2013-07~12
http://www.karachinews.net/index.php/sid/215731453/scat/8c3d7d78943a99c7

Karachi News - Sino-Pak relations: strengths and pitfalls

The oft-heard poetic flourishes indulged in by the officials of these Asian neighbors to describe their friendship were duly repeated during the five-day visit that concluded on Monday. Relations between China and Pakistan were built on the foundation of their shared hostility towards India, but evolved with the changing regional and global dynamics.

India has risen to be an economic giant and successfully sold itself as the largest democracy in the world. Both China and Pakistan are keen to normalize relations with India. This has shifted the focus of their energies to realizing the economic potential of their strategic partnership. Even their defense cooperation, such as joint building of JF-17 aircraft and transfer of technology, sometimes has an economic dimension.

Pakistan could make profits by manufacturing and selling this light aircraft to meet smaller countries' defense needs. China is interested in developing Pakistan's mineral resources-mainly concentrated in Balochistan province and developing alternative routes for its trade and energy imports through Pakistan. Islamabad, for its part, is keen to avail this opportunity to become a regional trade corridor, linking China to Central Asia and to the Arabian Sea.

Pakistan's deep sea Gwadar Port is located near the strategic Strait of Hormuz through which 35 percent of world's petroleum sea trade emanating from the Persian Gulf passes. Rail and road links between Gwadar and Xinjang province of China that borders Pakistan could offer a far shorter route to Chinese trade and energy imports.

Currently, China's oil imports have to undertake a 12,000 km journey from the Middle East through shipping lanes guarded by the U.S. and its allies to reach seaports in eastern China. These imports have to make an additional inland journey to reach western provinces, which can be easily reached through Pakistan by developing the necessary infrastructure. Likewise, manufactured goods from China's interior first travel east to port cities and then make an onward journey through air or sea.

In addition to significantly cutting costs and reducing shipping time, inland route through a trusted neighbor provides a strategic advantage of avoiding a sea route through the Indian Ocean that is vulnerable to interruption by others, including India and the U.S. Gwadar has been viewed with suspicion in India for its potential to provide deep water berthing facilities to the Chinese navy. However, experts have dismissed this concern because any ship lodged at Gwadar would be vulnerable to attack by the Indian Air Force in the event of a conflict.

Pakistan awarded the contract for developing Gwadar Port to a Chinese firm in 2002, which started its operation in 2008. In February this year, the control of the port was transferred to the state-owned China Overseas Ports Holding Company Ltd, boosting prospects of increase in trade through Pakistan.

All is not hunky-dory, however. Balochistan province, on whose coastline Gwadar Port is located and through which the proposed trade route will pass, is undergoing an insurgency. The Baloch youth took up arms in the mid-2000s to protest decades of marginalization and expropriation of their resources. Their presence threatens any new projects in Balochistan.

In addition, Pakistan's massive energy crisis and fragile internal security situation do not augur well for expanded investment. Chinese personnel working on different projects have been attacked throughout Pakistan. The most recent loss was the killing of a Chinese tourist along nine other foreigners and their Pakistani guide at the base camp of Nanga Parbatin Pakistan's Northern Areas.In these circumstances, it seems, all grand plans would have to wait until Pakistan sorts out its internal problems.

Unrest among the Uighur Muslim minority largely based in western Xinjiang province is also a cause of deep concern for China. During his visit to China, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif was urged by the Chinese officials to crack down on Uighur insurgents who are believed to be hiding in Pakistan's northwest.

Earlier this year, media reports suggested that militants belonging to East Turkistan Islamic Movement, which wants to create a Muslim state out of Xinjiang, were being trained in Pakistan's North Waziristan tribal agency.

It is a sign of the strength of their relation that China and Pakistan have been able to reconcile their differing interests and not allow the issues of concern to create rifts. Chinese officials have always chosen to discuss thorny issues behind closed doors and not embarrass Pakistan publicly for its many failings, quite unlike the U.S., whose officials are not averse to public bashing of Pakistan. Nevertheless, Pakistan would need to contribute meaningfully to maintain this longtime friendship. In his final address before leaving China, Nawaz Sharif recognized that Pakistan needs to take care of its energy crisis and curb militancy before any grand economic plan could take off.

The views expressed in the above article are that of Ishrat Saleem. The writer is a freelance journalist based in Washington, D.C. She can be reached at isaleem@syr.edu By Ishrat Saleem(ANI)
Islamabad, Mar. 21 (ANI): Ahead of the Pakistan Day celebrations on March 23, security has been stepped up in twin cities with the police launching search and combing operations.
Based on ...
Karachi, Mar.21 (ANI): Following Pakistan's heart wrenching defeat at the hands of arch-rival India in the World T20 clash at Eden Gardens, Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) chairman Shahryar Khan has ...
Islamabad, Mar. 21 (ANI): Pakistan's Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) Rabita Committee Deputy Convener, Shahid Pasha, has been arrested by Rangers personnel in a raid on Monday.
"Rangers arrested MQM ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): After wooing her fans with the snaps of herself smeared in Holi colours while celebrating India's win over Pakistan in the T20, newlywed Preity Zinta is back with a new set ...
Kolkata, Mar.20 (ANI): After suffering a two-wicket defeat at the hands of India in their World T20 match at the Eden Gardens, Pakistan all-rounder Shoaib Malik has highlighted that the batting ...
Islamabad, Mar. 20 (ANI): Pakistan Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Ahsan Iqbal has said that three universities being established on the western route of the China-Pakistan Economic ...
Islamabad, Mar. 20 (ANI): Pakistan today released 86 Indian fishermen, who were held for trespassing into its territorial waters officials said.
"We released 86 more Indian fishermen today," the ...
New Delhi, Mar.20 (ANI): The Met Department on Sunday issued an avalanche warning for the next 24 hours in the upper reaches areas of Kashmir advising people not to venture in these areas.
'Medium ...
Islamabad, Mar. 20 (ANI): The Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) lawmakers will protest against the federal government's decision to lift the travel ban against former president Pervez Musharraf during ...
New Delhi, Mar.20 (ANI): The Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led side received flurry of wishes from the cricketing fraternity after they trounced arch-rival Pakistan by six wickets in their World T20 clash at ...
New Delhi, Mar.20 (ANI): Legendry cricketer Sachin Tendulkar has extended his gratitude to Indian batting mainstay Virat Kohli for his match-winning knock during his side's six-wicket win over ...
New Delhi. Mar. 20 (ANI): Bollywood's dimpled beauty Preity Zinta has recently marked India's World T20 victory by attending a holi party on the beach.
The 41-year-old actress, who was spotted ...
Kolkata, Mar.19 (ANI): It was once again India's premier batsman Virat Kohli who stood tall as Pakistan's India jinx continued at the World Cup with the hosts thrashing the arch-rival by six wickets ...
Kolkata - Cool-headed Virat Kohli scored an unbeaten half century as India
cruised to a comfortable six-wicket victory over arch rivals Pakistan at
Kolkata's Eden Gardens in the World Twenty20 ...
Police in Pakistan's port city of Karachi say a security guard has shot dead an 11-year-old boy who was wearing a "monster mask." They said the boy sneaked up on the guard in an attempt to scare ...
Islamabad, March 21 (IANS) Pakistan Navy (PN) warship, PNS ASLAT, has reached the French island of La Reunion to participate in a drill, the media reported on Monday. According to a PN statement on ...
Karachi, Mar. 20 (ANI): Pakistan's Ambassador to the United Nations, Maleeha Lodhi, has said Islamabad is determined to achieve gender equality and empower women as part of the United Nations ...
New Delhi, March 20 (IANS) It was time both India and Pakistan realised that they have a common enemy -- terrorism --and they need to fight it together, Pakistani-Canadian cleric Tahirul Qadri said ...
New York, Mar. 20 (ANI): Pakistan Day will for the first time be celebrated at the United Nations as a concert in the general assembly hall on March 23.
The event has been organised by the Pakistan ...
Islamabad, March 20 (IANS) Pakistan's Sindh province has declared a public holiday on March 24 as a public holiday to mark the occasion of Holi - a religious festival of the Hindu community, the ...
Karachi News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Karachi the largest and the most populous city of Pakistan, presents an interesting and colourful combination of the old and new. The narrow twisting lanes and alleys of the old city throb with life alongside wide metalled road and elegant modern building. Within the city, talented artisans with age-old skills produce handicrafts of exquisite beauty.
Karachi offers a variety of pleasant attractions, wide sunny beaches deep-sea fishing. yachting, golf and horseracing, all year round. Its restaurants cater to a wide choice of Pakistani and Western cuisines. Its markets and bazaars offer an endless variety of exciting shopping, including indigenous handicrafts. Particularly rugs and carpets of rare designs and beauty.
The law to protect whistleblowers from unfair treatment by their employers came into force a decade ago. But the experience since then has shown that the law is useless in ...
Barack Obama’s March 21-22 visit to Cuba is undoubtedly an historic moment, as it marks the first time in 88 years that a sitting American president has set foot on the island. But ...
Hopes for change have been aroused by Barack Obama’s history-making visit to Cuba, the first by a U.S. president since that small island-nation’s revolution established the first ...
that is perhaps the most recognized symbol of Japan and its reverence and respect for nature. Another tradition deserves its place in Japan’s storytelling to the world: Ise Jingu (officially ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
CAIRO, Egypt - Egypt’s Interior Ministry has claimed that the death toll from a mortar attack has risen to 15. The ministry pointed out that all the victims are policemen, including three ...
PRETORIA, South Africa— South Africa’s ruling party, the African National Congress, on Sunday said it had full confidence in President Jacob Zuma in the wake of mounting allegations of political ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
LONDON/NEW YORK - US business research provider IHS Inc. is to buy market-data firm Markit to create a $13 billion London-based data and business research provider. The deal joins a wave of ...
© 1999 - 2016 Karachi News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)