2013-07~12
http://www.womenofchina.cn/html/womenofchina/report/165922-1.htm

Unite Women of All Ethnic Groups and Work for a Beautiful Xinjiang - All China Women's Federation
Xasiyet Eli (M) was appointed in April 2012 president of Xinjiang Women's Federation. [Women of China English Monthly April 2013 Issue]
Before she was appointed in April 2012 president of Xinjiang Women's Federation, Xasiyet Eli had worked in University for more than 30 years. She recently told Women of China English Monthly that she initially had a hard time adjusting to her responsibilities as federation president. Over time, though, the job got easier and she began to enjoy her work, mainly because the federation helped people in need. "I could help a lot of people," says Eli. 

As a deputy to the 12th National People's Congress (NPC), Eli arrived in Beijing at the beginning of March. This reporter interviewed Eli on the sidelines of the NPC session. "On behalf of 11 million women in Xinjiang, I feel very excited. I felt the pressure when I was elected NPC deputy. I will carry out my responsibilities and report to the session the issues about which the people in Xinjiang are concerned," Eli said. 

The following is the interview with Eli, in question-and-answer format: 

Women of China (WOC): What has impressed you the most since you were appointed president of Xinjiang Women's Federation last year? What is your understanding of the federation's work? 

Eli: Since I was appointed president of Xinjiang Women's Federation, I have realized that the CPC Party committee and the government of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region think highly of the federation's work, and they support the federation's work, all efforts and at all levels. There are 14 prefectures and more than 80 counties in Xinjiang. The federation's work reaches every corner of the autonomous region, including every village. In addition to the federation's efforts, all departments of the government have made efforts to advance women and children's development based on the Program of Women and Children's Development. 

The women's federation has won the support of the CPC Party committee and government of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, through policies and funding, to protect women and children's rights and to enhance women and children's development. Also, the federation has reported the issues that most concern women and children to the Party committee and the government for their consideration. In this way, the women's federation has served as a bridge that has connected women and children to the government. 

The federation's work is like a subject that we must study; first, we have to face reality and make more of an effort to study every issue that affects women and/or children. Second, we need to conduct more research into the status quo of grass-roots women and children then we can help and speak on behalf of the women and children. When I visited grass-roots women, they passionately shook hands with me, they embraced me and they posed for pictures with me. Initially, I was unwilling to do so, because I wanted to keep low profile. Later, I realized, as a leader of the federation, I must encourage those women whenever they make progress. I love my work much more than before. 
As I reflect on my work in the last year, I think, politically, the women's federation should steer its work in the right direction, concentrate on economic development and serve the overall interests of the country. As such, the federation, and its efforts, will receive greater attention and support from the government of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. We have promoted the program of Small-sum Credit Loans for Women by issuing a combined 14.1 billion yuan (US $2.2 billion) in loans. We have also promoted the program of Beautiful Xinjiang Women. Both programs were implemented smoothly, and that gave us greater confidence. 
Second, the federation can attract more women, but only if it establishes relations with more and more women from all walks of life. 
Third, the federation is a "people's organization." It should search for new ways to serve the people, and it should take advantage of all social resources, then the federation will be more creative in providing community services. 
Establishment of the petitioning (an administrative system designed to receive complaints from the public through letters and phone calls) and rights-protection systems, in addition to paying greater attention to the overall interests of women and children while advancing the program of Women and Children's Development, has helped the federation accomplish more in women's affairs. 
Fourth, as the "women's home, the federation can win women's respect and support only if it helps to improve people's lives, and if it does its best to serve grass-roots women. 

WOC: What will be the federation's main focus in 2013? 
Eli: In 2013, the women's federation will comprehensively implement the spirit of the 18th CPC National Congress, held in November of last year, and the spirit of the fourth plenary meeting of the eighth CPC Congress of Xinjiang. 

The federation will put more emphasis on the basic State policy of gender equality, on educating women from all ethnic groups about patriotism, on reporting women's demands to the government of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, on protecting women and children's rights, and on improving the federation's role as "women's home." 

The federation will unite women from all ethnic groups to build a moderately prosperous society, in all respects, by 2020. First, the federation will comprehensively implement the spirit of the 18th CPC National Congress and educate women, from all ethnic groups, about patriotism. Second, the federation will publicize the basic State policy of gender equality. Third, the federation will enhance the development of women, in both urban and rural areas, and unite women from all ethnic groups to work for the economic development of society. Fourth, the federation will maintain close ties with women and promote more programs in favor of women and children. Fifth, the federation will participate in community services, and it will create new ways to deliver the services. It will do more to protect women and children's rights. Sixth, the federation will improve its organizational structure and the work styles. Seventh, the federation will carefully prepare the 11th Congress of Women in Xinjiang, and it will promote the scientific development of both women's and the federation's work. 

WOC：The government of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region adopted the program of Beautiful Xinjiang Women in 2011. What has been the progress of this program? 
Eli：The program, Beautiful Xinjiang Women, was one of 22 programs adopted by the government in 2011 in an effort to improve the lives of Xinjiang's residents. The program's purpose is to establish several famous brands in various women-related industries — such as cosmetics, garments, ornaments and health products — with policy and financial support from government. The program is expected to provide job opportunities, and greater income, to women in Xinjiang. 

The program, Beautiful Xinjiang Women, is being carried out mainly in agricultural and pastoral areas. It is helping women improve their capabilities and appearances. 

So far, it has succeeded in establishing brands, and local women have welcomed the program. Much of the program's funding has been spent in rural areas. An increasing number of local women have been participating in the program.
Please understand that womenofchina.cn,a non-profit, information-communication website, cannot reach every writer before using articles and images. For copyright issues, please contact us by emailing: website@womenofchina.cn. The articles published and opinions expressed on this website represent the opinions of writers and are not necessarily shared by womenofchina.cn. 
Copyright 2005-2014 All rights reserved. Women's Foreign Language Publications of China.  Email: website@womenofchina.cn