2013-07~12
http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/fiery-suv-crash-in-tiananmen-square-may-have-been-protest-by-ethnic-uighurs/2013/10/29/cc6f2372-4086-11e3-a624-41d661b0bb78_story.html

Fiery SUV crash in Tiananmen Square may have been suicide attack by ethnic Uighurs - The Washington Post
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
BEIJING — Authorities were investigating Tuesday whether ethnic minorities from China’s troubled Xinjiang region were involved in a fiery vehicle crash in Tiananmen Square the day before that killed at least five people.
In a notice sent to hotels in Beijing, police ordered hotel staff to search for “suspicious” guests and vehicles related to Monday’s incident and specifically named two residents from counties in western China’s Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, according to state media and reports quoting hotel staff.
The two men appeared to have Uighur names, which are markedly distinct from Han Chinese names.
Uighurs, a predominantly Muslim ethnic minority, have clashed repeatedly and violently with authorities in Xinjiang in recent years. Their possible involvement in Monday’s incident — in which an SUV veered into a crowd in the iconic square, then crashed and burst into flames — indicates that the crash may have been a deliberately staged effort to protest Chinese rule.
For years, many Uighurs have agitated against the ethnic Chinese population and China’s authoritarian government — a reaction, Uighur groups say, to oppressive government policies and widespread discrimination. Ethnic rioting and bloody clashes reached a peak four years ago, causing more than 200 deaths and resulting in even stricter policies.
Reached by phone Tuesday, a government spokesman in Xinjiang confirmed that officials there are working with Beijing police on the investigation but declined to talk about the case in detail.
The state-controlled Global Times newspaper quoted Zhu Yan, an officer with the Beijing police, as confirming the authenticity of the notice to hotels. Some hotel staff also said they had received such a notice.
Beijing police declined to comment on the specifics of the investigation.
The SUV burst through the security barriers lining the square and drove through a crowd of pedestrians before slamming into one of the stone bridges leading to the former imperial palace known as the Forbidden City, Beijing police said on their official microblog.
The vehicle ignited not far from an imposing portrait of Mao Zedong, communist China’s founding father, which hangs from the ancient, red-painted Tiananmen Gate.
All three occupants of the vehicle were killed, along with two pedestrians. At least 38 people were injured. Within minutes, police flooded Tiananmen Square, which remains China’s most sensitive public area after a deadly crackdown on pro-democracy protesters there in 1989.
World Uyghur Congress president Rebiya Kadeer said in a statement, “The Chinese government will not hesitate to concoct a version of the incident in Beijing, so as to further impose repressive measures on the Uyghur people.”
Beijing police declined to comment on the specifics of the investigation.
Hundreds of social media posts about the crash were deleted, images posted to the Internet were removed and Web searches about the incident were blocked. There was no mention of the deaths or the crash on the evening news.
At a news briefing Tuesday, a spokeswoman for China’s Foreign Ministry declined to comment on the crash but defended the government’s governance of the Xinjiang region.
“We admit that there are some violent and terrorist cases in Xinjiang. We believe that any government would crack down on such incidents to ensure the safety and security of society and the property and lives of people,” spokeswoman Hua Chunying said.
We will update you when news breaks about the virus.
Success! Check your inbox for details. You might also like:
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses!
Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games!
Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve.