2013-07~12
http://www.theguardian.com/news/blog/2008/dec/25/china

China's momentous 2008: the year in video | News | The Guardian


Thursday 25 December 2008 06.11 EST


Last modified on Friday 29 January 2016 11.35 EST


The famed Chinese curse "May you live in interesting times" is apocryphal; but perhaps it should have been coined for 2008. Both China's citizens and outside observers thought the year would be dominated by the Olympics. Instead, it began with the heaviest snowstorms for decades and ended with an economic crisis seeing mass layoffs. In between, came the worst ethnic unrest in many years and the terrible earthquake in Sichuan, which claimed as many as 90,000 lives.
No one could have predicted the year's biggest news stories, but my prescient colleague Jonathan Watts warned that the country could face a tough 12 months after the record-breaking growth of 2007.
Migrant workers were already struggling to get home for New Year celebrations as blizzards paralysed rail lines and devastated crops.
In Tibet, the worst riots in Lhasa for almost 20 years exploded without warning in March, apparently following the suppression of peaceful protests by monks. Vicious ethnic violence was vividly documented in eyewitness accounts (although rumours of the death toll appeared to have been vastly inflated in the chaos).
With the authorities cracking down as unrest spread into other Tibetan areas, we arrived in Gansu province amid protests and tear gas.
The authorities were swift to complain of western media bias. But reporting the full story was impossible when the government had chosen to close off the entire area. Jonathan spent a frustrating week and clocked up 6,000 miles as he attempted to find out what was happening – only to be turned back time and again by security forces.
Polarised reactions to the events in Tibet created a rift between China and the west which was largely healed for the saddest of reasons: May's terrible 7.9 magnitude shock, which brought a wave of sympathy from around the globe.
In Beichuan, we witnessed moment of hope as a young survivor was pulled from the wreckage after several days. It was hard to rejoice when the bodies of his classmates surrounded us.
Travelling through the disaster zone it became clear that the school in Beichuan was just one of many which collapsed in the disaster. In Mianzhu, we watched as parents angrily confronted education officials, blaming shoddy construction. Weeks later, they would still be demanding answers – and facing increasing pressure from authorities in response.
Days before the Olympics opened, assailants killed 16 policemen in the restive north-western region of Xinjiang, in what appears to have been the deadliest attack by militants in China for a decade.
The authorities were swift to blame Uighur separatists and more attacks would follow in the next few days. Two Uighur men were sentenced to death for the crime in December, although inconsistencies in the official account have emerged.
Finally, we saw why seven years of meticulous preparations were required as Beijing unveiled its extraordinary opening ceremony and its citizens celebrated.
But there was no space for those who wanted to protest instead and ITV reporter John Ray was briefly detained while covering a demonstration by Students for a Free Tibet.
Chinese citizens who applied to have their say in specially designated zones fared worse – such as the 79-year-old Mrs Wu and her 77-year-old neighbour Mrs Wang.
In September, the Foreign Ministry allowed the Guardian to visit Tibet – a rare event for overseas media. Six months on from the protests, a heavy security presence remained.
Only one month after the Olympics, more bad news: babies were dying because they had been drinking milk powder tainted with melamine. To the outrage of citizens across the country, it emerged that local officials had covered up the problem. Almost 300,000 infants were affected by the scandal.
This autumn, the chill winds of the world's economic crisis reached Chinese shores, leaving millions jobless. As the year ends, celebrations of the 30th anniversary of its economic reforms – which have lifted hundreds of millions out of poverty – are muted by the outlook for 2009. The country will enter this new year with rather more trepidation than the last.
Sign in
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.


We’re doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
