2013-07~12
http://ajw.asahi.com/article/asia/AJ201310310086

Chinese police block way to hometown of suspect in deadly crash - AJW by The Asahi Shimbun
SHANSHAN, China--Authorities tightened security in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region and blocked entry to a township that is home to a suspect in the deadly vehicle crash near Beijing’s landmark Tiananmen Gate.
Seven police officers were seen on Oct. 30 examining vehicles on a mountain road in Shanshan county. The checkpoint was a 30-minute drive from the registered address of the suspect named by the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau.
After examining a passport, one officer said in a harsh tone: “I see you are a journalist. We are pursuing a suspect and cannot permit you to go ahead anymore. Turn back.”
When asked for information about the suspect, the officer only replied: “I cannot say. We have to follow our working regulations.”
Further questions from the Asahi reporter resulted in orders for her to return to her vehicle and turn around.
The reporter tried to enter Lukqun from another route but was again turned away by police.
The police also demanded that the reporter delete the pictures she took at the checkpoint.
The Lukqun suspect--one of eight people wanted by the security bureau--is believed to have been involved in the incident on Oct. 28 at Tiananmen Gate. The vehicle hit a crowd, crashed and caught fire, killing the three occupants inside and two bystanders.
Chinese authorities and media have described the incident as a terrorist attack by Muslim fundamentalists from the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region.
According to the online edition of the state-run Xinhua News Agency, Uighurs account for nearly 90 percent of Lukqun township’s population of 32,000, while Han Chinese make up 10 percent.
In late June, 35 people, including two police officers, were killed in riots in the township, according to Xinhua.
In June 2009, Han Chinese killed Uighur workers in Guangdong province, sparking a wave of violence the following month that left nearly 2,000 dead or injured in Urumqi, the capital of the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region.
Uighurs say they continue to face discrimination and are underrepresented in government because of their culture and ethnicity.
A 25-year-old Uighur woman who runs a clothing shop in her home county of Shanshan in the region said she sought employment in Urumqi after graduating from a technical college there.
“I could not find a job, and I thought it was due to discrimination against the Uighurs,” the woman said.
A 24-year-old Uighur employee at a pharmacy in Shanshan said things have gotten worse since the violence in 2009.
“After the 2009 Urumqi disturbance, my Han Chinese friends drifted away from me,” she said.
A Han Chinese woman who has lived in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region since she was 3 said she believes the two sides will never resolve their differences.
“The Uighurs believe the Han Chinese deprived them of their lands,” said the 53-year-old woman, who runs an electronics store in Shanshan. “It will be 100 percent impossible for Han Chinese and Uighur people to make up.”
Chinese police would not let an Asahi Shimbun reporter past this checkpoint in Shanshan county in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region on Oct. 30. She was trying to reach Lukqun township, where one of eight suspects of a fatal crash near Tiananmen Gate is from. (Kim Soon-hi)
Chinese tycoon and government critic silenced as microblog account closed
BEIJING--Chinese real estate tycoon Ren Zhiqiang’s Weibo microblog account was shut down on the orders of the Chinese government on Feb. 28 after he used it to criticize the state-run media’s policies.
China warns of widespread smog, Beijing issues second ‘red alert’
BEIJING--China warned residents across a large part of its north on Dec. 18 to prepare for a wave of choking smog arriving over the weekend, the worst of which is expected over Beijing, prompting the capital to issue its second ever "red alert."
Beijing issues 1st smog red alert, urging schools to close
BEIJING--Beijing issued its first-ever red alert for smog on Dec. 7, urging schools to close and invoking restrictions on factories and traffic that will keep half of the city's vehicles off the roads.
BEIJING--Schools in the Chinese capital kept students indoors and parents brought their kids to hospitals with breathing ailments on Dec. 1 as Beijing grappled with extremely severe air pollution for the fifth straight day.
BANGKOK--Thai authorities on Sept. 12 issued an arrest warrant for a 12th suspect in connection with last month's bombing at a Bangkok landmark that killed 20 people, identifying him as a 27-year-old ethnic Uighur from China.
Copyright The Asahi Shimbun Company. All rights reserved. No reproduction or republication without written permission.