2013-07~12
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/china-executes-eight-xinjiang-terrorism-charges

China executes eight in Xinjiang on terrorism charges | TODAYonline
HONG KONG — The authorities in Xinjiang, the ethnically-divided region in far western China, said it had executed eight people on charges related to separatist violence, including an attack last year in which a car ploughed through tourists near Tiananmen Square in Beijing and erupted in flames.
The executions were the latest in a succession of displays of might and resolve by the government, which is trying to extinguish increasingly violent discontent among Uighurs in Xinjiang, their homeland where they form a minority of the population.
Tianshan, the official news service for Xinjiang, said on Saturday that China’s highest court had in recent days approved the execution of eight people on charges stemming from five separate cases, and that the sentences had been carried out under the supervision of local courts. The report was widely publicised by state news media and accompanied by television footage that showed the suspects in handcuffs and shackles under interrogation.
The reports did not give the ethnicity of the executed men, but their distinctive names indicated that they were Uighur, a Turkic-speaking people who mostly follow Sunni Islam. Their crimes included “organising, leading and participating in a terror organisation; intentional homicide; arson; illegally making, storing and transporting explosives; and jeopardising public safety by dangerous means”, the Tianshan report showed.
Three of the men had masterminded an attack in October last year in which three bystanders died and 39 others were injured when a sport utility vehicle rammed through a crowd near Tiananmen Square before bursting into flames, said the official Xinhua news agency. Three people inside the vehicle also died.
The other prisoners executed included Rozi Eziz, who was convicted of seizing a gun in June last year and firing at two police officers in Aksu, Xinjiang, and Abdusalam Elim, who was found guilty of organising and leading a terrorist group and making explosives, Xinhua said.
The reports did not say when or how the death sentences were carried out.
Human rights groups and advocates of Uighur self-determination have argued that the government’s pervasive controls on Uighurs have exacerbated, rather than reduced, tensions in Xinjiang.
Many Uighurs resent the growing Han ethnic population in Xinjiang, as well as increasing government restrictions on their dress, religious life, travel and language.
Xinjiang came under Chinese Communist control in 1949 and ethnic tensions have risen in recent decades, especially since deadly violence in the regional capital of Urumqi in July 2009. Uighurs make up about 47 per cent of the region’s civilian population of about 22.3 million, while ethnic Han comprise about 38 per cent and the rest belong to other ethnicities, government estimates showed.