2013-07~12
http://www.theage.com.au/world/china-captures-terrorist-attack-suspects-20131030-2wh8x.html

China captures terrorist attack suspects
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News, My Clippings, My Comments and user settings.
Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
Five suspected Islamist militants have been caught for a 'terrorist attack' according to Chinese police.
The fiery car blaze at Tiananmen Square that killed five and injured dozens was a premeditated terrorist attack, Chinese police said on Wednesday after making five arrests in connection with the case.
The five suspects arrested, as well as the driver and two passengers that died in the blaze, were all identified with names that suggested they were ethnic Uighurs, a predominantly Muslim ethnic minority from China's restive far-western province of Xinjiang.
Police also found flags with jihadist and extremist religious messages, appearing to support early reports that the apparent suicide attack may have been a particularly audacious act of religious and political protest at the symbolic heart of the capital.

 Police cars block off the roads leading into Tiananmen Square as smoke rises into the air after a vehicle crashed in front of Tiananmen Gate on Monday. Photo: AFP

On Monday, a white four-wheel-drive veered off the road and onto a footpath, ploughing into crowds before bursting into flames in front of the main gate overlooking Tiananmen Square where the iconic portrait of Mao Zedong hangs.
Police said the driver, Usmen Hasan, and two passengers – his mother and wife – then set themselves and the car alight, killing all three on the spot.
Two pedestrians, a Filipino woman and a Chinese man, died from their injuries, and at least 40 have been reported injured.

 People watch from nearby Chang'an Avenue as smoke rises in front of the Tiananmen Gate on Monday. Photo: Reuters

Official news agency Xinhua said police found petrol and petrol containers, two machetes and metal rods in the burnt out car.
It also said the car, a white jeep, was registered with a number plate from China's far-western Xinjiang province, a region plagued with recent religious and ethnic violence involving Uighurs, a predominantly Muslim ethnic minority.
The three dead all had Uighur names, as did the five suspects who were arrested.
Knives and "jihad" flags were found on the five suspects, who were said to have been surprised at being caught so quickly.
"After preliminary investigation [the five suspects] confessed as to how they met the perpetrators ... and undertook violent terrorist activities," police said.
Beijing has blamed Uighur groups for what it calls terrorist attacks in Xinjiang, but details of alleged incidents are hard to confirm, and exile groups accuse China of exaggerating the threat to justify religious and cultural restrictions.
Chinese media reports had made no mention of nature of the investigation, with most focusing on the condition of the injured. Of the 40 injured, 12 remained in intensive care.
If confirmed to have been a deliberate attack by Uighur separatists, it would be the movement’s most audacious protest strike yet, hitting at the political heart of Beijing.
While there were no questions about their safety, President Xi Jinping and other senior government leaders were meeting at the Great Hall of the People just across the road.
Beijing has tightened security around other potential targets around the capital, and the main thoroughfare leading to Tiananmen Square remains swarming with armed police and armoured vans.
Xinjiang has been plagued with violent clashes between Uighurs and Han Chinese in recent years. In 2009, ethnic riots in the Xinjiang capital of Urumqi left nearly 200 dead.
The most recent outburst in June reportedly resulted in 35 dead after riots.
In the ensuing two months, police arrested 139 Uighurs suspected of spreading "jihad" online.
“We admit that there are some violent and terrorist cases in Xinjiang," Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a daily briefing. “We believe that any government would crack down on such incidents to ensure the safety and security of society and the property and lives of people.”
Ilham Tohti, an ethnic Uighur academic and critic of Chinese policy in Xinjiang, said Uighurs had been driven to take extreme measures by China's repression.
"The use of violent means happens because all other outlets for expression are gone. Uighurs do not have any representation, they have no means of self-expression," he told Reuters.
The Munich-based World Uighur Congress called for caution around the incident and said the Chinese government’s online censorship of the incident meant the public would “never hear a free and fair account of events”.

 Compare variable loan rates as low as 3.89% p.a. now

 All Galaxy S7 plans from all major telcos available now

 Grab a bargain on one of the year's best phones