2013-07~12
http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/final-three-uighur-prisoners-moved-from-us-military-prison-at-guantanamo-bay/2013/12/31/834c1eea-7220-11e3-8def-a33011492df2_story.html?wprss=rss_national

Final 3 Uighur prisoners moved from U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay - The Washington Post
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
The United States has transferred three Uighur Muslim detainees to Slovakia from the military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, U.S. officials said Tuesday. They were the last members of the ethnic minority from China to be held at the military prison.
The trio had languished at Guantanamo for more than a decade since their capture in Pakistan after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks — despite prior military assessments that they had no ties to al-Qaeda or the Taliban.
In 2008, a federal judge ruled that the Uighurs were being held unlawfully and ordered their release. Their transfer was delayed by legal wrangling and failed attempts to find a country willing to accept them.
The Pentagon described the transfer as a “significant milestone.” Eight other prisoners have been moved from the controversial detention facility since August, including two Saudis and two Algerians who returned to their countries in December. An additional 155 detainees remain.
President Obama last week reaffirmed his commitment to shutter the prison at Guantanamo, despite ongoing resistance from Republican lawmakers.
“The continued operation of the facility weakens our national security by draining resources, damaging our relationships with key allies and partners and emboldening violent extremists,” Obama said.
The detainees whose release was announced Tuesday were identified as Yusef Abbas, Saidullah Khalik and Hajiakbar Abdul Ghuper. They agreed to resettle in Slovakia, officials said.
Returning the detainees to China was not an option for the United States because of fears that they might be treated harshly. A senior U.S. military official said the Chinese have put tremendous pressure on countries in an effort to stop them from taking any of the Uighurs.
The official said that a deal was in place several weeks ago for the final three to go to Costa Rica, but that the Chinese learned about the secret discussions and scuttled any possible arrangement. The United States had been talking to Slovakia, a member of NATO, for a year about taking some of the Uighurs, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss diplomatic negotiations.
The Chinese Embassy in Washington did not immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.
Rear Adm. John Kirby, a Pentagon spokesman, said Slovakia’s decision to take the men was a “humanitarian gesture.” In a statement, he thanked the country for its “willingness to support U.S. efforts to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facility.”
Clifford Sloan, the State Department’s special envoy working toward closure of Guantanamo, said 22 Uighurs from Guantanamo have been resettled to six countries.
Military detainee files disclosed by the anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks indicate that in 2004 the men posed a medium risk to U.S. interests if they were released and were “vulnerable to future recruitment by terrorist groups.”
The files say they were “probable” members of the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a separatist group in China.
This is not the first time Slovakia has agreed to accept detainees from Guantanamo. In January 2010, the country took three detainees from Egypt, Tunisia and Azerbaijan, according to the military official.
One of them, Adel Fattough Ali al Gazzar, later left Slovakia and traveled to his native Egypt, where he was arrested in June 2011.
U.S. officials suspected he had ties to an Egyptian terrorist group called Al Wa’ad that was behind a plot to kill then-President Hosni Mubarak and raised money for militants in Chechyna.
Reprieve, a human rights organization based in Britain, said Gazzar was being held on bogus charges.
The former detainee from Azerbaijan, Az Polad Sabir Oglu Sirajov, remained in Slovakia, while Rafik al-Hami of Tunisia returned to his native country.
We will update you when news breaks about the virus.
Success! Check your inbox for details. You might also like:
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses!
Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games!
Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve.