2013-07~12
http://www.presstv.ir/detail/2013/12/31/342902/uyghurs-want-probe-on-china-killings/

PressTV


 The secretary general of Hezbollah says Saudi Arabia and Turkey are disrupting the progress toward a political solution for Syria.
 



 Three people have been arrested by the US over evasion of sanctions imposed on Iran, a report says.
 



 President Barack Obama says US embargo on Cuba will eventually end because it has served the interests of neither the Americans nor the Cubans. 
 



 Syria’s ambassador to the UN says talks about the future of President Bashar Assad do not deserve to be responded to.
 



 The Israeli regime is planning to confiscate nearly 1.2 sq km of Palestinian land in the occupied West Bank. 
 



 GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump has finally unveiled the list of his foreign policy and national security advisers.
 



 UN expert on human rights in the occupied Palestinian lands resigns over Israel’s non-cooperation.
 



 Saudi aerial attacks kill nearly a dozen civilians in the northern Yemeni province of Jawf. 
 



 Erdogan vows to do anything in his power to curb one of the biggest waves of terrorism in Turkey’s history.
 



 Russia warns the US that it may resort to the use of force against those parties violating the ceasefire in Syria.
 



 Iranians all across the world are celebrating the Persian New Year.
 



 People in the besieged Gaza Strip have rallied to voice support for Palestinians who are held under difficult conditions in Israeli jails. 
 



 The anti-Israeli movement Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions has been scoring one victory after another against Tel Aviv's expansionist policies. 
 



 US rejects Russia’s call for emergency meeting over Syria ceasefire violations 
 



 Toronto Raptors have defeated the visiting Orlando Magic 105-100 at the Air Canada Center. 
 



 Hillary Clinton said in a speech to AIPAC that Iran still posed a threat to Israel and needed to be closely watched.
 



 An American political analyst says much of what we are seeing in the US is reminiscent of Germany in the 1930’s.
 



 An American writer says the hypocritical United States sees genocide in others' actions, not its own.

 



 Bernie Sanders’ comments are too little and maybe too late as Donald Trump’s rise overshadows politics-as-usual in the US, American writer says.
 



 Assailants reportedly set fire to the home of a key witness to the deadly July 2015 Israeli arson attack that killed a Palestinian baby.
 



 The Earth Hour sees non-essential lights shut off every year in a symbolic move to raise awareness about climate change.
 



 US President Barack Obama says Washington recognizes Iran’s “right to peaceful nuclear energy” in his Nowruz message.
 



 A decision by the Asian Football Confederation for teams from Iran and Saudi Arabia to play in a third country is “politicized,” an Iranian official says.
 



 Iran will officially move clocks forward by one hour at midnight on Sunday, March 20, to observe DST.
 



 This edition of "The Debate" is about Washington and Moscow's approach towards the ongoing ceasefire in Syria. 
 



 This program is about the devastating impact of war on the Syrian economy.
 



 Nowruz is the traditional Iranian festival of spring which starts at the exact astronomical start of the spring.
 



 This edition of The Debate is about the US antagonistic policies toward Iran. 
 



 Donald Trump is inching closer to clinching the republican presidential nomination. But things aren't very good for the Republicans. 
 



 This episode of The Debate discusses how Turkey's support for terrorism has caused the recent attacks there.
 
