2013-07~12
http://www.neurope.eu/article/two-men-sentenced-death-involvement-terrorist-activities-china

Two men sentenced to death for involvement in terrorist activities in China
They were involved in a controversial incident last April that resulted in the death of 21 people
Two men allegedly involved in a “terrorist group” have been sentenced to death and three more have been jailed over a clash in China’s Xinjiang region that left 21 people dead last April.
According to officials, the incident that took place on 23 April in a town in Kashgar prefecture was planned by a “terrorist group”. However, other sources indicate that this was not the case and that the clashes were triggered by ethnic tensions in the region. Fifteen officials or security personnel were among those killed in the incident.
The two men sentenced to death by Kashgar’s Intermediate People’s Court on murder and terrorism charges were named in state media as Musa Hesen, the co-founder of the “terrorist group”, and Rehman Hupur. Three other men were jailed for terms ranging from nine years to life.
As Xinhua news agency reported, the group had been “carrying out illegal religious activities (and) promoting religious extremism”. They had also “made 10 explosive devices and carried out explosive tests.”
Nevertheless, Xinjiang is home to the Muslim Uighur minority, who account for 45% of the region’s population but feel marginalized. As a result, the authorities often blame violent incidents on Uighur extremists seeking autonomy for the region. On the other hand, Uighur activists accuse the Chinese state of exaggerating in order to justify oppressing the minority.
As far as the events of the clash last April are concerned, Chinese reports said the violence was sparked when three officials saw suspicious behaviour at a house. However, according to the BBC, the violence involved a local family who had a dispute with officials who wanted the men to shave their beards and the women to stop wearing full veils.