2013-07~12
http://www.karachinews.net/index.php/sid/215682146/scat/8c3d7d78943a99c7

Karachi News - Pakistan to boost cooperation with China

The cooperation achievements made by Pakistan and China's Guangdong province reflect the profound friendship between people of the two nations, reported Xinhua citing Sharif while visiting the province.

On this occasion, provincial governor Zhu Xiaodan said Guangdong is willing to boost bilateral trade and two-way investment, and promote cooperation in the fields of power industry, infrastructure construction, tourism and agriculture with Pakistan.

The province, said Zhu, will put in more efforts to support the development of Kashgar in Xinjiang Uygur Region, which contribute to the construction of an economic corridor between the two countries.
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): After wooing her fans with the snaps of herself smeared in Holi colours while celebrating India's win over Pakistan in the T20, newlywed Preity Zinta is back with a new set ...
Islamabad, Mar. 20 (ANI): Pakistan Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Ahsan Iqbal has said that three universities being established on the western route of the China-Pakistan Economic ...
Islamabad, Mar. 20 (ANI): Pakistan today released 86 Indian fishermen, who were held for trespassing into its territorial waters officials said.
"We released 86 more Indian fishermen today," the ...
New Delhi, Mar.20 (ANI): The Met Department on Sunday issued an avalanche warning for the next 24 hours in the upper reaches areas of Kashmir advising people not to venture in these areas.
'Medium ...
Islamabad, Mar. 20 (ANI): The Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) lawmakers will protest against the federal government's decision to lift the travel ban against former president Pervez Musharraf during ...
New Delhi, Mar 20 (ANI): Things might not have worked out between the former couple Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma, but that doesn't mean she will stop wishing good for the cricketer.
As per a ...
Mohali, Mar.21 (ANI): After suffering a heart wrenching two-wicket defeat against arch-rival India in World T20 at the Eden Gardens, Pakistan T20 skipper Shahid Afridi on Monday called on his side ...
Karachi, Mar.21 (ANI): Pakistan all-rounder Shahid Afridi is likely to be sacked from the post of T20 skipper after the conclusion of the ongoing World T20 in India.
The news comes in the wake of ...
Karachi, Mar.21 (ANI): Following Pakistan's heart wrenching defeat at the hands of arch-rival India in the World T20 clash at Eden Gardens, Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) chairman Shahryar Khan has ...
Kolkata, Mar.20 (ANI): After suffering a two-wicket defeat at the hands of India in their World T20 match at the Eden Gardens, Pakistan all-rounder Shoaib Malik has highlighted that the batting ...
New Delhi, Mar.20 (ANI): The Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led side received flurry of wishes from the cricketing fraternity after they trounced arch-rival Pakistan by six wickets in their World T20 clash at ...
New Delhi, Mar.20 (ANI): Legendry cricketer Sachin Tendulkar has extended his gratitude to Indian batting mainstay Virat Kohli for his match-winning knock during his side's six-wicket win over ...
Police in Pakistan's port city of Karachi say a security guard has shot dead an 11-year-old boy who was wearing a "monster mask." They said the boy sneaked up on the guard in an attempt to scare ...
Islamabad, March 21 (IANS) Pakistan Navy (PN) warship, PNS ASLAT, has reached the French island of La Reunion to participate in a drill, the media reported on Monday. According to a PN statement on ...
Islamabad, March 20 (IANS) Pakistan's Sindh province has declared a public holiday on March 24 as a public holiday to mark the occasion of Holi - a religious festival of the Hindu community, the ...
Karachi, Mar. 20 (ANI): Pakistan's Ambassador to the United Nations, Maleeha Lodhi, has said Islamabad is determined to achieve gender equality and empower women as part of the United Nations ...
New Delhi, March 20 (IANS) It was time both India and Pakistan realised that they have a common enemy -- terrorism --and they need to fight it together, Pakistani-Canadian cleric Tahirul Qadri said ...
New York, Mar. 20 (ANI): Pakistan Day will for the first time be celebrated at the United Nations as a concert in the general assembly hall on March 23.
The event has been organised by the Pakistan ...
SHARJAH, 20th March, 2016 (WAM) -- H.H. Dr. Sheikh Sultan bin Mohammed Al Qasimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Sharjah today attended a session during the fifth International Government ...
Daikin Air-conditioning India has renewed its sponsorship deal with Delhi Daredevils for the second year in a row for the Indian Premier league to start from April ...
Karachi News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Karachi the largest and the most populous city of Pakistan, presents an interesting and colourful combination of the old and new. The narrow twisting lanes and alleys of the old city throb with life alongside wide metalled road and elegant modern building. Within the city, talented artisans with age-old skills produce handicrafts of exquisite beauty.
Karachi offers a variety of pleasant attractions, wide sunny beaches deep-sea fishing. yachting, golf and horseracing, all year round. Its restaurants cater to a wide choice of Pakistani and Western cuisines. Its markets and bazaars offer an endless variety of exciting shopping, including indigenous handicrafts. Particularly rugs and carpets of rare designs and beauty.
The law to protect whistleblowers from unfair treatment by their employers came into force a decade ago. But the experience since then has shown that the law is useless in ...
Barack Obama’s March 21-22 visit to Cuba is undoubtedly an historic moment, as it marks the first time in 88 years that a sitting American president has set foot on the island. But ...
Hopes for change have been aroused by Barack Obama’s history-making visit to Cuba, the first by a U.S. president since that small island-nation’s revolution established the first ...
that is perhaps the most recognized symbol of Japan and its reverence and respect for nature. Another tradition deserves its place in Japan’s storytelling to the world: Ise Jingu (officially ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
CAIRO, Egypt - Egypt’s Interior Ministry has claimed that the death toll from a mortar attack has risen to 15. The ministry pointed out that all the victims are policemen, including three ...
PRETORIA, South Africa— South Africa’s ruling party, the African National Congress, on Sunday said it had full confidence in President Jacob Zuma in the wake of mounting allegations of political ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
LONDON/NEW YORK - US business research provider IHS Inc. is to buy market-data firm Markit to create a $13 billion London-based data and business research provider. The deal joins a wave of ...
© 1999 - 2016 Karachi News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)