2013-07~12
http://ajw.asahi.com/article/asia/AJ201310300069

China seeks tips on suspected accomplices in fatal crash at Tiananmen Gate - AJW by The Asahi Shimbun
BEIJING--Chinese authorities are searching for suspected accomplices and threatening a further crackdown over what has been labeled a suicide attack linked to unrest in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, sources said.
The Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau called for tips on eight people by listing their names, ID card numbers and permanent domiciles in an Oct. 29 notice called “Emergency instruction 1028 serious incident,” according to sources at hotels in Beijing.
Three people died when the four-wheel-drive vehicle they were in plowed into a crowd near Tiananmen Gate in the capital before ramming a nearby structure and bursting into flames on Oct. 28. Two bystanders were killed and nearly 40 were injured.
It was not clear if the occupants of the vehicle were among those on the public security bureau’s list.
Seven of the suspects are from the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, and one person’s permanent domicile is unknown.
Seven names indicate they are members of ethnic minority groups, but the other name is also common among Han Chinese, who account for more than 90 percent of the Chinese population.
The photos of three Uighur men and four Uighur women in the notice were sent to officials at airports and other facilities. The pictures also found their way onto China’s Weibo microblogging service.
One suspect’s home address is listed in Lukqun in the eastern part of the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region. In June, 35 people were killed in attacks against police stations and other facilities in the township by a group armed with knives in Lukqun.
The Hong Kong-based Information Center for Human Rights and Democracy said Oct. 29 that one of the three people in the vehicle was a relative of a person shot by Chinese authorities during the Lukqun riots in June.
The organization described the crash at Tiananmen Gate as a suicide attack in retaliation against authorities.
The incident in Beijing has already heightened tensions in the predominantly Uighur region, an area of continuing strife between the Chinese government centered on Han Chinese and Muslim Uighurs.
On Oct. 29, the Xinjiang Daily, the mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist Party's regional arm, carried an opinion piece on the front page that jumped to Page 2, stating the region will “resist the spread of religious fundamentalism resolutely.”
It said Muslim fundamentalism seeping into the region poses a threat to social stability, and that acts of extremism go against the Islamic teaching of tolerance and coexistence.
Before the vehicle crashed at Tiananmen Gate, the Chinese government raised the level of a campaign to “alert” over what it called an increasingly armed threat posed by Uighur rebels.
The U.S. government-affiliated Radio Free Asia said Oct. 24 that public security authorities waged a cleanup operation aimed at “separatists” in Kashgar prefecture in the western part of the region.
More than 15 Uighurs were killed and about 100 were detained during the three-week operation that began in September. Authorities said they had obtained information about a plot to blow up local police buildings and other facilities during holidays celebrating the founding of the nation in October, according to the Radio Free Asia report.
It also said authorities confiscated about 60 bombs during the sweep.
In April, the death toll from clashes between police and a Uighur group in Bachu county in Kashgar prefecture reached 21. The state-run Xinhua News Agency said the suspects were all terrorists planning acts of violence.
The confrontation between Han Chinese and Uighurs escalated after the government pushed economic reform and openness policies in the late 1970s. Although the majority in the region, the Uighurs faced discrimination in job opportunities and suppression due to their culture and language.
In July 2009, Han Chinese killed Uighur immigrant workers in Guangdong province, sparking a wave of violence that left nearly 2,000 dead or injured.
The previous Chinese government of President Hu Jintao mobilized a large number of police to the region, forcing anti-government groups to go underground where they armed themselves with explosives and other weapons for assaults on police stations.
Although China had a change in government, with Xi Jinping taking the helm, the Uighurs remained underrepresented among the region’s top leadership.
Only four Uighurs sat on the 15-member standing committee of the Chinese Communist Party’s regional branch.
(This article was written by Nozomu Hayashi and Nanae Kurashige in Beijing and Kim Soon-hi in Urumqi, China.)
An armored truck is deployed in Urumqi in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region in July. (Kim Soon-hi)
China imposes embargo on N. Korea vessels in strict sanction
YINGKOU, China--In response to Pyongyang’s nuclear and missile tests, China has banned the entry of North Korean vessels to Yingkou port in Liaoning province, a major gateway for China’s coal imports from the reclusive state.
BEIJING--Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg held a rare meeting Saturday with China's propaganda chief, at a time when Chinese authorities are tightening control over their cyberspace.
Japan's ruling party urged Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government on Wednesday to consider seeking international arbitration over Beijing's drilling activities in the disputed East China Sea, mirroring similar action by the Philippines.
BEIJING--China's chief prosecutor said Sunday that battling "infiltration, subversion and sabotage by hostile forces" is a key priority this year, with terrorists, ethnic separatists and religious extremists all in his cross hairs.
China says little to cheer in improved ties with 'two-faced' Japan
BEIJING--China sees little reason for optimism that relations with Japan will improve, China's Foreign Minister said on Tuesday, accusing "two-faced" Tokyo of constantly seeking to make trouble.
Copyright The Asahi Shimbun Company. All rights reserved. No reproduction or republication without written permission.