2013-07~12
http://www.rttnews.com/2212609/five-detained-in-china-over-tiananmen-square-car-crash.aspx?type=gn

Five Detained In China Over Tiananmen Square Car Crash
The Chinese police on Wednesday detained five people believed to be Uighur Muslims from the country's restive Xinjiang region in connection with Monday's car crash at Beijing's Tiananmen Square, which they called a terrorist attack.
The attack was "carefully planned, organized and premeditated," the state-run Xinhua news agency quoted a police spokesman as saying.
With the cooperation of police authorities including those in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Beijing police captured five suspects who had been at large, a spokesman with the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau said.
He identified as Usmen Hasan, the man who drove the jeep bearing a Xinjiang number plate that ploughed through a crowd of people near the Square, killing two people and injuring another 40. Hasan himself, his mother and wife who were also in the jeep were killed as the vehicle caught fire.
The jeep crashed into a guardrail of Jinshui Bridge across the moat of the Forbidden City. The three people in the jeep died after they set gasoline inside the vehicle on fire, the spokesman said.
Police found gasoline, equipment full of gasoline, two knives and steel sticks as well as a flag with extremist religious content in the jeep. They also seized knives and at least one "jihad" flag from the temporary residence of the five detained suspects who admitted that they knew Usmen Hasan and conspired to plan and carry out the attack.
The Uighurs, a Turkic speaking Muslim ethnic minority from China's far western region of Xinjiang, are often complain about discrimination and the government's repressive policies. The region has seen several riots in the past in which more than 300 people had been killed during the last four years. At least a dozen of Uighurs arrested in connection with the violence had been executed by the authorities.