2013-07~12
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Beijing-to-buy-grain-from-the-Ukraine-29097.html

CHINA - UKRAINE Beijing to buy grain from the Ukraine
Kiev (AsiaNews/Agencies) - With a massive investment of over US$ 2.6
billion, the Chinese government will plough up to three
million hectares in Ukraine over the next 50
years.

The initiative, which is part of the China 's food security program , is
to encourage more Chinese companies to farm abroad to create jobs and meet a growing
demand for corn at home.
Ding Li, a
senior researcher in agriculture at Anbound Consulting in Beijing, said that
the process of urbanisation has increased demand. China had slightly over two million hectares of farmland abroad, he said.
"So three million hectares would mean a very big project."
If the
agreement signed in June between the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps
and KSG Agro, Ukraine's leading agricultural company, goes ahead, Ukraine should
initially provide China with at least 100,000 hectares in farmland in the
eastern Dnipropetrovs'k region.
XPCC, also
known as Bingtuan, is a quasi-military organisation established in Xinjiang in
the 1950s to reclaim farmland and consolidate defences against the Soviet
Union, whose "granary" at that time was, ironically, the Ukraine, now among the top ten farm producing nations in the
world.
Although
China's domestic grain output had grown for 10 straight years, demand for
imported grain has also grown. Last year, it imported nearly 14 million tonnes
of cereal and cereal flours, an increase of more than 150 per cent from 2011.
The trend goes
against Beijing's ambition for the country to remain 90 per cent
self-sufficient in food production. Hence, the
Chinese government in recent years has tried to encourage Chinese companies to
invest in foreign agriculture.
The
Beidahuang Group, China's largest agribusiness, has already purchased 234,000 hectares to grow soya
bean and corn in Argentina, whilst Chongqing Grain paid US$ 375 million for
soya bean plantations in Brazil and US$ 1.2 billion for land in Argentina to grow
soya beans, corn and cotton.
Last month, the Ukrainian daily Kyiv
Post described the deal with China as an
"unprecedented foreign investment" in Ukraine's agriculture sector by the People's Republic, made possible thanks to a
loan from US$ 3 billion provided by the Export-Import Bank of China.
AsiaNews spoke to Josephine, one of hundreds of Christians from Al-Hasakah, who spent a year in the hands of the Islamic State group. She talked about psychological suffering, conversion attempts, and separation from her male relatives. She survived thanks to her faith. Her mother Caroline, a Caritas official, is the only one in her family to have been spared the ordeal. She also negotiated their release with IS, and gave a Jihadi copies of the Bible. Now she hopes “to meet the pope” with her entire family.
Sister Rani Maria was killed in 1995, stabbed 54 times. The murderer was a radical Hindu, incited by village leaders, who wanted to stop the nun's activities in favor of tribal poor. The path "that led me to forgive Samunder Singh has not been easy, but now he's my brother." Instead, "my mother said once: 'I would kiss his hands, because on them there is the blood of my daughter'." The exchange of the Indian bracelet that celebrates love between siblings; the moment of encounter with the victim's mother.

 
2003 © All rights reserved - AsiaNews C.F. e P.Iva: 00889190153 - GLACOM®
Copyright ÂŠ 2003 AsiaNews C.F. 00889190153 All rights reserved. Content on this site is made available for personal, non-commercial use only. You may not reproduce, republish, sell or otherwise distribute the content or any modified or altered versions of it without the express written permission of the editor. Photos on AsiaNews.it are largely taken from the internet and thus considered to be in the public domain. Anyone contrary to their publication need only contact the editorial office which will immediately proceed to remove the photos.