2013-07~12
http://www.theatlantic.com/china/archive/2013/10/chinese-women-still-seek-a-seat-at-the-table/280240/

Chinese Women Still Seek a Seat at the Table - The Atlantic
Try two trial issues of The Atlantic with our compliments.
Sheryl Sandberg's message has resonated in a country where women still struggle to balance their professional and personal lives.
Sheryl Sandberg's recent visit to Beijing has inspired great interest in her message of female empowerment. (Andy Wong/AP)

BEIJING—As she strode out in tune with the strobe lights and Star Wars-inspired theme music which had been chosen for her entrance, Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg placed a water bottle on the podium and walked right past it towards the lip of the stage. During the ensuing 24 minutes, she spoke to the predominantly female audience of several hundred power-heel wearing professionals about the importance of “leaning in,” claiming their “rightful place at the table,” and marrying a man who changes diapers. 
A few minutes into the speech, the Chinese woman sitting next to me whispered: “She is elegant enough to be a first lady.” I nodded in approval until, suddenly, we looked at each other and said “No, president!”
That we made this “mistake” while attending an event of such female caliber seems inexcusable. But in truth, Sandberg’s bouffant and smile strikingly resemble those of Jacqueline Kennedy. It’s also hardly an insult to be compared to a First Lady—though Forbes ranks Sandberg one notch above Michelle Obama on its “World’s Most Powerful Women” list—but even still: It was alarming both of us associated even the most powerful of women with the role of “second fiddle.”
Gender equality still has a ways to go in China. While women in the country actually have a higher representation in the People’s Congress than American women do in the U.S. Congress, their influence is small and confined to a few select areas such as education and healthcare.
Similar patterns exist on college campuses. As of 2010, Chinese women earn the majority of bachelor’s degrees in China, and their presence in masters, doctoral, and business school programs is steadily increasing. But as Xiang Bing, Director of the Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business (CKGSB) pointed out in his in speech prior to Sandberg’s, while women account for nearly half his school’s MBA alumni, they only represent 18 percent of the Executive MBA graduates. Sources associated with CKGSB even suggest that a healthy portion of the females enrolled in the program may be there primarily to find a wealthy husband.
Rigid gender roles are well-entrenched in China, a country where young girls grow up learning xue de hao bu ru yi jia de hao, a phrase translating as “it’s better to marry well than to study well.” Still-influential Confucian values dictate that a man should be superior to his wife in terms of salary and education, and as a result many women with college degrees find themselves unwanted in China’s marriage market.
Enter Sheryl Sandberg. Even before the Facebook COO set foot in Beijing, several grassroots “Lean In” groups, inspired by her bestselling book of the same name, had sprouted up across the country. Though many of these groups are officially registered on Sandberg’s platform site, LeanIn.org, their objectives are tailored to local needs. One of the first groups of this kind, a Lean In Circle comprised of 13 young women from China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, and the U.S., lists “involving men,” as one of its goals. “Women will only be able to fully ‘lean in’ if the men around them—their husbands, coworkers and bosses, and potential mentors—provide support,” is one of the group’s key written objectives.
Their initiative is especially needed in China, where a woman’s professional success, no matter how exceptional, remains secondary to the importance given to her marital status. Marriage is such a dominant social force that, according to numbers from the National Bureau of Statistics, less than 2 percent of Chinese females remain unmarried by the age of 38. Whether they choose to marry or end up acquiescing to marriage pressure is a separate issue, but modern women struggle to ensure that their life partners are supporting, rather than inhibiting, their professional and personal ambitions.
“Society is less forgiving and accepting of diverse lifestyles and types of accomplishments; families place tremendous pressure on their children to achieve high incomes and stable family lives, even if these come at the expense of individual happiness,” says Mariel Reed, an American woman who co-founded the Lean In Beijing group with Allison Ye, a native of China’s Jiangxi Province. “There is a need in China for a more diverse, personally-tailored definition of success.”
Charlotte Han, one of the principal organizers of Lean In Beijing’s group activities, and part of a group who met Sandberg at a private event at Peking University, echoes Reed’s sentiments. “She said we were the first international circle outside of the U.S. that she got to meet, and she had tears in her eyes,” reports Han. “After meeting her, I want to lean in more decisively. For me personally, the “lean in” attitude is about pursuing what I love and want—it’s motivation to proactively engage in meaningful and challenging work which will help me learn, take initiative, and be responsible for myself.”
For Han, a recent college graduate, one of the most meaningful quotes of Sandberg’s book was: “Social gains are never handed out. They must be seized.” She keeps this in mind as she increases her involvement in volunteer work and uses the experience to help polish her skills outside her tedious day job at a state-owned enterprise.
As part of Lean In Beijing’s efforts, which now include monthly circle meetings where women discuss everything from staving off marriage ultimatums from parents to rebounding from a devastating divorce, the team has also just released the preliminary results of a survey they developed. Based on a sampling of nearly 500 working women, their results indicate that “establishing a work-life balance,” “negotiating maternity leave,” “making sacrifices for the career of their other half,” and “being outnumbered by males in top-positions,” are the greatest challenges for professional females.
Though women around the world share these challenges, Chinese women face a number of extra hurdles that would seem unusual elsewhere. Job ads in China often specify that female applicants be of a certain height, weight, or complexion—just to work in an office. Companies advertising for female staff under a certain age or of a certain marital status are also not uncommon.
“In some ways, young married women with children have it easiest,” says Susan Rui, a working professional in Beijing. “Because of the one-child policy, employers can be relatively certain that they won’t have to grant them maternity leave.” 
Precisely because of these extremes, the Facebook COO’s speech and the advice contained in her bestselling book couldn’t have fallen on more receptive ears. But will Chinese women be able to turn this advice into an actionable blueprint?
In a post-China Facebook wall post summarizing the highlights of her trip, Sandberg acknowledged that Chinese women may have a rough time of finding an equal partner due to a continued preference for male children and the persistent belief that a happy couple is one where the man is more ‘successful’ than his wife. “... But these are the same cultural norms which continue to hold women back all over the world as success is perceived positively for men, and often mixed or even negatively for women,” she wrote, earning nearly 2,000 “likes.”
On top of the societal misgivings surrounding female success, there’s also the common misconception that this success is limited, as pointed out by Lean In Beijing co-founder, Reed. “So often—and as women, especially—we tend to see others’ success as an assault to our own,” she says. “We imagine that there is only so much of this magical thing, ‘success,’ to go around, and when someone else does something amazing, that weakens our ability to achieve. Actually, it’s the opposite—and to the extreme!” The experience of reading Sandberg’s book and seeing the success of one member of the Lean In Beijing group “transfer” to the other members has taught her to re-evaluate her feelings.
Notably absent from Sandberg’s visit to China was any special focus on Facebook, which has been blocked on the Mainland since July 2009 following ethnic riots in the Chinese region of Xinjiang. Instead, an internal message board flashed behind Sandberg as she spoke, projecting “tweets” to the audience. “She is so beautiful!” said one. “More men in China must wash clothes!” read another.
But the lack of Facebook access in China didn’t dilute enthusiasm for Sandberg’s message. “Sheryl Sandberg says ‘make your partner a real partner,’” wrote one young Chinese woman on her Weixin account, a popular Chinese social network. With it, she posted a photo of a man riding the subway while carrying his girlfriend’s purse, a common sign of chivalry in China. “But not like this.”

 From a moral standpoint, it makes the world worse.


 A photographer slows down his process to capture a population in flux.

The U.S. president talks through his hardest decisions about America’s role in the world.
Friday, August 30, 2013, the day the feckless Barack Obama brought to a premature end America’s reign as the world’s sole indispensable superpower—or, alternatively, the day the sagacious Barack Obama peered into the Middle Eastern abyss and stepped back from the consuming void—began with a thundering speech given on Obama’s behalf by his secretary of state, John Kerry, in Washington, D.C. The subject of Kerry’s uncharacteristically Churchillian remarks, delivered in the Treaty Room at the State Department, was the gassing of civilians by the president of Syria, Bashar al-Assad.
When U.S. politicians talk about Scandinavian-style social welfare, they fail to explain the most important aspect of such policies: selfishness.
Bernie Sanders is hanging on, still pushing his vision of a Nordic-like socialist utopia for America, and his supporters love him for it. Hillary Clinton, meanwhile, is chalking up victories by sounding more sensible. “We are not Denmark,” she said in the first Democratic debate, pointing instead to America’s strengths as a land of freedom for entrepreneurs and businesses. Commentators repeat endlessly the mantra that Sanders’s Nordic-style policies might sound nice, but they’d never work in the U.S. The upshot is that Sanders, and his supporters, are being treated a bit like children—good-hearted, but hopelessly naive. That’s probably how Nordic people seem to many Americans, too.
A Nordic person myself, I left my native Finland seven years ago and moved to the U.S. Although I’m now a U.S. citizen, I hear these kinds of comments from Americans all the time—at cocktail parties and at panel discussions, in town hall meetings and on the opinion pages. Nordic countries are the way they are, I’m told, because they are small, homogeneous “nanny states” where everyone looks alike, thinks alike, and belongs to a big extended family. This, in turn, makes Nordic citizens willing to sacrifice their own interests to help their neighbors. Americans don’t feel a similar kinship with other Americans, I’m told, and thus will never sacrifice their own interests for the common good. What this is mostly taken to mean is that Americans will never, ever agree to pay higher taxes to provide universal social services, as the Nordics do. Thus Bernie Sanders, and anyone else in the U.S. who brings up Nordic countries as an example for America, is living in la-la land.
In the Democrats Abroad primary, the Vermont senator beat his rival by a wide margin and picked up nine delegates.
Bernie Sanders keeps arguing that the United States should look abroad for policies that would make the nation more equitable—and it seems that Americans who live there agree with him.
Results from the Democrats Abroad primary show the Vermont senator cruising to a big win over Hillary Clinton among ex-pats, taking 69 percent of the vote to her 31. That’s good to net Sanders nine delegates and Clinton four. Nearly 35,000 Americans overseas cast ballots, a 50 percent increase over the 2008 total.
Clinton has pushed back against Sanders’s praise for Scandinavian countries. “We are not Denmark,” she said in October, hastening to add: “I love Denmark.” It turns out that affection wasn’t reciprocated by the  American Democrats there. Sanders whomped her in Denmark, 358-89. In Sweden, Sanders won 513-202. In Norway, he won 328-102.
What information, if anything, does a trans woman owe a straight man? A Horace and Pete scene about that subject was dubbed “problematic” due solely to the identity of its writer.
During the first six episodes of Horace and Pete, the comedian Louis C.K., the drama’s creator, writer, and director, presents an array of characters who all see the world differently. They inhabit an old Brooklyn bar, a place out of time, where plot lines unfold through dialogue. Uncle Pete, an elderly misanthrope, romanticizes tradition—the bar has been run by his family for seven generations. His middle-aged niece is repelled by the same history, knowing that many of her forefathers beat their wives. Yet her contemporary, Cousin Pete, suffers from a mental illness that renders the outside world a terrifying place. For him, the bar is the safest place of all.
Meanwhile, bar patrons include a white woman who explains what it’s like to live with Tourette syndrome, a black man who laughingly relays his attitude toward a bar-mate’s racism, bickering men from all sides of the ideological spectrum, a gay hipster looking for a drink, a once-glamorous alcoholic staving off loneliness, and many people and themes besides that no single writer could render from personal experience.
On Monday, Apple did something it has never done before.
On Monday afternoon, from its headquarters in California, Apple did something it has never done before: It announced a new iPhone with a smaller screen than the last model.
The phone, which it dubbed the iPhone SE, has the same innards as the iPhone 6S, the jumbo device that the company released last year. Its processors are just as fast, and it comes in 16 and 64-gigabyte versions. Its camera even has the same number of megapixels (12) as the 6S.
But in place of the 6S’s 4.7-inch screen is a four-inch screen, just as the iPhone 5 had. (iPhone screens are measured by their diagonal.)
The new phones end what was essentially a long game of chicken played between Apple and its customers. Since September 2014, when the company first released iPhones with big screens, some users have pleaded for smaller devices. (I wrote a story that month asking if the new phones were too large for many women’s hands.)
It’s not any harder to imagine a Federal Reserve Chair Kim Kardashian now than it was two decades ago to imagine a President Donald Trump.
Two high-profile examples of disorienting job changes, both involving Google, recently graced the news. First, Defense Secretary Ash Carter announced that Eric Schmidt, Google’s former CEO, will head the new Defense Innovation Advisory Board at the Pentagon. And second, Chris Poole, the founder of 4chan, the anonymous messageboard known for Internet diversions such as lolcats and Rickrolling—as well as its more revolting features, such as abuse, hate, and doxxing—announced that he had joined the search giant in an unspecified capacity.
These two career shifts issue a cognitive dissonance. On the one hand, they appear to represent reversals for both figures. Schmidt, a vocal detractor of government interference and a de facto promoter of tax avoidance as Google’s CEO, assisting the government (and the Pentagon, no less). And Poole, the accidental leader of the most rogue, unpredictable, and sometimes despicable of Internet communities, joining the most mainstream and supposedly respectable of Internet blue-chips.
Why the obsession with our kids’ happiness may be dooming them to unhappy adulthoods. A therapist and mother reports.
If there’s one thing I learned in graduate school, it’s that the poet Philip Larkin was right. (“They fuck you up, your mum and dad, / They may not mean to, but they do.”) At the time, I was a new mom with an infant son, and I’d decided to go back to school for a degree in clinical psychology. With baby on the brain and term papers to write, I couldn’t ignore the barrage of research showing how easy it is to screw up your kids. Of course, everyone knows that growing up with “Mommy Dearest” produces a very different child from one raised by, say, a loving PTA president who has milk and homemade cookies waiting after school. But in that space between Joan Crawford and June Cleaver, where most of us fall, it seemed like a lot could go wrong in the kid-raising department.
The hit song by Twenty One Pilots tackles a generation's insecurities.
This is the inaugural “One Thing Considered,” an occasional attempt by Megan Garber and Conor Friedersdorf to talk through cultural artifacts that tickled their brains. In this edition, the artifact at hand is the song “Stressed Out,” the nostalgia-laced hit from the Ohio duo Twenty One Pilots (also known as Josh Dun and Tyler Joseph). It is the band’s first top 10 hit, having reached number two on the Billboard Hot 100.
Conor Friedersdorf: Would you trade the ups-and-downs of adult life for a soothing lullaby in your childhood bedroom? That’s the comforting fantasy that Twenty One Pilots conjure in “Stressed Out.” When I first heard the song, listening to KROQ on the 405 Freeway in Los Angeles, I thought, watch out Taylor Swift, ​this​ is the Millennial anthem.
The upcoming biopic about the singer proves that the world still isn’t ready to tell her story.
When I was a kid, I knew what the worst parts of me were—my hair and my mouth. My hair was nappy. My lips were big. Nearly every kid around me knew something similar of themselves because nearly every one of us had some sort of physical defect—dark skin, nappy hair, broad nose, full lips—that opened us up to ridicule from one another. That each of these “defects” were representative of all the Africa that ran through us was never lost on anyone.“Africa” was an insult—African bush-boogie, African bootie-scratcher etc. Ethiopian famine jokes were all the rage back then.
Did we want to be white? I don’t think so. We didn’t want to look like Rob Lowe or Madonna. We hated and mocked Michael Jackson’s aesthetic changes as viciously as we mocked each other. What we wanted was to be on the right end of the paper bag tests. We wanted hazel eyes. We wanted wavy hair. I had neither hazel eyes nor wavy hair. But I also didn’t suffer in the same way that I saw other kids around me suffer. I was not dark-skinned. And, more importantly, I was not a girl.
Inside the president’s last-minute decision not to bomb Syria in 2013
Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price.
Copyright © 2016 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.