2013-07~12
http://www.smh.com.au/world/eleven-die-in-attack-on-xinjiang-police-station-20131117-2xpcd.html

Eleven die in attack on Xinjiang police station
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News, My Clippings, My Comments and user settings.
Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.

 China blamed Uighur "terrorists" for an attack in Tiananmen Square last month in which a car burst into flames.
Eleven people have been killed in an attack on a police station in China's restive western region of Xinjiang, state media reported on Sunday.
Nine attackers and two auxiliary police officers were killed in the incident on Saturday in Serikbuya township, near the city of Kashgar, the official Xinhua new agency said, quoting local police.
Xinhua said the attackers were armed with knives and axes and that two other police officers were injured. The agency gave no further details.
However, the cause of the violence was disputed by a Xinjiang exile group, which said Chinese security personnel opened fire on protesting Uighurs, the largest ethnic group in the region.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the World Uighur Congress, a German-based advocacy group, said a clash erupted after a Uighur youth was shot dead, with the eight others subsequently being killed.
"Several tens" of Uighur demonstrators were arrested, he said in an email citing what he described as locally provided information, while also mentioning the deaths and injuries of the four Chinese.
"I again call on international society to take emergency measures to stop the Chinese government from directly opening fire to suppress Uighur protesters and depriving them of using legal appeals and defending their rights," he said.
The incident follows the deadly crash of a vehicle that erupted into flames in Beijing's Tiananmen Square last month. The government blamed the incident on "terrorists" from Xinjiang backed by foreign Islamist militants.
The car, carrying three people from Xinjiang and also loaded with petrol canisters,ws drivin into the gate of the Forbidden City on October 28. The incident left two dead besides the three people in the car and 40 injured, Chinese police said.
Beijing said separatists backed by the Islamist militant East Turkestan Islamic Movement were responsible.
Police called it a "carefully planned, organised and premeditated violent terrorist attack", adding that the vehicle also contained knives and banners bearing extremist religious content.
But that has largely failed to convince outside experts to accept the assertion of terrorism, citing the unsophisticated nature of the attack and the lack of an established Islamic extremist foothold in China.
State-run media have reported periodic bouts of violence in Xinjiang that Beijing often describes as "terrorist attacks".
One such incident in June left 35 people dead, and 139 people have been arrested in recent months for spreading jihadist ideology.
The mainly Muslim Uighurs, the largest ethnic group in Xinjiang, routinely complain of rights abuses against them by the authorities and dismiss claims of terrorism and separatism as an excuse by Beijing to justify religious and security restrictions.

 Compare variable loan rates as low as 3.89% p.a. now

 All Galaxy S7 plans from all major telcos available now

 Grab a bargain on one of the year's best phones