2013-07~12
http://www.girodivite.it/Will-unrest-in-China-s-Xinjiang.html

Girodivite: Will unrest in China’s Xinjiang region expand to Kyrgyzstan and Central Asia? (The Times of Central Asia)
BISHKEK (TCA) — On several occasions in the past, the unrest in Xinjiang has been a precursor to some sort of protest and violence in Kyrgyzstan.
Generally the spring and summer and early fall seasons have been the 
period of protest. This was the case in Xinjiang and Kyrgyzstan for the 
revolutions of March 2005, the one of April 2010, and the tragic events 
of June 2010.
The attack of June 26, 2013, by a group of Uyghurs on the police station 
in Lukqun left a dead toll of 35 people, out of which 24 where Chinese 
and 11 Uyghur. The attack, already labelled by the Chinese Government as a terrorist action, came as a surprise not only because unrest was 
completely absent in the area, but also because Lukqun is far away from the main cities of Urumqi and Kashgar and is mainly an agricultural area mostly populated by peaceful Uyghurs.
As it happened in previous cases there are two versions of what that may have originated the violence. According to some sources a young Uyghur was killed by a Chinese factory owner since apparently he was found stealing, and later the authorities after catching the culprit concluded that the Chinese was mentally unstable and consequently applied a mild pain. From the other side, the Government is looking mainly to the potential of religious extremism as a seed of terrorism, mainly with the support of external forces. Blame is placed on the ETIM ( East Turkestan Islamic Group ) that the United States have already identified as a terrorist group, and according to some sources this group has already been fighting in Syria in support of Syrian rebels. While it is clear the Chinese Government is placing the blame on external terrorist 
forces, the general unrest certainly has a considerable root in the 
unbalanced economic situation and several restrictions that Uyghurs are 
subjected to in terms of religious freedom, ethnic education, and also 
business development. No one can deny that the Central Chinese 
Government is placing a lot of attention to the economic development of 
Xinjiang.
This reporter has been visiting Xinjiang regularly in the last ten years 
from Urumqi to Kashgar to Turpan to many other inner areas, and the 
remarkable developments that have taken place in the last five years 
cannot be ignored or underestimated. There is no doubt that the economic success was driven by the Central Government’s investment in infrastructure as well State companies, but the Chinese in the private 
sector have been fast in catching the bonanza and this has certainly 
benefited the Uyghur as well, mainly in the urban cities.
Today Xinjiang is no doubt at the vanguard of China’s business toward 
Central Asia and the real land bridge to Europe. The new Urumqi 
development zone has already attracted investment in excess of 10 
billion US dollars and the investment keeps increasing. This demands 
more labor force that is clearly coming from the internal regions of 
China, even if capital and technology are coming more often from the 
Eastern and southern part of the country.
The numerous infrastructural projects such as pipelines, roads, and 
railways under construction or announced, will certainly benefit the 
region but are changing the demographic composition of Xinjiang with 
more Chinese and money to come to the region but also to an inevitable result that the Uyghur population will become restricted to a previously unthinkable minority role. All this is naturally opposed by Uyghurs who may see their traditions and identity disappear in a sort of 
globalization favouring only Chinese Han.
What happens in Xinjiang is certainly watched by political analysts and 
governments of Central Asia, especially from Kyrgyzstan, but also in 
Tajikistan and Uzbekistan that already in the past have had unstable 
situations often develop into bloodshed and violent tragic reaction. 
With the withdrawal of American and NATO forces from Afghanistan 
everybody is talking about the risk that an unstable situation may be 
generated. This is of course a risk that all Central Asian countries are 
considering, together with the possibility that external terrorist 
groups may take advantage of the situation and jump on the possibilities to destabilize further the local scenario with violence. In any case whatever is happening in Xinjiang, although restricted to China, should always be carefully watched since the matrix of the unrest, primarily of an economic nature, may easily find its justification in religious extremism of an Islamic nature, and all of Central Asia is an Islamic region.