2013-07~12
http://www.independent.ie/world-news/asia-pacific/chinese-police-use-battalions-of-plucky-geese-to-keep-peace-29435141.html

Chinese police use battalions of plucky geese to keep peace - Independent.ie

Security chiefs in a remote and restive pocket of western China have deployed a new weapon in their fight to maintain order: battalions of honking geese.

Police forces in rural corners of Xinjiang province have been sending geese out on patrol since earlier this year, according to a report on the website of the state-run 'People's Daily' newspaper.
"Among all poultry, geese (are known) for being extremely vigilant and having excellent hearing," Zhang Quansheng, a police chief in Xinjiang's Shawan county, told the newspaper.
He said the use of crime-fighting geese was now being "actively promoted" across the region.
Law enforcement agents described the geese as a new "highlight of stability maintenance work" and said they had proved themselves "better than dogs" in tackling crime.
"Geese are very brave. They spread their wings and will attack any strangers entering (someone's) home," said Mr Zhang, the local police chief. The birds were like "a radar that does not need power", he added.
"In some ways, they are more useful than dogs; a household normally keeps one dog (but) an intruder can throw a drugged bun to kill the dog.
"Geese are normally kept in groups and they have poor eyesight at night making it very difficult for intruders to (poison them)." (© Daily Telegraph, London)
Elephants have killed five people in two separate attacks in eastern India, an official said.
Debris found earlier this month off the southeast African coast which some believe could be from a missing Malaysia Airlines flight has arrived in Australia for testing, officials said today, two years after the plane disappeared.
North Korea has fired five short-range projectiles into the sea, Seoul officials said, in a continuation of weapon launches it has carried out in an apparent response to ongoing South Korea-US military drills.

'It had all the attributes of 'a win, is a win, is a win''

Several bomb attacks have thrown the spotlight on security in Turkey. Here...

Whatever the cause, our careers often affect our personal relationships.

The 13 exchange students killed in a bus crash in north-eastern...

Debris found earlier this month off the southeast African coast which some believe could be from a...

An aviation official has said it will be very difficult to extract...

An aviation official has said it will be very difficult to extract...

The only suspected participant in Nov. 13 Paris attacks to be...

The world's largest aircraft has been unveiled for the first time...

They say crime does not pay, but new research suggests that mobsters who stay in school...

Footage released by ESA shows astronauts Tim Peake and Scott Kelly zapping aliens as part of...

A heartbreaking video has gone viral on Facebook, of a mother...

At least 14 university students have been killed when the...

A young protester was attacked during Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump's...

Tens of thousands have gathered at a Buddhist temple in...

Four have been killed and 20 injured in a suicide bombing in...

Two Irish people have been injured in this morning's deadly bomb attack in Istanbul which killed...

An airliner flying from Dubai crashes in the southern Russian...

After years of compaigns against keeping killer whales in captivity SeaWorld has announced it will...