2013-07~12
http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/News-of-the-day-From-Across-the-Globe-August-13-4727231.php

News of the day From Across the Globe, August 13 - SFGate
1 Iraq violence: Two bombs, including a suicide attack on a cafe, killed 26 people in central Iraq on Monday, officials said. They were the latest attacks in a months-long surge of violence. In the deadlier blast, a suicide bomber detonated his explosive belt inside a cafe in Balad, 60 miles north of Baghdad, killing 15 people and wounding 30, police said. Militants frequently attack Shiite civilian targets to undermine the government. About two hours later, six people were killed and 17 others wounded in a bomb explosion near a restaurant in the city of Baquba.
2 Carrier nation: India has launched its first home-built aircraft carrier, marking another milestone in its efforts to bolster its maritime presence. Defense Minister A.K. Antony said Monday that India needed a strong navy to defend itself and that it will press ahead with developing its maritime capabilities. India joins the U.S., Russia, France and Britain in building its own carrier.
3 War crimes suspect: Laszlo Csatary, a former police officer indicted in June by Hungarian authorities for abusing Jews and contributing to their deportation to Nazi death camps during World War II, has died, his lawyer said Monday. He was 98. Csatary died of pneumonia in a Budapest hospital. Csatary, who had denied the charges, was sentenced to death in absentia in Czechoslovakia in 1948 for similar war crimes. After the war, he lived for decades in Canada before leaving in 1997 after it was discovered that he had lied about his past to obtain citizenship.
4 Mali president: Former Prime Minister Ibrahim Boubacar Keita won Mali's presidency in an election aimed at restoring stability to a country racked by a rebellion, a coup and an Islamic insurgency. Soumalia Cisse's concession averts a protracted election fight, allowing Mali to move ahead with establishing a democratically elected government, one of the international community's caveats for unlocking some $4 billion in promised aid.
5 No dummies: Researchers have found what they say are specialized bone tools made by Neanderthals in Europe thousands of years before modern humans are thought to have arrived to share such skills, a discovery that suggests modern man's cousins were more advanced than previously believed. In a paper published online Monday by the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, researchers discuss their discovery in southwestern France of four fragments of bone they say were used to make animal hides tougher and more water-resistant. The oldest tool appears to be 51,000 years old.
6 Death sentence: A court in restive western China on Monday sentenced two members of the Uighur ethnic minority to death and gave prison sentences to three others for what authorities called a "terror attack" that killed 15 people, state media reported. The court in Kashgar, Xinjiang region, said the charges against the five men included intentional homicide, making illegal explosives, and organizing and leading a "terror group." The verdicts come during a drive by the Chinese government to reinforce control in Xinjiang after a succession of deadly confrontations pitting authorities against members of the Uighur population. Uighurs are a largely Muslim, Turkic-speaking group, and many resent Communist Party controls and the growing presence of Han Chinese people in Xinjiang.