2013-07~12
http://english.cri.cn/6966/2013/11/02/3441s796138.htm

Chinese, Turkish Writers Exchange Ideas on Literature
During a literature seminar, Chinese writer Wang Gang shares his experience in Xinjiang with Turkish writers in front of an audience. 

"When I was in Ruoqiang county in Xinjiang, I asked a young Uygur to sing a song, and he sung 'Istanbul'. I don't know who wrote the song, Turkish or Uygur people in Xinjiang, but I was moved so much. I think if he was here today, he'd move many more people, too." 

Wang's story has narrowed the distance between China and Turkey. Until now the two countries have had little exchange regarding literature. This year's Istanbul Book Fair has changed that. 

Chinese writer Zhang Yueran says dialogue like this can bring the two countries even closer. 

"To be honest, maybe the only Turkish writer we know is the Nobel Prize winner Orhan Pamuk, so we are eager to read more works by Turkish writers. When I found out I'd have the opportunity to talk with a Turkish writer of my age, I was so excited. I hope we can help introduce other young Turkish writers to China." 

For Turkish writer Baris Mustecaplioglu, direct translation is important for literary exchanges between the two countries. His book "The Coward and the Beast" was translated into Chinese, but from the English version, not the Turkish. 

"We need to educate and train translators who can translate directly from Turkish to Chinese and Chinese to Turkish. Literary translation is something different, something more difficult. If you translate a literary book, you must have a taste of literature. So we need to invest in students learning Chinese and Turkish." 

Mustecaplioglu expects more opportunities for Turkish writers to meet Chinese counterparts at next year's Beijing International Book Fair, when Turkey will be the Country of Honor. 

The dialogue was also good experience for the Turkish audience. Lale Aydin studies history at Istanbul University. 

"It's very good for our culture, because Chinese people maybe are not very interested in Turkish language or culture. We also want to know about Chinese culture and writers. So it's very good to understand more about each other. It brings us closer." 

The International Istanbul Book Fair runs from November 2 to 10, and offers even more exchanges between writers and publishers from China and Turkey. 
