2013-07~12
http://www.arabnews.com/node/457172

Xinjiang security tight on riot anniversary | Arab News
China’s Muslim Uighur minority criticized the authoritarian government on Friday saying its stifling security presence has fanned ethnic discord in the far western homeland. (AP)
BEIJING: Chinese authorities imposed tight control in the capital of Xinjiang yesterday, the fourth anniversary of ethnic rioting which killed around 200 people, said state media, exile groups and ordinary citizens.
Internet users posted pictures of baton-wielding security personnel in Urumqi, a city of more than two million people and the scene of clashes in 2009 between mostly Muslim Uighurs and members of China’s Han majority that were Xinjiang’s worst violence of recent years.
Last week two incidents in the region left at least 35 people dead and officials have vowed to crack down on what they call “terrorists.”
“Wearing helmets, officers patrolled the capital holding guns and shields,” said the state-run Global Times newspaper, describing the “heaviest security measures since 2009” in Urumqi.
There was “a heavy presence of armed police officers and police vehicles at all major crossroads in Urumqi,” it added.
China commonly steps up patrols for the July 5 anniversary of the riots but the report said: “Last week’s violence in the region has made authorities particularly watchful.”
The date also comes in the run-up to the Islamic holy month of Ramadan.
Numerous police cars patrolled Urumqi’s streets and helicopters flew overhead, a city resident surnamed Wang told AFP yesterday via an online chat service.
“I haven’t heard or seen any conflicts occur, and all shops and businesses seem to be running as normal,” he said.
“The Urumqi train station feels safe,” a user of Sina Weibo, a Twitter-like microblogging service, posted Thursday under the name Zhangxh1970. “On the square there are only police. People who came to pick up passengers are stopped outside.”
“Harmonious Xinjiang,” he added, an apparent dig at the pacific image of the region often depicted in state propaganda.
That theme was highlighted yesterday evening’s main national TV news broadcast, which carried segments on Xinjiang including images of dancing people in ethnic dress.
 