2013-07~12
http://www.politico.com/blogs/under-the-radar/2013/12/last-uighurs-leave-guantanamo-180369.html

Last 3 Uighurs leave Guantánamo - POLITICO
The Justice Department asked to postpone a court hearing set for Tuesday.
Three ridiculous stunts I'm refusing to cover, and why you should ignore them too.
Bernie Sanders has won a primary of American expatriates whom Democrats invite to participate in the party's presidential nominating process.
The network cut away from the press conference entirely at one point.
It's gotten so small-ball that one congressman introduced a bill to recognize the significance of magic.
Clinton launched her most pointed attack yet on the Republican front-runner.
In a historic press conference, Obama not only allowed Castro to be pressed on political prisoners. He joined in himself.
Trump called Warren "the Indian," recalling her past claims of Native American heritage.
Join POLITICO’s Pro Health Care team for a conversation on the U.S. opioid crisis. With the recent release of the CDC’s voluntary prescribing guideline,...
"We are really gratified with the results," Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates told reporters Monday. "We are bringing fewer but more impactful...
"There are profound differences between our countries that will not go away," Castro says.
Congressional delegations traveling to Israel are common, but the trip is more significant due to Ryan's role as House Speaker.

 By Eli Stokols, Seung Min Kim and Burgess Everett
‘The theme of the meeting is party unity, which we need,’ Rep. DesJarlais said.
Kountoupes for CVS — Balch & Bingham, Maynard Cooper & Gale for Blue Origin
He says he plans to announce more names in the coming days.
"Ted Cruz is a consistent conservative who understands the importance of federalism."
The Senate should consider President Barack Obama's Supreme Court nominee regardless of the fact that it comes at the end of his term.
“Granted, both sides have to disavow violence," he also says.
Trump is a "loser," she tweeted, and he knows it.
In her speech before AIPAC, the former secretary of state calls a Trump presidency 'unthinkable.'
A vote for John Kasich is a vote for Donald Trump, Mitt Romney is telling prospective voters in Utah and Arizona ahead of Tuesday contests in those states.
Part B pricing wars rage on — FDA guidance could impact some biologic exclusivity
"We cannot be ‘neutral' in defending our allies,” Kasich is expected to say.
Orders issued Monday morning pulled Garland from three-judge panels set to hear a total of six cases on April 14 and 15.
Although his role at the State Department prevents him from weighing in on the election, Todd Stern had some kind words for his former boss.
U.S. official touts oil exports in Brussels — McCarthy, Moniz continue Capitol Hill budget tours
Malmström defends EU market access offer — Labor Dept. keeping its eyes on Peru
FAH concerned about rise of 'skinny' plans — Could Zika be America's summer panic?
FBI investigating alleged cybersecurity extortion firm — The case of the missing IT expert
FCC names aspiring bidders in auction (kind of) — Court denies broadcasters attempts to delay
DSCC posts $6.2 million, Senate Leadership Fund $1.1 million in February — Angle returns to challenge Heck in Nevada Senate
First look: Computer science coalition expands — Community college lobbying — Tracking military kids
The last ethnic Uighur Chinese prisoners were released from Guantánamo Bay and sent to Slovakia in recent days, ending a chapter in the Guantánamo saga that proved far more difficult than the Obama White House initially anticipated.
The three men just transferred, Yusef Abbas, Saidullah Khalik and Hajiakbar Abdul Ghuper, were ordered released by a federal court in 2008 — during the waning days of the Bush administration.
However, their release languished for years after an Obama administration plan to bring at least two of the Uighurs to the U.S. went off the rails in 2009. The failure of that project — personally overseen by then-White House Counsel Greg Craig — resulted not only in an end to the plan to bring those men to Virginia, but also played a large role in provoking a congressional effort that blocked President Barack Obama's broader attempt to close the island prison.
The Uighurs — 22 of whom were detained at Guantánamo after being picked up in Afghanistan — hail from China's largely Muslim Xinjiang province. China considers them Chinese citizens and, in many cases, criminals or terrorists as a result of their involvement with separatist movements that favor independence for the region. China wanted the men back, but because of U.S. concerns about China's legal system, they could not be returned to China. As a result, the U.S. wound up scattering the men to six other countries, some of which received financial assistance for taking the prisoners.
The fate of the Uighurs also became a symbol of the impotence of U.S. courts in resolving the cases of men at Guantánamo. After a judge ordered 17 of the Uighurs released in 2008, subsequent court rulings effectively denied judges the authority to force transfer of prisoners from Guantánamo to the U.S. or abroad.
The Pentagon on Tuesday hailed the latest transfer as a major step toward Obama's goal of closing the island prison.
"This transfer and resettlement constitutes a significant milestone in our effort to close the detention facility at Guantánamo Bay," Pentagon press secretary Rear Adm. John Kirby said in a statement.
"The United States is very grateful to Slovakia for its cooperation on a wide range of issues, and we deeply appreciate Slovakia’s humanitarian assistance in accepting these three individuals from Guantánamo who were in need of resettlement," State Department Guantánamo Closure Envoy Cliff Sloan said in a statement. "The United States and Slovakia have a strong and close relationship. We have worked together on humanitarian migration issues for many years, and this important humanitarian action reflects Slovakia's sustained assistance, which, on the issue of Guantánamo, began in 2009."
A total of 155 prisoners remain at Guantánamo, according to the Pentagon.