2013-07~12
http://www.worldbulletin.net/?aType=haber&ArticleID=117495

Head of Turkish Religious Affairs visits Urumqi | General | Worldbulletin News
Head of Turkish Religious Affairs Mehmet Gormez visited on Tuesday the Xinjiang Islam Academy as part of his five-day stay in China.
During his visit, Gormez was informed about the academy where 200 students receive an education.
"It is dark if there is no light of learning, and 'dark' means gloom in Arabic. If there is gloom somewhere, there will appear cruelty, oppressors, and the oppressed," he said while speaking with the students at the academy.  
He pointed out that the right way, which would lead to correct understanding and the practise of religion, was to get a good religious education.
Following his meetings in Urumqi, the capital of East Turkestan (the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region) of China, Gormez will travel to Beijing late Tuesday to pay a visit to China's Vice President Li Yuanchao.
 A protocol signed between the Turkish Religious Affairs and Chinese Islamic Union last year foresees projects on religious services and the publication of religious books including the holy Quran for the first time in China. 
Gormez also met Tuesday with Nur Bekri, Chairman of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, in Urumqi.
Focusing on the freedom of religion and conscience, Gormez said, "The more freely people can practise their religion, the easier it will become to live together in peace. Even minimal oppression will remove peace and tranquillity."
Bekri, on the other hand, expressed his pleasure at the visit by saying it would improve cooperation between the two sides. 
Gormez will also visit the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, largely populated by Muslims, in northwest China where he will attend the first China-Arab States Expo.
'As long as our nation keeps strong our unity, togetherness and solidarity, [we can prevail over terrorism],' Turkish president says
Turkish dailies on Monday reported the identity of the suicide bomber who blew himself up on Istanbul's Istiklal Street
At least 164 people have been held over unauthorised Nevruz demonstrations on Sunday in Istanbul
Turkish president expresses his sorrow over deaths of Israeli and Iranian citizens in Saturday's Istanbul suicide attack
Turkish president says Assad committed state terrorism and must be tried at the International Criminal Court
Turkish president also accuses European Union of being insincere in Turkey's accession process
Turkish FM also calls Belgium counterpart to convey Turkey’s objections to allowing PKK supporters pitch tents in Brussels near EU-Turkey summit venue
Turkish president also slams Belgian government for allowing PKK supporters in Brussels to pitch tents near EU-Turkey summit
Ankara public prosecutor asks Justice Ministry to request Interpol red notice for 47 PKK terrorists, including senior figures
'The attacker has been formally identified' as an ISIL member
Reports suggest ISIL extremists are suspected of being behind the latest attack which targeted Istiklal Caddesi
Victims of the attack are memorialized with carnations; defiant signs go up saying, 'We are not afraid'
Turkish ambassador to the US Serdar Kilic accepts the award on behalf of the Turkish government and people
NATO and EU states also express solidarity with Turkey in aftermath of attack on Istiklal Street
Of the 36 people injured in this mornings suicide bomb in Istiklal Street, 12 of them have been established to be foreigners.
Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu's remarks come during joint press conference with his Iranian counterpart Zarif in Istanbul
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
