2013-07~12
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2013/09/18/Chinese-police-raid-alleged-terror-center-in-Uighur-region/UPI-32781379534518/?spt=hs&or=tn

Chinese police raid alleged terrorist operation in Uighur region - UPI.com
URUMQI, China, Sept. 18 (UPI) -- As many as 12 people were killed in a police raid on an alleged Uighur terrorist center in western China, officials and local residents say.
The raid in the Uighur Xinjiang Autonomous Region occurred Aug. 23 but was not reported for several weeks, Radio Free Asia said. Another police action three days earlier reportedly killed 22 people who were holding prayers in a house.
The Uighurs are ethnically Turkic and are mostly Muslim. The region was incorporated into China several centuries ago.
Nurmemet Tunyaz, a local Communist Party official and head of Jigdejay, the village where the raid on the alleged terrorist center took place, said he was told six people were killed and 20 injured. But he said the actual death toll could be twice that.
"I do not know the details but I have heard that they were making explosives and training in an excavated area," he said in an interview with RFA's Uighur Service. "We did not hear that any police were killed in this shooting. The injured suspects were transported to the county hospital but those killed were buried on the spot."
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.