2013-07~12
http://www.khaleejtimes.com/kt-article-display-1.asp?xfile=data/international/2013/November/international_November66.xml&section=international

Xinjiang military chief punished after Beijing attack: report - Khaleej Times
General Peng Yong, who was named commander of the Xinjiang military region in July 2011, was dismissed from his post as a member of the Standing Committee of the Chinese Communist Party of Xinjiang, the Xinjiang Daily said.
The state-run paper did not give a reason for Peng’s removal but it comes after last Monday’s attack in Tiananmen Square, which was a major embarrassment for the enormous state security apparatus.
Xinjiang has been the scene of several violent clashes, the most recent of which left dozens dead in April, June and August this year.
The plane suffered irreversible damage to parts of its battery system ... READ MORE
The investigating agency relied on audio and video evidences in the case that triggered a political battle between Telangana and Andhra...READ MORE
Five billionaires have confirmed their participation in the event,... READ MORE
He said 'Operation Zarb-e-Azb' is a comprehensive concept against... READ MORE
In order to take advantage of the new provision, applicants need to... READ MORE
The e-Migrate system has backfired with glitches resulting in a major ... READ MORE
The Dubai Police were notified about the suicide attempt by the... READ MORE
24% fuel price hike is fine if salaries rise, say residents
Higher fuel price to hike inflation, but there are benefits
8 Australian men charged with 500 sex offenses against girl
Five reasons Adam Sandler is no longer a movie star
Five reasons Adam Sandler is no longer a movie star
24% fuel price hike is fine if salaries rise, say residents
Men due in court for killing Zimbabwe's Cecil the lion
Child suicide bomber kills 20 in Cameroon, 14 killed in Nigerian blast
Cloudy weather for 2 days in east and south of UAE
Clashes erupt as Israeli police enter Jerusalem's Al Aqsa mosque
Get the latest news around the World in your inbox, so you dont missout on the action.