2013-07~12
http://www.neurope.eu/article/hotel-chinese-police-seek-info-uighur-suspects

Hotel: Chinese police seek info on Uighur suspects
Police cars block off the roads leading into Tiananmen Square as smoke rises into the air after a vehicle crashed in front of Tiananmen Gate in Beijing on October 28, 2013.
BEIJING (AP) — Police investigating the vehicle that plowed through pedestrians and crashed at Beijing’s Forbidden City in an apparent suicide rampage searched Tuesday for information on two ethnic Uighur minority suspects believed linked to the attack, which killed five people and injured 38.
Police released no public information about a possible motive for the incident at one of China’s most politically sensitive and heavily guarded public spaces. But investigators sent a notice to hotels in the city aimed at tracing the recent movements of two suspects in Monday’s attack, and possibly at uncovering any co-conspirators still at-large.
The sport utility vehicle veered inside a barrier separating a crowded sidewalk from a busy avenue and then plowed through pedestrians as it sped toward Tiananmen Gate, where it crashed into a stone structure near a large portrait of Mao Zedong, which hangs near the southern entrance to the former imperial palace.
The vehicle’s three occupants were killed, along with two bystanders, including a Filipino woman. The 38 injured included three other Filipinos and a Japanese man, police said.
The gate stands opposite sprawling Tiananmen Square, which was the focus of the 1989 pro-democracy movement that was violently suppressed by the military, and any incident there is highly sensitive.
Zhao Fuzhou, a security official at Beijing’s Xinjiang Dasha hotel, said police had circulated a notice searching for information about two suspects with Uighur names in the aftermath of Monday’s deaths. A clerk at the Hubei Mansion hotel also confirmed receiving the notice, while employees at other hotels said they’d been told not to discuss the matter.
The notice asked hotels about the two suspects, and to report any suspicious guests or vehicles registered with their establishments going back to Oct. 1. One of the men, identified in the notice as Yusupu Wumaierniyazi, was listed as living at the address of a town in the northwestern Uighur homeland of Xinjiang in which 24 police and civilians and 13 militants were killed in an attack on June 26.
Beijing police referred reporters’ questions to a spokesman whose phone rang unanswered.
Radicals among the Muslim Turkic Uighurs have been fighting a low-intensity insurgency against Chinese rule for years. This summer saw an unusually large number of violent incidents and Chinese security forces say they have been guarding against attacks outside of Xinjiang.
Uighurs are culturally, religiously and linguistically distinct from China’s ethnic Han majority and many have chafed under heavy-handed Communist Party rule.
If intended as a political statement, Monday’s attack could hardly have picked a more significant target. Just west of the square lies the Great Hall of the People, the seat of China’s parliament, while many of China’s top leaders live and work just a few hundred meters (yards) away in the tightly guarded Zhongnanhai compound.
The incident had every appearance of being deliberate, since the driver apparently jumped a curb and traveled about 400 meters (yards) to the spot where the car was said to have caught fire. Along the way, it avoided trees, street lights and at least one security checkpoint. The attackers also struck during the lunch hour when security would have likely been relatively slack.
Witnesses quoted in Chinese media said the SUV driver honked his horn as he drove along the sidewalk, suggesting mass murder was not the intention. Photos showed flames licking the vehicle and a huge cloud of smoke, although there was no word on whether an incendiary device had been activated or shots fired.
“The vehicle ran very fast, I could hear people screaming all the way while the vehicle ploughed through the crowds,” the Global Times newspaper quoted an unidentified female witness as saying.
Authorities moved swiftly to clear the scene of any evidence and nationwide media provided only slight coverage about what had happened.
Philippine Foreign Affairs Department spokesman Raul Hernandez told ABS-CBN TV station in Manila that the Filipino who died was the mother of two daughters and had been vacationing in Beijing. He said her husband and one of her daughters were hospitalized with fractures, while the other daughter suffered only minor injuries.
A Japanese Embassy spokesman, speaking on routine condition of anonymity, said the Japanese citizen remained hospitalized but his injuries were not believed to be life threatening.
Police said the other tourist killed was a Chinese man from the southern province of Guangdong.
In Xinjiang this year, dozens of people have been killed in clashes between security forces and Uighur militants, whom the government says have been inspired by global jihadist teachings. Authorities had earlier warned that extremists were planning attacks outside the region, although none have so far been reported.
However, the militants have inflicted relatively little damage because a smothering security blanket has made organization difficult, denied them safe havens, and severely limited their access to firearms and explosives.
Monday’s incident also revived memories of violent episodes in and around Tiananmen Square. In 2001, five alleged members of the outlawed Falungong spiritual sect set themselves on fire in the square in a protest against government suppression, while three people from Xinjiang protesting land seizures set themselves alight in the busy Wangfujing shopping district just to the east.