2013-07~12
http://columbiadailyherald.com/news/world/five-die-bangladesh-clashes-over-leaders-execution

Five die in Bangladesh clashes over leader's execution | Columbia Daily Herald
Bangladeshi businessmen and others carry white flags as they march calling for peace in Dhaka, Bangladesh, Sunday, Dec. 15, 2013. Many of their businesses suffered because of a string of general strikes and blockades enforced by the opposition in recent months. Police opened fire Sunday to try to stop rampaging activists of an Islamist party who were protesting the execution of one of its leaders, leaving at least three people dead and wounding scores, a doctor said. (AP Photo/A.M. Ahad)
NEW DELHI — Five people were killed Monday in Bangladesh as police and protesters clashed anew over the execution of a senior opposition leader.
The deaths reportedly happened overnight in southeastern district of Satkhira. Police said demonstrators from the Jamaat-e-Islami party, some wielding homemade bombs, attacked security officials.
The clash was the latest violence since Abdul Quader Molla, a top figure in the opposition party, was hanged last week for crimes against humanity dating back to the country’s 1971 war of independence from Pakistan.
Since the execution, about 25 people have been killed in street violence and clashes with authorities.
Molla was the first person to be convicted of war crimes and sent to the gallows — South Asia’s preferred form of execution — since the country gained independence in 1971.
BEIJING — Sixteen people were killed in a clash between Chinese police and ethnic Uighurs near the far western city of Kashgar, one of a string of similar incidents in the ethnically divided region.
The regional government’s website said police were trying to make arrests at 11 p.m. local time Sunday when they were attacked by people who “threw explosive devices and wielded knives.”
“The police dealt with it decisively and shot 14 thugs to death,” Tianshannet, the website of the Xinjiang region, reported. Two policemen were also killed.
China’s Foreign Ministry portrayed the incident in Shufu county, about 12 miles west of Kashgar, as another in a series of terrorist attacks by the Uighurs, who are a mostly Muslim ethnic minority more closely related to the Turks than the Chinese.
With the Syrian humanitarian crisis worsening amid mounting fears of starvation and illness, the United Nations on Monday launched a drive for about $6.5 billion in aid, described as the largest amount ever sought for a single emergency. Speaking in Geneva, U.N. humanitarian chief Valerie Amos, who recently returned from a trip to Syria and Lebanon, cited the plight of “millions of Syrians who are displaced and in urgent need of food, shelter and health care both inside the country and across the region.”
Aid agencies are seeking donations from governments, private organizations and individuals.
JUBA, South Sudan — South Sudan President Salva Kiir on Monday said his army quashed an attempted coup by his former deputy and declared a dusk-to-dawn curfew in the capital Juba, following a night of firefights.
“I would like to inform you all, my dear citizens, that your government is in full control of the security situation in Juba,” said Kiir, promising “justice will prevail.”
The army has been deployed to the streets of the capital.
ROME — A lawyer for the family of murdered British student Meredith Kercher said Monday he was sure she was killed by her flatmate Amanda Knox and Knox’s former Italian boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito.
“We have no doubts about the culpability of the defendants. There are many elements to confirm a guilty ruling,” Francesco Maresca told reporters before delivering his final arguments before Florence’s Court of Appeal.
Kercher, 21, was found Nov. 2, 2007, half-naked and with multiple stab wounds, in the apartment she was sharing with Knox in the central Italian university town of Perugia.
Maresca criticized Knox and Sollecito for “writing books, speaking to newspapers, earning money,” while “nobody remembers Meredith.”
Comments posted below are from readers. In no way do they represent the view of Stephens Media LLC or this newspaper. This is a public forum.
Comments may be monitored for inappropriate content but the newspaper is under no obligation to do so.  Comment posters are solely responsible under the Communications Decency Act for comments posted on this Web site. Stephens Media LLC is not liable for messages from third parties.
IP and email addresses of persons who post are not treated as confidential records and will be disclosed in response to valid legal process. 
If you believe that a commenter has not followed these guidelines, please click the FLAG icon below the comment.