2013-07~12
http://news.tj/en/news/tajik-chinese-researchers-establish-cooperation

Tajik, Chinese researchers establish cooperation | Tajikistan News-NA «Asia-Plus»
DUSHANBE, July 17, 2013, Asia-Plus -- Director of the Institute of Economics and Demography at the Academy of Sciences of Tajikistan, Olimjon Boboyev, yesterday met here with a delegation of Xinjiang University of Finance and Economics (China) on an initiative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI) of Tajikistan.
According to the CCI press center, Tajik researcher briefed his Chinese colleagues on activities of the Tajik Institute of Economics and Demography, which is engaged in studying issues related to modernization of economic sectors, family planning, economic forecasting, and migration problems.
Boboyev, in particular, noted that the Tajik Institute of Economics and Demography also studies a role of China in development of Tajikistan’s economy.  There are also new areas such as management and international marketing, he added.
Chinese researchers, for their part, noted that one of the main areas of researches of Xinjiang University of Finance and Economics is development of economic cooperation between China and Central Asia.
Xinjiang University of Finance and Economics is a university in Urumqi, Xinjiang, China. Founded in 1950, it is the key institution for the study of economics.  There is a total enrolment of more than 20,000 students. There are a total of 1302 staff at the university, including 750 full-time teachers, 36 professors and 215 associate professors.
The institute comprises 14 academic departments namely, banking, finance, accounting, business administration, statistics, information management, economics, marketing, law, computer science, foreign languages, preparatory studies, Chinese language, Marxism & Leninism, physical education, and one affiliated school for adult education.  Among all the departments, finance, accounting and business administration have been chosen as Xinjiang's key provincial disciplines.  The University’s library has more than 600,000 books.