2013-07~12
http://www.scmp.com/comment/insight-opinion/article/1363866/opinions-split-over-stance-take-xinjiang-security

Opinions split over stance to take on Xinjiang security | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Tabloid calls for the authorities to get tougher in dealing with separatists, while regional paper advises conciliatory approach
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
The media on the mainland appears to be in two minds on whether a tough or a soft line is needed to improve security in Xinjiang after suspected separatists attacked a police station.
Two police officers were killed, along with the nine people who carried out the assault on the base in Serikbuya earlier this month armed with knives and axes.
The Global Times, a daily tabloid under the official Communist Party newspaper the People's Daily, ran an editorial urging the local authorities to adopt a more aggressive strategy to suppress anti-government movements in the region. A similar incident occurred in the same area in April, the paper said, and enough was enough.
"Repeated violence against the police shows the suppression of terrorism and extremists in Bachu county is not powerful enough," the editorial said. "It is hoped the government will make big efforts to strengthen the police force in Xinjiang. Give them enough manpower and equipment so the number of deaths and injuries among officers can be reduced to zero when they are again attacked by mobs."
Xinjiang's government should increase the frequency of anti-terrorism exercises, even despite concerns that moves to enforce security might harm economic development, the paper said.
It urged the government to increase the number of Uygurs serving in the police. As most separatists were Uygurs, a strong presence of the ethnic group among law enforcement agencies would not only increase the security forces' efficiency, but also destroy the argument that the attacks were a result of ethnic conflict, it said.
The authorities must also give the police greater freedom to fire at will so they could respond more effectively to any threat, the paper said.
Honorary and monetary awards should be given not just to the families of police killed on duty, but also to those still on the frontline, so that their willingness to fight could be maintained, the editorial argued.
The Global Times also said the central government should step up its ability to combat terrorism so the public could be assured that separatists would know attacks against the state were as hopeless as "an ant biting an elephant".
The Xinjiang Daily, the regional authorities' mouthpiece, took a much softer stance. Economic development was key to bringing social stability, an editorial in the paper said. "In Xinjiang, development is the ultimate task, stability is the ultimate responsibility, reform is the ultimate driving force," the article said. "Development, reform and stability must all aim at winning people's hearts so our government is stable."
The paper stressed the importance of equality among different ethnic groups and urged officials to listen to advice and complaints from all sections of the community. On issues difficult to reach a consensus, the authorities must support the majority's interests. While giving more freedom to the economic sector to stimulate growth, the government must maintain pressure on the separatist movement to ensure social stability in the region, it said.
But an online commentary by a senior police officer in the region rejected any idea of a more conciliatory approach. Iyaxin.com, the region's official news website, posted a commentary by Xinjiang Police College professor Zhang Kunnian , who urged the authorities to use violence against violence.
"Combating violence means using an iron fist to deal with all attacks by terrorists until they are destroyed," Zhang wrote, urging the government to stick to a hardline policy.
The commentary said that Xinjiang authorities had not only used existing techniques to maintain social stability, but also employed security technology, which significantly improved their ability to discover, defend, attack and deal with violent attacks.