2013-07~12
http://www.lawyerherald.com/articles/4295/20131106/explosions-north-china-blasts-outside-communist-party-headquarters-kill-1.htm

Explosions In North China: Blasts Outside Communist Party Headquarters Kill 1 & Injure At Least 8 Others (Video) : Home : Lawyer Herald
A series of small explosions killed one person and injured eight others outside the provincial headquarters of the ruling Communist Party in Taiyuan, a city in Northern China, officials said, as reported by The Associated Press. State media said the blasts, which occurred on Wednesday at about 7:40 a.m. were caused by homemade bombs.
"Judging from the scattering of small metal balls, it is suspected that improvised bombs exploded," the news agency said. An explanation of the motive has not been released. Xinhua "cited residents as saying people in the area scattered after as many as seven blasts went off."
The blasts come a week after the Chinese government blamed three ethnic Uighurs from the western region for staging a terror attack when a car ploughed through bystanders near Tiananmen Square and burst into flames, which killed three people in the car and two bystanders, Reuters reported. 40 people were injured, according to The Christian Science Monitor.
China's has been ramping up security in preparation for a plenum meeting in Beijing to discuss key reforms, news reports saidMost "Chinese bomb explosions are not the work of alleged Muslim extremists, though. Almost always they are set off by Han Chinese, members of the dominant ethnic majority, who do it to express their rage at injustice," The Christian Science Monitor also reported.
‘Godzilla vs King Kong’ to be one of cinema’s greatest clashes; Impressive fan trailer makes waves ahead of 2020 release
‘Avengers: Infinity War’ events set up by ‘Captain America: Civil War’; Brand new characters introduced into the MCU
‘Pitch Perfect 3’: Justin Bieber casting confirmed; Rebel Wilson reunites with co-stars on 36th birthday bash in LA
‘Fast and Furious 8’ officially titled 'Fast 8'; Horse accidentally killed by “flying iceberg” on set


 LG G3 Gets Software Support for Android ... 



 Morgan Huelin Trial Continues as Teenagers Accused Seek Case Dismissal 



 Former Manager of Leeds United Cleared Over Cybercrime Charges 



 Lawmakers Rallies on New Haiti Prime Minister; Expanding More Hurdles in Politically Volatile Nation 



 Ex- Commission Agent for Star Wars Director Rian Johnson is Sued for Breach of Contract 



 Lip Balm Product Lawsuit Case Dismissed by the Federal Court Due to Unfound Violations 
