2013-07~12
http://www.eco-business.com/press-releases/clenergy-supply-for-a-206mw-solar-pv-project-in-chinas-yanqi-county/

Clenergy supply for a 20.6MW solar PV project in China’s Yanqi County | Press Releases | Asia | Sustainable Business
Clenergy completed work in July on a solar PV project in Yanqi County, Xinjiang. Clenergy, the solar park solution provider, worked with the project’s EPC company and its strategic partner, a Xinjiang-based leading enterprise in the power transmission and transformation field, to deliver a tailor-made, C-steel mounting solution including installation service.
Covering more than 562,000 square meters, the solar power plant is located at Yanqi’s New Energy Industrial Park. With its rich solar energy resources and vast deserts, the region is highly suitable for large-scale PV power plants. The natural conditions of the area, however, make construction of solar PV power plants challenging, given the region’s high wind and snow load.
Clenergy’s mounting solution for the project is based on the PV-ezRack SolarTerrace I–B, the company’s low cost C-steel system for large-scale ground mount projects. In addition to SolarTerrace I–B’s strong overall structural strength to resist the local environmental challenges, the tailor-made solution features greater installation efficiency and lower cost, which is engineered with optimized rails and custom key fastening components. The company’s full installation service was completed within the allocated time and budget.
The project is the county’s first utility scale solar power plant and opens the door for the further developments in the county’s renewable energy industry. The local government expects the annual green power production of 27 million kWh, which is planned to solve the local imbalance of electrical supply and demand, and to help boost the local economy.
In 2012, Clenergy and its strategic partner on this project worked together extensively in Xinjiang, with projects such as a 20MW solar project in Keping County. Both companies look forward to continue the cooperation in future projects in Xinjiang and the neighbouring QingHai. The region’s large potential for solar PV development, and the continued efforts by the central government to boost domestic demand present a good foundation for increasing the amount of clean energy in the local energy mix.
Clenergy International (www.clenergy.com) is a leading Sino-Australian joint venture in the solar PV industry, with its headquarters in Xiamen, China, and branch offices in Australia, the United Kingdom, Japan and the United States. Clenergy provides high quality, versatile solar PV mounting products and solutions for commercial, residential and utility-scale customers. Its inverters and power electronics equipment are supplied with full technical and service support. Clenergy is an ISO 9001 accredited company and all of its products comply with international standards. It has been through the focus on quality, innovation and service that Clenergy have been able to achieve rapid growth and build a strong international reputation. Clenergy maintains long-term strategic partnerships with many leading companies in the solar PV industry, and through its partners, provides Clenergy products and solutions in more than 19 countries around the world. For more information, please visit http://www.clenergy.com/