2013-07~12
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/article/1367367/heavily-muslim-xinjiang-focus-most-state-security-arrests

Heavily Muslim Xinjiang focus of most state security arrests | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Three-quarters of arrests on secretive charge on mainland last year were in restive western region, US-based human rights group says
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
About three out of four people arrested on the mainland on suspicion of "endangering state security" last year were from Xinjiang and likely ethnic Uygurs, a US rights group said.
A total of 1,105 people were held on such charges last year, a rise of 19 per cent over the previous year, according to analysis of official state statistics by the San Francisco-based Dui Hua Foundation.
Endangering state security comprises a total of 12 crimes under the country's Criminal Law, seven of which are potentially punishable by death.
Dui Hua said few details were given of endangering state security cases as they were considered state secrets, but it estimated that 75 per cent of trials on such charges last year took place in Xinjiang, a region that Beijing calls a separatist hotbed. Many of the remainder held on the charges were ethnic Tibetans.
Dui Hua collated the figures from the official China Year Lawbook. The rise in arrests was due to the authorities efforts to "fight the crimes of splittism, subversion and terrorism'', the foundation said, citing the lawbook.
"Due to real and perceived independence movements, Uygurs and ethnic Tibetans bear the brunt of crackdowns on splittism," the group said.
"The level of transparency is quite low,'' said Dui Hua's founder John Kamm. "Uygur names are sometimes given to highlight the success of the anti-terrorism attacks in Xinjiang.
"We hear of these cases from family members. Every now and then we get it from state media. Verdicts are considered state secrets, too. In provinces like Guangdong, they don't like the publicity associated with endangering state security, which is known to be a political crime, so they change it to graft."
Charges under endangering state security includes treason, subversion and separatist acts.
Kamm points out it is often at the discretion of judicial authorities to charge a suspect for endangering state security or for the lesser criminal defence of disrupting social order.
Authorities in Beijing last month said suspected Uygur separatists were behind an incident in Tiananmen Square in which an SUV crashed into a barrier and burst into flames, killing three people inside and two bystanders.
"Separatists" were also blamed this month for an attack on a police station in Xinjiang that killed 11 people. Xinjiang witnessed 190 "terrorist" incidents last year, according to the state-run magazine Outlook.
At their third plenum in Beijing earlier this month, leaders announced that a new state security committee would be set up to co-ordinate the response to what it described as the rising internal and external threats to the nation's security.
The peak in arrests for endangering state security was in 2008 and coincided with a series of riots in Tibet and efforts to stifle dissent ahead of the Beijing Olympics, according to Dui Hua.
The charge is often made against members of ethnic minorities accused of separatist activities or leaking state secrets, whereas Han Chinese are more likely to face subversion charges, the report said.
Dui Hua has a database of political prisoners, but only has details of 17 cases of endangering state security last year because of the secrecy surrounding them.
Among the cases was that of the former head of the Chongqing police, Wang Lijun , who was jailed for 15 years for abuse of power after he covered up a murder involving the wife of his boss, Bo Xilai , Dui Hua said.