2013-07~12
http://www.worldbulletin.net/?aType=haber&ArticleID=118483

Uighurs praying towards Chinese flag | Islamic World | Worldbulletin News
Authorities have placed a Chinese flag at the head of a mosque in Uighur Autonomous Region, forcing ethnic Uighurs to bow to it when they worship, Uighur activists said. 
The local government in the Uighur Autonomous Region’s Aksu area placed the flag over the mihrab -- the traditional prayer niche that points the direction to Mecca -- prominent Uighur rights advocate Ilham Tohti told Al Jazeera.
He called it an effort to “dilute the religious environment” in the area, where minority Uighurs often complain of ethnic and religious repression.
Al Jazeera was not able to independently verify the report at time of publication, and Aksu officials did not respond to multiple calls for comment.
Reports from Uighurs in the area said the placement of the flag has upset residents amid a series of fresh religious restrictions, which analysts say Beijing hopes will integrate Uighurs into Chinese society and pacify the strategically important region. The region is perennially rocked by clashes between Muslim Uighurs and China’s majority ethnic Han Chinese.
“They placed the flag at a very sensitive place in the mosque,” Tohti said, explaining that he has seen Chinese flags prominently positioned in mosques in China before -- but never in such a sensitive spot.
Tohti noted that Muslims pray facing Mecca in Saudi Arabia, but Chinese law and authorities demand unwavering allegiance to Beijing.
“They are essentially saying the flag is higher than religion,” he said.
According to newly released data collected in 11 countries with significant Muslim populations, views of ISIL group are overwhelmingly negative
Gentle hearted Saladin Ayyubi, was one of the world's greatest warriors - chivalrous, humane, agile, brilliant and courageous. On October 2nd 1187, 828 years ago yesterday, Jerusalem was liberated pushing back the surging wave of Christianity out to engulf the Holy Land.



 he conquered Jerusalem, pushing back the surging wave of Christianity out to engulf the Holy Land.
Muslims around the world have gathered in open parks and mosques, celebrating the Greater Eid, Eid ul Adha, known as the Feast of Sacrifice
More than two million pilgrims have gathered in the Arafat valley for a day of prayer, marking the pinnacle of hajj in Saudi Arabia.
For first time ever, Kenya is sending a record number 4,500 Muslims to Makkah for Hajj
Worldbulletin presents a photo essay of Muslims celebrating Eid ul Fitr around the world
Eid al-Fitr starts Friday in Turkey and lasts through Sunday.
Muslims gathered from across Saudi Arabia and the world to pray Taraweeh prayer on Ramadan’s 27th night
With the end of Ramadan approaching, shoppers in Ramadan hit the markets to do their food, clothing and gift shopping.
Knowing the correct time of the day for daily affairs is important and it is the inventions from Muslim scientists who have impacted current clock technologies.
Ramadan, the Muslim holy month of fasting, has begun and World Bulletin has put together pictures that showcases Muslims from across the Islam world during this sacred month.
In Addis Ababa, turnout at mosques was so high that main streets had to be closed to make way for worshippers
West Bank cities are being decorated to celebrate holy month of Ramadan with Ramallah lighting the biggest lantern for Ramadan
According to a report by Calico Mercato website, the amount will be used to develop mosques and Islamic centers in Florence province.
Quran prints that were written during the Prophet Muhammads lifetime are now on display at the Berlin State Library
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
