2013-07~12
http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/tiananmen-square-crash-labelled-a-terrorist-suicide-attack-1.2288037

Tiananmen Square crash labelled a terrorist suicide attack - World - CBC News

CBC News

Posted: Oct 30, 2013 6:13 AM ET
Last Updated: Oct 30, 2013 8:26 AM ET


 Five people were killed, including three inside the vehicle and two bystanders, after an SUV veered inside a barrier separating a crowded sidewalk from a busy avenue and then drove toward Tiananmen Gate opposite the sprawling Tiananmen Square. Another 38 people were injured. (Weibo)
Five people have been arrested in connection with what Chinese police are labelling a terrorist suicide attack at Beijing's Forbidden City earlier this week. 
The perpetrators who were killed Monday after their SUV plowed through crowds and exploded near Tiananmen Square have been identified by Beijing police as a man with an ethnic Uighur name, his wife and his mother.
Police say the attack was carefully planned, and the SUV contained knives, iron rods, gasoline and a flag imprinted with religious slogans. 
The five others arrested also had names identifying them as members of the Turkic Muslim Uighur ethnic group native to the restive northwestern region of Xinjiang, where extremists have been battling security forces for years. 
They were caught with the help of the Xinjiang government about 10 hours after the attack, and helped plan and execute it, according to police. Authorities say they were on the run, but it's unclear where they were arrested. Police found Islamic militant flags at their temporary lodgings. 
Two bystanders, including a Filipino woman, were also killed after a vehicle veered inside a barrier separating a crowded sidewalk from a busy avenue and then drove toward Tiananmen Gate, which is opposite the sprawling Tiananmen Square. Another 38 people were injured. 
The area is heavily guarded and is politically sensitive because it was the focus of a 1989 pro-democracy movement that was violently put down by security forces. 
Some in Xinjiang chafe under what they see as the excessive religious and cultural control by Beijing, and the region has seen sporadic outbreaks of violence between Uighurs and ethnic Han Chinese migrants. 
China blames Uighur militants for provoking the unrest, but many human rights groups say Beijing exaggerates the threat to justify its harsh rule. 
Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time.
Note: The CBC does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted. By submitting your comments, you acknowledge that CBC has the right to reproduce, broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever. Please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines.
'For more than half a century the sight of a U.S. president here in Havana would have been unimaginable. But this is a new day between our 2 countries'
Leaders discuss range of topics from sovereignty to human rights
French police say man's DNA connected to last year's deadly terrorist attacks
Barack Obama and Raul Castro 'are trying to change the psychological relationship between two countries,' says Canada's former ambassador to Cuba
Canada's destination for original journalism and stories with added depth and context.
Barack Obama brings message of change to Cuba, meeting with Raul Castro
Federal budget 2016: 4 things First Nation leaders are watching for
CBC Forum: What do you hope to see in the federal budget?
Tim Bosma trial: Dellen Millard's texts about missing man revealed
Amber Alert baby's dad won't be charged for leaving child in running car
Jury awards Hulk Hogan $25M US in punitive damages in Gawker sex video trial
Student hat banned as 'gang wear' sold widely in mainstream fashion stores
WOW Air moves up Canadian launch date and expands flights
Buy travel health insurance, end up with less coverage: A couple's hard lesson
Justice Ian Binnie cuts senators' expenses owed in 10 of 14 cases