2013-07~12
http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/china-blames-xinjiang-s-islamic-militants-for-tiananmen-attack-113103101116_1.html

China blames Xinjiang's Islamic militants for Tiananmen attack | Business Standard News


 Press Trust of India  | 
 Beijing  

October 31, 2013 Last Updated at 20:40 IST


China today said the al-Qaeda linked East Turkistan Islamic Movement, which wants to establish an Islamic state in restive Xinjiang province, was behind the October 28 suicide car crash at the iconic Tiananmen square that left at least five persons dead. "I want to say that the East-Turkishtan terrorists, in order to achieve the goal of splitting China and establishing a so-called East Turkishtan Islamic state in Xinjiang have long been involved in anti-China terrorist activities and even colluded with international terrorist groups to carry out terrorist activities in China," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing here today. Accusing the ETIM of trying to sabotage China's development and stability, Hua said, "We hope that the international community will see clearly through that and we also hope that the media when making reports and remarks will have comprehensive understanding of the incident." Asked whether the five arrested suspected militants have undergone training in Pakistan, Afghanistan or Syria, Hua said she has nothing to add to the details released by police in connection with this incident. She said this kind of violent terrorist attack targeted innocent civilian and tourists is an action against humanity, society and civilians. "People with conscience should condemn this activity with one voice," she said. A responsible government will not condone this kind of violent terrorist attack, Hua said. She said Chinese government is opposed to terrorism in all manifestations. "We are opposed to adoption of the double standards in counter-terrorism issues and we are also opposed to linking terrorism with certain Ethnic group, nation and religion. Some people attempt to link a small group of extremists with China's policy on Ethnic Groups and religion; this is extremely wrong and is also of ulterior motive. I think people should be kindly aware of that," she said.
However, inflows remain robust in despite a 6.5% crack in key stock indices
Copyrights © 2015 Business Standard Private Ltd. All rights reserved.