2013-07~12
http://www.thepigsite.com/swinenews/34446/no-prospect-of-ukrainianchinese-cooperation-yet-on-pig-production

No Prospect of Ukrainian-Chinese Co-operation Yet on Pig Production - The Pig Site
UKRAINE & CHINA - The Ukrainian cereal, vegetable and pig-producing company at the centre of recent news reports says there is no agreement with its Chinese partner to cooperate beyond the installation of drip irrigation systems.
The news published in the media about a Xinjiang corporation and KSG Agro does not reflect the reality, according to KSG Agro.
The company says that, on 31 May 2013, KSG Agro signed a letter of intent with Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, China National Corporation for Overseas Economic Cooperation and China-Ukraine International Engineering Cooperation Association Limited.
The letter of intent discusses the issue of cooperation between the Chinese corporations and KSG Agro in areas of business interest for the agricultural holding, in particular, in the areas of efficiency improvements, the installation of drip irrigation systems and the application of modern agricultural technologies.
In July and August 2013, a group of Chinese specialists visited Ukraine. Official meetings were held in the Dnipropetrovsk Regional State Administration and the local government of Crimea. There was ample media coverage of the results of these meetings and possibilities of cooperation.
At the moment, KSG Agro says it and its Chinese partners are working on a contract for cooperation in the execution of a project aimed at the installation of drip irrigation systems over an area of 3,000 hectares in 2014. The Chinese party is interested in investing in and delivering equipment for the drip irrigation systems.
This is just the first stage of a project that may in the future gradually expand to cover more areas covered by the drip irrigation systems as well as the first stage of cooperation in the area of application of modern technologies in crop production, vegetable growing and pig farming.
KSG Agro does not intend or have any right to sell land to foreigners, including the Chinese.