2013-07~12
http://www.upi.com/blog/2013/11/06/Explosions-in-north-China-kill-1-injure-8/5671383765954/

Suspected homemade bomb explosion kills 1 in north China - UPI.com
(UPI) -- Explosions likely caused by homemade bombs detonated near a Communist Party office in northern China Wednesday morning, killing at least one person and injuring eight others.
Police in Shanxi province said the explosions occurred around 7:40 a.m. local time in Taiyun, damaging two cars, and scattering ball bearings that appeared to have come from inside the improvised explosive devices, according to the state news agency Xinhua.
Security forces throughout China have been on high alert since an incident in Tiananmen Square on October 28, in which a vehicle barreled through a crowd and caught fire, killing two people as well as the three occupants of the truck. That crash has since been called a terrorist attack, blamed by officials on the Uighur Muslim separatist movement.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.