2013-07~12
http://ajw.asahi.com/article/asia/china/AJ201310290076

Beijing security blames Uighur men for fatal Tiananmen crash - AJW by The Asahi Shimbun
BEIJING--Beijing public security authorities believe that two men from a violence-scarred autonomous region in western China are responsible for a seemingly intentional deadly crash near the city's landmark Tiananmen Gate on Oct. 28, according to sources.
The Public Security Management Corps at the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau sent out notices that said “a serious incident occurred in the city on Oct. 28,” according to the sources in hotels in the capital. The notices were issued between Oct. 28 and Oct. 29.
One of the notices listed the names of two men from the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, their ID card numbers and their permanent domicile, as being involved in the crash, which killed five people and injured nearly 40. It also listed the license plate numbers of four vehicles as “suspected illegal vehicles.”
The men’s names are common among ethnic minorities, including Muslim Uighurs, in western China. The vehicles’ license plate numbers are from the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region where a growing violent protest movement against the Chinese government is intensifying due to widespread distrust of and discontent with its policy of tight restrictions toward ethnic minorities.
Elements apparently supporting the independence of the Uighur minority have been involved in repeated attacks on police stations and passers-by in the region, prompting the government to make stability there a priority.
The notice produced by Beijing public security authorities calls on operators of hotels and other accommodations to report to authorities immediately if they have any information on the suspects, after checking guest names and their vehicles from Oct. 1.
Several operators told The Asahi Shimbun that they received a similar notice from authorities.
But the document did not give details of the “serious incident.” It did not explain how the suspects were identified, either.
An official with the Public Security Management Corps declined to comment in an interview with The Asahi Shimbun over the notice.
“We cannot comment on the notice at all,” the official said.
The vehicle rammed through a crowd on a walkway for about 500 meters near the Tiananmen Gate here around noon on Oct. 28. It caught fire after slamming into a structure near the gate. Among the dead were three occupants of the vehicle. A Japanese man was also injured, but not critically.
Many speculate that the driver deliberately caused the crash. A 58-year-old man from Hunan province who was on the scene said, “The driver swerved and drove over the walkway intentionally.”
His wife was injured in the crash, suffering a fractured bone.
An employee with a travel agency who reportedly was on the scene at the time of the incident said, “The car was plowing into (the crowd) with an occupant waving a dark flag.”
Some eyewitnesses gave accounts that the flag bore letters used by an ethnic minority. Others said the occupants of the vehicle looked like the ethnic minority in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region.
The incident at the Chinese Communist Party’s “holy site"--where Mao Tse-tung declared the founding of a new China in 1949--and an internationally renowned tourist hotspot--sent shock waves through the Chinese public.
The incident took place despite constant, heavy security around the area, which is also close to the Zhongnanhai compound, where top leaders live and work.
It also came at a sensitive time when the Chinese Communist Party is expected to hold the third plenary session of its Central Committee next month.
Most of Chinese newspapers in their Oct. 29 edition carried coverage on the incident by the official Xinhua News Agency, which reported how the crash occurred and the number of casualties. However, it is clear the Chinese Communist Party is placing a tight lid on information.
The Global Times, which carries international news, appealed to the public not to overreact to the crash, saying, “We do not need to overestimate the problem more than what it is really about.”
The area around Tiananmen Gate has been open to the public since the morning on Oct. 29. The scene of the incident was completely cleaned up by the night of Oct. 28, with few traces of the crash remaining.
China has seen a recent spell of incidents in which citizens committed attacks out of frustration over growing income disparity, forced relocation due to urban development projects, flaws in the nation's health-care system and other problems.
Their disgruntlement is further fueled by authorities’ failure to listen to their complaints.
In June, 47 were killed after a man in his late 50s set fire to a public bus in Amoy, Fujian province. The man, who was among the dead, left a note saying he was venting pent-up frustration over the difficulty of making a living, according to municipal authorities.
In July, a man in a wheelchair detonated a handmade explosive at the Capital International Airport in Beijing, injuring a police officer. The man, who is from Shandong province, is believed to have committed the crime out of anger over the fact that he could not receive sufficient redress for his impairment, which was caused by security officers' assault on him.
A protest movement against the Chinese government is also intensifying in the Tibet Autonomous Region. More than 100 people, most of them Tibetan monks, have burned themselves to death in protest there since 2009.
The top priority for the nation's leadership, led by Chinese President Xi Jinping, is to alleviate public discontentment and to bring about stability.
To that end, the leadership launched new efforts to crack down on corruption among bureaucrats and to raise awareness among senior party officials that they are there to serve the public, as well as offering a tax break for small businesses.
A political scientist championing for reform is skeptical about whether such governmental efforts will make a difference.
“The leadership is merely churning out programs that sound nice,” the scholar said.
(This article was written by Nozomu Hayashi and Nanae Kurashige in Beijing.)
A road near the Tiananmen Gate in Beijing where a vehicle caught fire after a crash on Oct. 28 is blockaded later that day with heavy security guard. (Nanae Kurashige)
China says little to cheer in improved ties with 'two-faced' Japan
BEIJING--China sees little reason for optimism that relations with Japan will improve, China's Foreign Minister said on Tuesday, accusing "two-faced" Tokyo of constantly seeking to make trouble.
BEIJING--China is planning to construct a 126-kilometer undersea tunnel to create a high-speed rail link between the mainland and Taiwan.
Chinese tycoon and government critic silenced as microblog account closed
BEIJING--Chinese real estate tycoon Ren Zhiqiang’s Weibo microblog account was shut down on the orders of the Chinese government on Feb. 28 after he used it to criticize the state-run media’s policies.
Role as China's first lady silences voice of popular singer
BEIJING--In China in the early 1980s, singer Peng Liyuan became a household name.
China's Xi sets up five new 'battle zones' in military reform push
BEIJING--China on Monday inaugurated the military's five new "battle zones," the Defense Ministry said, the latest step in President Xi Jinping's efforts to reform the country's armed forces.
Copyright The Asahi Shimbun Company. All rights reserved. No reproduction or republication without written permission.