2013-07~12
http://www.politico.com/politico44/2013/07/obama-administration-sends-two-guantanamo-detainees-169303.html

Obama administration plans to send two Guantanamo detainees to Algeria - POLITICO
The unfavorable ratings are the highest in the history of the poll asking the question, dating back to 1984.
"I didn’t come here tonight to pander to you about Israel."
The Justice Department asked to postpone a court hearing set for Tuesday.
Three ridiculous stunts I'm refusing to cover, and why you should ignore them too.
Bernie Sanders has won a primary of American expatriates whom Democrats invite to participate in the party's presidential nominating process.
The network cut away from the press conference entirely at one point.
It's gotten so small-ball that one congressman introduced a bill to recognize the significance of magic.
Clinton launched her most pointed attack yet on the Republican front-runner.
In a historic press conference, Obama not only allowed Castro to be pressed on political prisoners. He joined in himself.
Trump called Warren "the Indian," recalling her past claims of Native American heritage.
Join POLITICO’s Pro Health Care team for a conversation on the U.S. opioid crisis. With the recent release of the CDC’s voluntary prescribing guideline,...
"We are really gratified with the results," Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates told reporters Monday. "We are bringing fewer but more impactful...
"There are profound differences between our countries that will not go away," Castro says.
Congressional delegations traveling to Israel are common, but the trip is more significant due to Ryan's role as House Speaker.

 By Eli Stokols, Seung Min Kim and Burgess Everett
‘The theme of the meeting is party unity, which we need,’ Rep. DesJarlais said.
Kountoupes for CVS — Balch & Bingham, Maynard Cooper & Gale for Blue Origin
He says he plans to announce more names in the coming days.
"Ted Cruz is a consistent conservative who understands the importance of federalism."
The Senate should consider President Barack Obama's Supreme Court nominee regardless of the fact that it comes at the end of his term.
“Granted, both sides have to disavow violence," he also says.
Trump is a "loser," she tweeted, and he knows it.
In her speech before AIPAC, the former secretary of state calls a Trump presidency 'unthinkable.'
A vote for John Kasich is a vote for Donald Trump, Mitt Romney is telling prospective voters in Utah and Arizona ahead of Tuesday contests in those states.
Part B pricing wars rage on — FDA guidance could impact some biologic exclusivity
"We cannot be ‘neutral' in defending our allies,” Kasich is expected to say.
Orders issued Monday morning pulled Garland from three-judge panels set to hear a total of six cases on April 14 and 15.
Although his role at the State Department prevents him from weighing in on the election, Todd Stern had some kind words for his former boss.
U.S. official touts oil exports in Brussels — McCarthy, Moniz continue Capitol Hill budget tours
Malmström defends EU market access offer — Labor Dept. keeping its eyes on Peru
FAH concerned about rise of 'skinny' plans — Could Zika be America's summer panic?
FBI investigating alleged cybersecurity extortion firm — The case of the missing IT expert
FCC names aspiring bidders in auction (kind of) — Court denies broadcasters attempts to delay
The Defense Department notified Congress on Friday that it intends to send two Guantanamo Bay detainees back to Algeria, White House press secretary Jay Carney said in a statement.
"As the president has said, the United States remains determined to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay," Carney said, and the repatriation of the two detainees -- the first releases this year -- are "in support of those efforts."
"We are taking this step in consultation with the Congress, and in a responsible manner that protects our national security," he added.
Two Uyghurs -- Chinese Muslims -- were released to El Salvador in 2012, and Omar Khadr, a Canadian national, was sent home in September 2012 to finish out the remainder of his sentence. The most recent round of repatriation outside the Western Hemisphere happened in early 2010 and included the return of two Algerians to their home country.
"We continue to call on Congress to join us in supporting these efforts by lifting the current restrictions that significantly limit our ability to transfer detainees out of Guantanamo, even those who have been approved for transfer," Carney said. 
The Obama administration has been calling on Congress to end the ban on repatriating Guantanamo detainees to Yemen, which was put in place soon after the attempted Christmas Day 2009 bombing by a suspect who was trained in Yemen.
Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) met with White House officials including counsel Kathy Ruemmler and counterterrorism adviser Lisa Monaco last week to discuss the release of some detainees.
Feinstein said in a statement Friday that she supports the administrations plan to repatriate the two detainees and that it is "an important step toward closing the prison once and for all."
“I renew my call to send the other 84 detainees cleared for transfer out of Guantanamo," she added. "These transfers have been impeded by congressional action, and I strongly support the provisions in this year’s defense authorization bill, as approved by the Senate Armed Services Committee, that will provide more flexibility to the commander-in-chief.”