2013-07~12
http://www.pv-tech.org/news/punjab_offered_3.2gw_electricty_from_china_in_solar_visit

Punjab offered 3.2GW electricty by China during solar visit | PV-Tech

 The Chief Minister of Punjab, Shahbaz Sharif has been offered 3.2GW of exported electricity from China during a visit to discuss joint solar ventures.

 The source of the electricity has not been disclosed.

 The visit’s purpose was to discuss solar energy development to meet the current 5-6GW shortfall responsible for the current load-shedding energy crisis. Sharif said he was seeking joint solar ventures not direct aid from China.

 He used the trip to visit solar power plants, and met with Masood Khalid, an ambassador for the foreign affairs office of the Xinjiang Autonomous Region, and Li Jian Hua, CEO of the TBEA Group the largest EPC company in China, according to NPD Solarbuzz.

 After visiting a solar plant in Xinjiang, Sharif writing on his Facebook page said: “Addressing the energy crisis is one of the top priorities of the present government and in this visit is totally meant to find a quick feasible solution to this problem.”

 He also noting China’s “keen interest and cooperation in addressing [the] energy crisis and infrastructure development of the country".

 Sharif also said in another Facebook statement, published yesterday, that: “Meeting the energy shortfall will regalvanise economic activity, unleash an era of economic prosperity and brighten the country’s future.”

 Sharif told reporters during the trip that China had also agreed to assist in building a solar cell factory to boost Pakistan’s domestic manufacturing.

 Sharif also mentioned the 1GW project underway by Powerway Group and Nizam.

 It is unclear whether the latest offer from China for electricity exports will dampen the minister's enthusiasm for solar energy.

 A memorandum of understanding for 150MW of solar in Lahore was recently signed between the Pakistani government and China North Industries Corporation (NORINCO), as well as a consortium of European countries.

 Sharif also signed an MoU for a coal project between Qatar, China and Pakistan in September 2013 in an effort to heal the energy crisis.

 The Quaid-e-Azam solar park, a 700MW project is also in the final approval stages for the first tranche of 100MW.

 The Punjab government also has an earlier MoU in place with German solar company AEG, which is planning to build 450MW of PV in the province. It is also in discussion with the UK about PV cooperation.

 Pakistan also set up a joint venture yesterday with Switzerland based renewable energy engineers, meeco service’s Pakistan subsidiary. The joint venture is to be named OurSun Solar Power and has already secured 1.7MW of PV projects in Lahore, with meeco to provide EPC services.
PV integrator Phoenix Solar is to build a 65MW project in the US state of Nevada for developer Invenergy.
Major PV materials provider DuPont highlighted in its fourth quarter 2015 earnings call that pricing pressure on its ‘Solamet’ silver metallisation paste products had impacted revenue in its Electronics & Communications business segment.
China has officially overtaken Germany as the world’s leader in installed solar capacity after Beijing confirmed that 15.13GW was added in 2015.
According to SolarWorld’s 186-page annual report for 2015, and a presentation by Dr. Holger Neuhaus, Managing Director, SolarWorld Innovations GmbH at the inaugural PV CellTech conference held in Malaysia last week, high-efficiency products will be the key focus of its expanded manufacturing capacity and technology migrations in 2016.
Former major PV equipment provider, GT Advanced Technologies (GTAT) has successfully emerged from chapter 11 bankruptcy in the District of New Hampshire, US after seeking protection in October, 2014.
Mongolia’s mostly untapped renewable resources could be used to kick-start a major cross border power corridor between Russia, Mongolia, China, South Korea and Japan, according to a new study.
We send out a daily email newsletter with the latest in depth news and analysis. Here is a preview.