2013-07~12
http://www.irishsun.com/index.php/sid/216422401/scat/b8de8e630faf3631

Two get death sentence for violence in China's Xinjiang - Irish Sun
• Xinjiang is home to the Muslim Uighur minority, who make up about 45% of the region's population but say an influx of Han Chinese residents has marginalised their traditional culture.
• The authorities often blame violent incidents in Xinjiang on Uighur extremists seeking autonomy for the region
• The government said the violence started when security officials were attacked while investigating suspicious behavior at a home.
BEIJING - A court in China's Xinjiang region has sentenced two people to death and another to life imprisonment over deadly clashes in the far western region that left 21 people dead.
The incident happened on April 23 in a town in Kashgar prefecture. Fifteen officials or security personnel were among those killed.
China said it was a planned attack by a "violent terrorist group".
But other accounts dispute this, attributing the confrontation to ethnic tensions in the restive region.
Chinese state media said that after a one-day trial in the Xinjiang city of Kashgar, Musa Hesen and Rehman Hupur were both sentenced to death for murder and their alleged involvement in a terrorist group.
State reports said Hesen was the leader and founder of the group and that he was also involved in the illegal manufacture of explosives.
Sentences for the three other men ranged from nine years to life in prison.
e ethnicity of the defendants was not given. But their names suggest they belong to the Turkic-speaking Uighur minority that has long complained of state discrimination in the remote and predominantly Muslim region.
Xinjiang is home to the Muslim Uighur minority, who make up about 45% of the region's population but say an influx of Han Chinese residents has marginalised their traditional culture.
The authorities often blame violent incidents in Xinjiang on Uighur extremists seeking autonomy for the region.
While foreign journalists are allowed to travel to the region, they frequently face intimidation and harassment when attempting to verify news of ethnic rioting or organised violence against government authorities.
The BBC team that visited the site of the incident to try to clarify details were taken by police to a government compound and subsequently ordered to leave.
In total, 19 people were arrested in the wake of the April 23 clash and more trials are expected. The April violence left 15 police and community workers dead. The attack and the funerals that followed received intense media coverage in China.
Authorities tightly control journalists' access to the region, making it difficult to independently verify accounts of violence in Xinjiang, beyond what is reported by state-backed media.
Family members of the security personnel killed in the April clash told Chinese language media that the men were planning to carry out a major attack the day after the incident occurred.
The government said the violence started when security officials were attacked while investigating suspicious behavior at a home.
But some exiled Uighur activists said the violence was caused by the
a young Uighur boy. Others have suggested the dispute was long-standing and that it was linked to demands that men shave their beards and women remove their veils.
The Xinjiang government did not name any group responsible for the violence, but China has blamed previous incidents in energy-rich Xinjiang - on the borders of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India - on Islamic separatists who want to establish an independent East Turkestan.
Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the exiled World Uyghur Congress, said previously that the violence was sparked by the shooting and killing of a young Uighur by "Chinese armed personnel", prompting the Uighurs to retaliate, said Reuters
by Muhammad Aamir SHARJAH, 21st March, 2016 (WAM) -- Shamma bint Sohail Faris AlMazrui, Minister of State for Youth Affairs, has put forward the suggestion of governmental interaction departments to enable two-way communication with the youth of the UAE.
"As a government, we face a big challenge and this is not just in the UAE but all around the world, which is getting information through social media and smart phones that poses another question for us, that is, 'what are the channels which we have to use in governmental communication to reach the youth?'. The answer to this question is important but what is more important is finding its solution. The practical solution is the two way communications, from the youth and to them," she said in her speech on the second day of the International Government Communication Forum, IGCF 2016, at the Sharjah Expo Centre.
She added, "We talk to the youth and do not listen to them, and we cannot blame the youth for not interacting with us if we do not spend the additional effort in the whole communication with them regarding the matters which are important to them. Perhaps reality soon will force us to change the names of the governmental communication departments to departments of governmental interaction and not just communication. This is the suggestion which I present today through this platform. Yes, youth wants departments of governmental interaction more than communication which is a one way path."
She thanked H.H. Dr. Sheikh Sultan bin Mohammed Al Qasimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Sharjah, for his keenness for youth and education, saying that Sharjah has one of the biggest academic complexes in the region. She said, "It is well known that education, science and knowledge enable youth, and open new horizons of the future for them. Therefore, we thank H.H. the Ruler of Sharjah for the role he played in changing their lives."
Present on the occasion were Sheikha Bodour bint Sultan Al Qasimi, Chairperson of Sharjah Investment and Development Authority, Shurooq, Sheikh Sultan bin Ahmed Al Qasimi, Chairman of Sharjah Media Centre, SMC, Mary Robinson, former President of Ireland (1990-1997) and former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (1997-2002), and Christopher Gardner, author and entrepreneur.
The Minister of State for Youth Affairs said, "Our leadership gives great attention to direct communication through all available channels within all sectors of the society, and of course under this belief is the necessity of listening to citizens and communicating with them.
"Vice President and Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, listens to everyone in society and asks for their opinions regarding matters which are important to them through different platforms.
"His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces also interacts with all sectors of society directly through his field visits. All our leaders are role models. They present to us the best example of interaction and communication with all sectors of society."
"H.H. the Ruler of Sharjah interacts with everyone and communicates with different segments of society, never hesitating to interact with them, even directly live on the radio."
She added, "At the UAE Youth Council, we are listening to the youth about matters which are important to them and we also encourage the youth in finding the best solutions for their issues. But in order to achieve this goal, we need our government speech to be two way, from the youth and to the youth.
"We need our speech and government communication to be modern, using the language of the youth. If we want to understand the youth, all of our governmental communication departments must open direct and diverse channels with them, and we have to be where they are, and communicating with them through the use of the same modern technology which they use, listening to their voices, opinions and aspirations, otherwise we would be left, in the words of H.H. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, 'Swimming against the currents'."
DONEGAL, Ireland - Several emergency response teams have gathered at the location of a tragic ...
CORK, Ireland - A man in his early 70s is said to have died on ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - Hundreds of passengers were left in the lurch after dozens of flights ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - Gardai have made another breakthrough in the probe relating to the horrific ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - A huge amount of money that was allocated by a European fund ...
Get the latest Irish Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Irish Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved