2013-07~12
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-china-23157402

China media: Security in Xinjiang - BBC News
Media continue to discuss the tense security situation in Xinjiang and also shine a spotlight on labour camp detentions.
The Xinjiang Daily and other state-run media carry a police "wanted" list for 11 suspects allegedly involved in eight cases of murder or bombings dating back to June 2011 in Xinjiang, which is home to the minority Muslim Uighur population.
Media are also carrying government notices announcing a reward for tip-offs on "terrorists" and banning knives longer than 22cm or with blades longer than 15cm, explosives and separatist "propaganda".
Residents must hand over banned items to the police within 10 days or face "severe punishment", reads one of the notices.
According to state media, at least 35 people were killed when "knife-wielding thugs" attacked a police station in Shanshan county in Turpan prefecture on 26 June.
Then on 28 June, up to 100 people on motorcycles attacked a police station in Hotan.
Chinese authorities blame "terrorists" and separatists with overseas backing for violent unrest in Xinjiang. Exiled Uighur groups, however, say Beijing's heavy-handed rule is triggering ethnic tensions.
The flow of information out of Xinjiang is heavily controlled so it is difficult to verify the details of incidents.
Pan Zhiping, a researcher with the Xinjiang Academy of Social Sciences, tells the Global Times that "terrorists" were retaliating ahead of the fourth anniversary of inter-ethnic violence in the regional capital Urumqi on 5 July 2009 that left nearly 200 people, mostly Han Chinese, dead.
Jiang Zhaoyong, a Beijing-based expert on minority affairs, tells the South China Morning Post that the police's reliance on the public for tip-offs merely shows the "incompetence of the entire public security system and the inefficiency of anti-terrorist mechanisms".
In other news, the China Youth Daily says "petitioning mum" Tang Hui, who was sent to a labour camp after seeking justice for the rape of her daughter, received an apology from the police chief who sent her there during an appeal on Tuesday at a high court in Hunan province.
The Beijing Youth Daily commentator Li Xingwen expresses hope that Ms Tang wins her long-running battle for compensation and that her case will mark a turning point in abolishing labour camp detention without trial.
The People's Daily commentator Jia Zhuang welcomes an anti-monopoly probe into foreign infant milk producers, but says consumer confidence in domestic producers urgently needs to be restored as cheaper foreign milk powder will put even greater pressure on home-grown brands.
Nestle, Abbott Laboratories, Mead Johnson Nutrition, Danone's Dumex brand and Wyeth Nutrition are under investigation for allegedly inflating prices as high as 30% since 2008.
The Guangzhou Daily says the survival of domestic milk producers will be even harder if foreign brands become cheaper because public trust in China's dairy industry has yet to recover from a melamine-tainted milk scandal that killed at least six infants and sickened 300,000 others in 2008.
A boss in Shenzhen tells the Southern Metropolis Daily that wealthy adults are hiring nurses from his supply company for daily supplies of human breast milk either directly through breastfeeding or by drinking from a breast pump.
Legal experts tell the newspaper that adult breastfeeding rather than drinking from a pump may be deemed "prostitution".
Shenzhen police, however, say it will be hard to gather evidence to prove whether such acts constitute a sexual service.
Red Net commentator Kou Yulong says the rich should take medicine if they are ill and not grab milk meant for babies.
"Bill Gates and Warren Buffett are busy making donations, while the wealthy in China are busy picking beautiful women and drinking human milk. Such a contrast cannot be highlighted better. How humanity can stoop to such unbearable levels when social constraints are lost. Such a development will take us into the abyss," laments Cai Hui in the Beijing Morning Post.
In the Youth Times, commentator Ke Rui, however, says human breast milk is on sale in Japan and other countries.
Ke Rui says the public should not be "led by the nose" by moral debates over whether the breast milk service is elitist or sexual or should avoid being "deceived by the exaggerated gimmicks" of companies.
BBC Monitoring reports and analyses news from TV, radio, web and print media around the world. For more reports from BBC Monitoring, click here. You can follow BBC Monitoring on Twitter and Facebook.
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites
Ministers say they will not target other benefits to pay for abandoning cuts to disability payments as they seek to heal a rift over Iain Duncan Smith's resignation.
The horrifying claims of child abuse at the heart of the British establishment
What's so great about best place to live in Britain?
The Indian actress who hit back after being Photoshopped into porn
How much of the capital is owned by wealthy offshore investors?
Have the EU campaigns learnt lessons from Scotland's independence vote?