2013-07~12
http://www.worldbulletin.net/?aType=haber&ArticleID=120189

Chinese police kill seven Uyghurs in Kashgar | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
Seven ethnic minority Uyghurs have been shot dead by police in separate clashes in China's restive northwestern region of East Turkistan (Xinjiang) and nine others detained for protesting against some of the killings, an exile Uyghur group said on Monday.
The shootings underscore a trend of increasing violence in East Turkistan, where the Muslim Uyghurs complain of discrimination and religious controls under Beijing’s rule, reported the Radio Free Asia. 
Four died after police in Yarkand (in Chinese, Shache) county, which is administered by the Silk Road city of Kashgar, opened fire on a group of Uyghurs in a private residence last Thursday after suspecting them of "illegal assembly," the Munich-based World Uyghur Congress said.
"At around 6.00 p.m. on the evening of Oct. 3, armed personnel surrounded a residence in Abu Dona Village No. 16 and accused [the occupants] of illegal assembly," the group's Sweden-based spokesman Dilxat Raxit said in an interview on Monday.
The incident came after police opened fire on Uyghurs at a railway station and in a village in the same county during the previous week, Raxit said.
He said police had previously shot dead two residents of Abu Dona Village No. 29 on Sept. 26.
"And on Sept. 28, the police fired on suspects at Yarkand railway station, killing one Uyghur.
He said nine Uyghurs were also detained after they marched to the Yarkand county government offices on the Oct. 1 National Day holiday to protest the earlier killings.
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
