2013-07~12
http://www.iol.co.za/news/world/xinjiang-attackers-sentenced-to-death-1.1577146

Xinjiang attackers sentenced to death | IOL
A court in China's far western region of Xinjiang sentenced three men to death, and handed a 25-year prison term to a fourth, after convicting them of killing 24 people in a terrorist attack, state media said on Friday.
The leader of the group, Ahmatniyaz Sidiq, was sentenced to death on Thursday for “organising, leading and participating in a terrorist organisation,” as well as murder and arson, the official Xinhua news agency said.
Sidiq led a group of 13 men in the attack on a police station, government offices and a market on June 26 in Xinjiang's Lukqun township, the agency quoted prosecutors as saying.
The group had “advocated and spread religious extremism, (and) watched violence-inciting videos from foreign terrorist organisations,” it said.
The report did not say what happened to the other nine members of the group, but an earlier Xinhua report said police shot dead 11 of the attackers.
State broadcaster China Central television said the group had 17 members. - Sapa-dpa
Five people have been killed by wild elephants that went on the rampage, triggering panic in a village in eastern India, a local official said.
Donald Trump often tells crowds that he doesn't need outside financial support to get to the White House, but some of his ...
North Korea fired five short-range projectiles into the sea off its east coast , South Korea's military said.
President Barack Obama turns from sightseeing to state business on his historic Cuba trip.
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump said that “professional agitators” bore much of the blame for violence at his rallies.
Salah Abdeslam's lawyer said he would sue a French prosecutor for divulging his client's admission that he had planned to blow himself up.
At least 13 people were killed when a bus carrying a large group of foreign university students crashed midway between Valencia and Barcelona.
Mehmet Ozturk, a Turkish member of the Islamic State, was responsible for the suicide bombing in Istanbul.