2013-07~12
http://www.theledger.com/article/20131231/mct/131239870

U.S. Releases Final 3 Uighur Detainees at Guantanamo | TheLedger.com
WASHINGTON | Three Chinese Muslims, the last of nearly two dozen ethnic Uighurs held for years at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, have been flown to freedom as the Obama administration pushes to empty the prison in Cuba under new rules that relaxed restrictions on detainee transfers.
The Pentagon announced the releases Tuesday, just days after President Barack Obama signed the National Defense Authorization Act, which eased restrictions on moving some detainees from the prison for terrorism suspects to other countries. The three Uighurs were secretly flown Monday to Slovakia.
Yusef Abbas, Saidullah Khalik and Hajiakbar Abdul Ghuper were swept up with other Uighurs as U.S. forces rolled through Central Asia after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The men had been cleared for release in 2008, when a U.S. federal judge ruled they were being unlawfully detained.
Yet they remained locked up in a section of the Guantanamo prison called Camp Iguana, known by guards as "Uighurville," as U.S. officials tried to find other countries willing to accept them because they worried the men would face torture and religious persecution if returned to China.
"This transfer and resettlement constitutes a significant milestone in our effort to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay," said Navy Rear Adm. John F. Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary. At present, 155 detainees remain at Guantanamo Bay, he said.
Civil rights attorneys and advocates hailed Monday's release as a sign Obama is moving to shutter the prison, a pledge he made during his presidential run in 2008.
The Center for Constitutional Rights, whose attorneys have worked on behalf of detainees, said the Uighurs' release marked "a profound humanitarian gesture toward three men the U.S. government long recognized were innocent of any wrongdoing and never should have been brought to Guantanamo."
In a statement, the center added that their capture and imprisonment were "especially heartbreaking" because the Uighurs — 22 in all who had fled persecution in their homeland — initially thought they had been rescued by the U.S., a superpower capable of standing up to China. Instead, "sadly they came to symbolize the tragedy of Guantanamo."
The Pentagon is in the process of launching review boards to assess whether remaining detainees pose security threats to the U.S. and other countries, and whether they should be approved for transfers out of the heavily secured island fortress.
Reader comments posted to this article may be published in our print edition. All rights reserved. This copyrighted material may not be re-published without permission. Links are encouraged.
Hi there, and welcome to our new Viafoura commenting system! You'll likely notice some additional functionality and changes (never fear - in this case, change is a good thing).
As a reader, you can now sign in using a variety of social media accounts instead of being limited to logging in via Facebook. And it's easier than ever to engage with fellow commenters - like or dislike comments, follow other users, receive instant notifications on commenting activity, earn badges, or take a moment to flag anything that's offensive or abusive.
Yes, there'll inevitably be some hiccups and growing pains as we make this exciting transition. But stick with us, as we're confident this new commenting platform will help spark more discussion and engagement within our online community. Thanks for your patience, and happy commenting!