2013-07~12
http://finance.townhall.com/columnists/nightwatch/2013/07/03/egypts-military-taking-sides-n1632866

Egypt's Military Targets Islamist Gov. with Demands - Night Watch - Townhall Finance Conservative Columnists and Financial Commentary - Page 1
Japan-China: Four Chinese maritime surveillance vessels entered Japanese territorial waters Monday near the Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea, the Japan Coast Guard said.
Responding to the coast guard's warning to leave the waters, the four Chinese vessels said in Chinese and English they were involved in normal patrol activities, according to the 11th Regional Coast Guard Headquarters in Naha, Okinawa.
Comment: The coast guard statement said the intrusion of Chinese ships was the first since 27 June and 50th since the Japanese government purchased part of the uninhabited island group last September.
This intrusion occurred the day after Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi at a meeting in Brunei urged cooperation as the main solution to peaceful resolution of maritime disputes with the members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), Japan and South Korea. The Chinese foreign ministry announced a working group meeting on dispute management would be held in September.
As noted regularly by NightWatch during the past several years, the aggressive behavior of the Chinese maritime surveillance authorities does not match the conciliatory words of the foreign ministry.
North Korea-Russia: First Vice Foreign Minister Kim Kye Gwan will depart for Russia on 4 July for discussions on ways to restart the Six Party Talks.
Comment: Kim is the senior North Korean official who visited China on 18 June when Chinese officials instructed him and North Korea about the need to restart the Talks. The Russia visit seems meant to convey that the North takes Chinese guidance seriously and is moving ahead. Actually, consulting Russia is a maneuver to slow-roll resumption of talks because Russia has little influence in North Korea, compared to China and South Korea. What Russia can and will offer Kim is advice on handling China and the US.
As a follow-up, in an official statement today, North Korea sharply criticized South Korean President Park's conduct and public remarks in China. The article was directed to the internal North Korean audience. The message contained an explicit statement affirming the North's commitment to "simultaneously pushing forward economic construction and the building of nuclear armed forces."
China: On Monday, Chinese news services blamed the US and the West for encouraging violent ethnic unrest in western China. Two attacks in Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region killed 35 people and injured 21, including some policemen.
Get the best of Townhall Finance Daily delivered straight to your inbox

 TownhallFinance.com makes available to the viewer a variety of independent sources that offer trading and investment advice and related services and products.
 Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service
 is provided to you
