2013-07~12
http://www.caspionet.kz/en/view/news_kazakhstan/page_37896_

Kazakh TV - Kazakhstan

 Lower House of Kazakh Parliament will be supplemented by nine deputies from People’s Assembly of Kazakhstan.

 Chairman of the "Auyl" party Ali Bektayev congratulated the President of Kazakhstan with a confident victory of "Nur Otan".

 Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated Kazakhstan citizens on the bright holiday of Nauryz.

 The newly elected three parties will form the Kazakh Mazhilis of new convocation.

 The elections of deputies of the Majilis, selected by the People's Assembly of Kazakhstan, will be held today.

 It is expected that about 400 of our compatriots will come to vote here.

 Not only domestic journalists, but also colleagues from the international media cover elections in Kazakhstan.

 Campaigning of 2016 Parliamentary elections was cited by great activity, high level of competition and transparency.

 President Nursultan Nazarbayev signed a decree to dissolve the Mazhilis deputies by their own request in January 2016.

 The telegram notes that the Kazakh Head of state took the news of the tragic deaths with great sorrow.

 The Institute for promotion of business ideas is working in cooperation with one of the leading American Universities.

 It will be much warmer in the south and south-east. The air will warm up to 20 degrees Celsius during the day.

 It should be noted that the mayors office of the capital decided to establish 26 new polling stations.

 Changes will affect not only the finances but also education.

 The Academy of civil aviation of Kazakhstan will train world-class pilots.

 New simplified rules of ‘Bolashak’ scholarship come into force starting from 2016.

 Nursultan Nazarbayev received the prestigious sports award - the honorary Order of the "United World Wrestling" Federation.

 Housewarming parties are being celebrated in two residential complexes; apartments are completely ready to move in to.

 The contest for the best souvenirs for the "Expo-2017" exhibition was launched in Astana.

 50 agricultural cooperatives were formed from the beginning of the year.
Share of women in SME sector in Kazakhstan totals more than 40%
Volume of corporate deposits in STBS of Kazakhstan total 9 trillion Tenge