2013-07~12
http://tribune.com.pk/story/636741/chinese-anti-veil-beauty-campaign-sows-ugly-tensions/

Chinese anti-veil 'beauty' campaign sows ugly tensions - The Express Tribune

Residents say to enter government offices, banks or courts, women had to remove veils and men shave their beards. PHOTO: REUTERS/ FILE
KASHGAR: A Chinese government worker in the ancient Silk Road oasis of Kashgar beckons two women to her streetside stand and logs their details under the gaze of a surveillance camera. Their offence: wearing veils.
The “Project Beauty” campaign aims to discourage women from covering their faces in an attempt to improve security.
But critics warn the effort could sow resentment and backfire instead.
“We need to hold onto our traditions and they should understand that,” said a 25-year-old woman who has been registered twice.
Offenders were made to watch a film about the joys of exposing their faces, she added, speaking behind a white crocheted covering.
“The movie doesn’t change a lot of people’s minds,” she said, like others declining to be named.
Xinjiang, a vast area bordering Pakistan and Central Asia in China’s far west, beyond the furthest reaches of the Great Wall, has followed Islam for centuries.
It came under Chinese control most recently during the Qing dynasty in the late 1800s.
For years it has seen sporadic unrest by Uighurs which rights groups say is driven by cultural oppression and intrusive security measures but China attributes to extremist religion, terrorism and separatism.
Authorities’ concerns intensified after a deadly attack in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square last month which police blamed on Uighurs.
Kashgar residents say veil restrictions sparked at least one deadly conflict this year near the city, where 90 percent of the area’s 3.3 million residents are Uighur.
“For the Chinese government the casual process is: extremists ask for independence, ask for separatism, then that’s why they set very strict limits on Uighurs’ religious activities,” said Shan Wei, a political scientist at the National University of Singapore.
“For the Uighurs’ part, it’s: ‘OK, I wasn’t involved in any political movements, I’m not a separatist at all, but you set so many stupid restrictions on my daily religious activities that I hate you’,” he added, pointing out that China’s other Muslim minorities did not face such rules.
Women in Kashgar sport a range of coverings, from bright scarves draped stylishly over hairdos that leave their necks exposed, to sombre Saudi-style black fabric cloaking all but their eyes.
Policies to stop them covering their faces, and to a lesser extent their hair, are not publicised. City authorities declined to comment and Xinjiang officials could not be reached.
But “Project Beauty” stands could be seen around the city, and a tailor said campaign staff had instructed him not to make the full-length robes often worn with face coverings.
Other residents said that to enter government offices, banks or courts, women had to remove their veils and men shave their beards.
In Hotan, another predominantly Uighur city 500 kilometres to the east, at least one hospital received government forms to report back on veiled patients.
A Xinjiang government web portal featuring Project Beauty did not mention banning veils but listed its goals as promoting local beauty products and other goods, and encouraging women to be “practitioners of modern culture”.
The Xinjiang Daily, run by the ruling Communist Party, warned of the potential dangers of Islamic dress in a July opinion piece.
“Some people with ulterior motives are distorting religious teachings” and “inciting young people to do jihad”, it said, adding that black robes induced depression and scared babies.
The ruling party has sought periodically to stamp out veiling since taking power in 1949, first launching an atheism drive and banning the headgear altogether in the 1960s and 70s, said Gardner Bovingdon, a Xinjiang expert at Indiana University Bloomington.
Restrictions relaxed in the 1980s as China opened up, but tightened again in the following decade after religiously tinged protests broke out.
A worker at a Project Beauty checkpoint cited “security” as a motive for the campaign.
Some Uighurs endorsed the authorities’ precautions, saying thieves or suicide bombers might exploit the outfits to hide packages and their identity.
A Uighur metalworker complained that women taught from youth to wear veils found it hard to change, and that other Chinese Muslim men grew beards but only Uighurs were labelled terrorists.
A 35-year-old bakery owner with a gauzy orange scarf wrapped around a bun said the need to remove her veil in government buildings did not overly bother her. Women were becoming less strict about wearing veils in any case, she said.
But others remove their face covers before approaching Project Beauty checkpoints to avoid trouble, said a 19-year-old woman from a jade-selling family.
Minister likened traditional female Islamic dress to being 'in a kind of bag.'
The ban, whose roots date back almost 90 years, has kept many women from joining the public work force.
A large number of women participated in the walk from Bait-ul-Mukarram mosque to Hassan Square to mark the occasion.
We need something like this in Pakistan also. Full face coverings are a security threat. Other coverings are fine. Recommend
@zamunda how nice of you . always remembering your Indian brother
By the way all weather friends are irritating your religious sensitivities.Recommend
@ Moiz Omar
“We need something like this in Pakistan also. Full face coverings are a security threat. Other coverings are fine.”
Very well said. To further expand the discussion I wud suggest full nudity. I mean any thing can be hidden inside clothes. Recommend
It is against Islam for a Pakistani to condemn China.
While its true that Islam does not ask for a full face veil but liberals should allow how a woman wants to dress? oops..china no liberal
It is time to read the rule book to our Chinese friends.
1st rule in the rule book:
“Tallel than the mountains, deepel than the oceans, strongel than steel, sweetel than honey.”
One can understand ‘Decadent West’ being ‘Islamophobic’, but ‘Sweeter than Honey’ sweetheart going the same way hurts.
Banning the veil for security purposes might make some sense — banning the veil for “beauty” is just downright stupid – but classic China.
@Moiz Omar
” Why not start with your family Member.. Post some pic on facebook for society encouragement
This woman is Ameera Al Tawleen…She is a Saudi Arabian princess….Now tell me how many woman in Saudi Arabia can be without veil and wear short skirts like her???
Recently a Saudi cleric said that even newborn babies should wear veils to protect men from getting tempted,how come he never raised a fatwa against the Royal princess???
Last year China banned Ramzan fasting in its territory and this year (in response to JI’s World Hijab Day) China is promoting unveiling campaign. Pakistan and China should include this as part of their cultural exchange programs. JI girls may hold placard that says: “Hijab covers my head, not my brain” but China knows the truth. China knows how to rub it effectively, silently and insultingly.
Where are those bloggers who have written so many pieces in ET promoting veil and demanding burka rights in Western countries?
@Commenter: body cavity search, pakis have to undergo that whenever they travel internationally so it should not be a problem
@Zamunda:
Full veils should be banned…Because first of all,we dont know who is behind the veil…
What if ur female member of ur family is puzzled why a certain burkha clad person is roaming inside the ladies room for half an hr peeking at every washroom???
I support china very well their president and prime minster should start showing their beauty in UN first
Y U NO ALLOW FACE VEIL, CHINA? But I guess this won’t be a problem for Islamic hardliners in Pakistan as long as China has a border dispute with India.
This more of an ethnic issue than religious. As the article says, Muslim of other ethnicities are not subject to same treatment. Han Chinese primarily live in eastern parts of the country where most of the development is being done. Muslims belonging to Han race enjoy more freedom than their Turkic brethren in the west (Xinjiang / East Turkestan). Plight of Buddhist Tibetans,and Muslims Uyghurs in Xinjiang/East Turkestan is not very different from each other. China tries to subdue their culture (religion being part of their respective cultures).
Forgot to mention in my earlier comment on a recent news item in ET under the heading: China paper blames blind faith of “uncultured” youth for Xinjiang unrest.
Two or three years ago, Pakistan made Chinese language compulsory studies in its schools, thinking that it would please china.
project “Beauty” to eject the “hijaab”. Also, Muslim beard banned !!!! Now imagine what China would to muslims living in China, if a 9/11 or 26/11 style attack was perpetrated by Muslims on the chinese.
I shiver to think.
But , muslim countries, like Pakistan , love China. That means ‘stick’ works.
Is this the way to treat minorities? China should know they cannot displease Muslims. Muslims will defend their religion against all odds.
“Two or three years ago, Pakistan made Chinese language compulsory studies in its schools, thinking that it would please china.”
You definitely do a lot of research before posting comments. Now we see all school going kids in Pakistan are fluent in “Chinese”. (except my 5 nieces and nephews who go to school in Pakistan). They must be below average since none of them speak “Chinese”. Since there is no language called Chinese, (same as their is no language called Indian or a language called Pakistani). Was it Mandarin, Cantonese, Hakanese, Shanghainese or some other dialect that was made compulsory. I bet you would know that as well.
Other residents said that to enter government offices, banks or courts, women had to remove their veils and men shave their beards.
That is interesting. Now beards are to be considered a security risk?what is next-shaving the eyebrows and heads
It is interesting that you knew Pakistanis would not express their solidarity with ummah in this case though they would be all over it if this was France.
India should do the same. Muslims who don’t want others see their faces should stay home. Don’t come out and we will not be complaining.
We need to ask the Chinese to train a Pakistan chapter of the Communist Party and have them run our country.
Also, normal people tend to identify fellow human beings by their face. Do you follow a different method?!
@Common man:
None of my female family members wear any veil. And most of them have profile pictures on Facebook.
How about people who do not want others to see their heads and wear a large turban (Indian PM) . Should they be told to stay home as well??? how about other body parts. Do you think state should be in the business of dictating wardrobe ???.
What would be the difference between “SECULAR” India vs Saudi or Taliban governments. Forcing something on or forcing something off is no state business.
The question is why should non-muslims treat muslims in a ‘secular’ way , when muslim countries abhor secularism and do not treat non-muslims as equals ?
Why not treat muslims the same way muslim countries treat non-muslims ?
Take Saudi Arabia as an example as its the mother country of all muslims.
@UK:
flow against the current and chances are that you ll sink sooner.
I see most of the Indians support this gesture. No surprise over there.
No doubt it will be unpopular in every Muslim nation which has dealings with China. This is a disgusting suppression of religious rights for Muslims. God will judge them for it.
China should follow pakistan for how to treat its minorities, take a lesson from your all weather friend and apply on your minorities period…

This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, redistributed or derived from.
Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2016 The Express Tribune.
Technical feedback? [email protected]
