2013-07~12
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/10429411/Chinas-Communist-Party-HQ-hit-by-series-of-explosions.html

China's Communist Party HQ hit by series of explosions - Telegraph
A series of apparently coordinated explosions have gone off outside a Communist Party headquarters in a wealthy industrial hub in northern China.
Media reports claimed that improvised explosive devices packed with metal ball bearings and nails and concealed in roadside flowerbeds were detonated at around 7.40am in Taiyuan, the capital of coal-rich Shanxi province. Initial reports from the local government said there had been one fatality and eight injuries, one serious.
The explosions took place outside the headquarters of the Shanxi Provincial Committee of the Communist Party on Yingze Street, one of the city's main boulevards, state news agency Xinhua reported. The street is also home to Taiyuan's railway station and a number of its best hotels.
The CCTV television network said at least 20 vehicles had been damaged.
There were conflicting reports over the exact number of explosions. The Beijing Youth Daily newspaper reported at least seven explosions, according Hong Kong's South China Morning Post. But another account, later deleted by censors from the Weibo micro-blog, claimed there had been four blasts.
"Over 100 armed police have gathered here in a short time," the censored Weibo post read. "The cars parked in front of the government building were destroyed beyond recognition."
A third account said the explosions had started at around 7.40am and continued until around 8.10am.
Photographs posted on social media showed a plume of black smoke rising into the sky near the government building and red fire trucks rushing to the scene
One image showed a man's body splayed out on the floor, his head obscured by a black car.
Liu Guoliang, a witness, told Xinhua he heard "a big bang" and saw "heavy smoke and flames".
The incident comes just over a week after five people were killed in Beijing's Tiananmen Square when a car rammed into crowds outside the Forbidden City and exploded.
Chinese authorities have described the October 28 incident as an "organised and premeditated" terror attack carried out by religious extremists from the north-western province of Xinjiang.
There was no immediate suggestion that Wednesday morning's explosions were linked to the Tiananmen Square incident.
Small scale attacks on government installations and infrastructure are not unheard of in China. In October a disabled man was jailed for six years for detonating a homemade bomb at Beijing's international airport in June.
Ji Zhongxing, a 34-year-old petitioner, lost his arm in the explosion but there were no other serious injuries.

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
