2013-07~12
http://www.theatlantic.com/china/archive/2013/12/the-most-notable-china-br-stories-of-2013/282092/

The Most Notable China Stories of 2013 - The Atlantic
Try two trial issues of The Atlantic with our compliments.
The year in review, from the editor of The Atlantic's China Channel
There's an old Chinese curse that goes like this: "May you live in interesting times." And 2013—the year of the snake on the Chinese zodiac calendar—certainly qualified. Here's a look at the year's top China stories:
In March, Xi Jinping officially became the president of the People's Republic of China, completing a process that began the previous fall when he assumed chairmanship of the Communist Party and control of China's Central Military Commission. The son of a Xi Zhongxun, a high-ranking official during the Mao era, Xi (along with his glamorous wife) represented a break from the dour, workmanlike administration of his predecessor, Hu Jintao. 
Upon taking power Xi adopted "China Dream" as the country's slogan, reaffirming the sense that national greatness, more than anything else, is China's central ideology. Politically, Xi's went to work tackling corruption, perhaps the issue that poses the greatest existential threat to the Communist's grip on power. Over the three decades of economic growth, China's leadership—both on the local and national level—enriched themselves through nebulous patronage networks, and adopted some of the trappings of privilege: flashy cars and foreign education. Xi issued a directive prohibiting officials from indulgences like banquet lunches and private cars, encouraging Party members to stick to "four dishes and a soup" and consider carpools. However, Xi has yet to show any ability to tackle the root causes of corruption: the entwining of business and politics.
Xi proved more successful in consolidating his power, though. At the Third Plenary sessions in November, the Party announced the formation of two new governing task forces (on national security and economics) that will help streamline decision-making at the highest level of Chinese politics. These moves signaled that Xi is already more powerful than his predecessor had ever become—and is likely to grow more powerful still.
The Third Plenum wasn't just about politics—the meeting introduced important policy changes, too. Beijing announced reforms to the hukou, a household registration system that functions as an internal passport and prevents migrant workers from obtaining benefits like education and health care in Chinese cities. Now, workers with a rural hukou will be relaxed in second and third-tier cities, a reform that will better empower China's millions of newly urbanized citizens.
The plenary session also brought forth reforms to the economy, requiring state-owned companies—which still dominate China's economy—to contribute a higher percentage of their profits to fund social welfare programs. State-owned firms must also now allow private investors to gain up to a 15 percent equity stake.
But most notably, the Third Plenum announced the loosening of China's one-child policy, which, since its imposition in 1979, had transformed the country's demographics and society—mostly for the worse. Now, families in which one or both parents are only children can apply for permission to have a second child. While the reform comes too late to reverse China's shrinking labor force—Chinese people are having fewer children nowadays, anyway—it does relax a system whose social consequences, including forced sterilization and abortion, represent one of China's worst human rights violations.
China's GDP grew by just under eight percent in the first three quarters of 2013, and, triggering the usual handwringing about the economy: Is the Chinese miracle coming to an end? 
Without question, China's economy has serious problems—the "shadow banking" sector, municipal debt, and a housing bubble all, if left unresolved, have the potential to cause a sharp downturn. In addition, Beijing has been slow to move the economy away from a growth model that, because of a reliance on exports and investment, is fundamentally unsustainable.
But GDP—a notoriously unreliable statistic in China—is the least of the government's worries. Worsening income inequality has blossomed into a major social problem, and real class divisions—once unthinkable in Communist China—have re-emerged. 
In a recent appearance on the China-focused Sinica Podcast, The Atlantic's James Fallows remarked that the iconic image of contemporary China, rather than a factory, was now the polluted skies plaguing Beijing and other major cities. But while air pollution remains a persistent problem—a crisis in Beijing in January was particularly bad—it is hardly China's only environmental crisis. In March, thousands of pigs turned up dead in Shanghai's Huangpu River, raising questions about the safety of the country's water supply. Food security, too, is an issue: stories of rat meat masquerading as lamb appeared in the Chinese media this year, and a scandal involving recycled cooking oil caused widespread fear—and revulsion—when revealed in October.
The Chinese government made progress in tightening environmental regulations during the year, and the country has invested greatly in alternative sources of energy. Nevertheless, as the year winds to a close (with horrific skies now enveloping Shanghai), no other issue has the potential to unite China's divided population more than the environmental crisis. 
Sino-American relations got off to a rocky start in February 2013 with the revelation that China's People Liberation Army Unit 61398 systematically hacked into American government and corporate interests from a non-descript apartment complex outside Shanghai. Though this discovery, uncovered by the security firm Mandiant, didn't really surprise anyone, it nonetheless revealed the depth and sophistication of China's cyber capabilities.
In order to repair the rocky relationship, Presidents Xi and Obama convened at the Sunnylands estate in Rancho Mirage, California, in April for a "shirtsleeves summit": an opportunity for the men to converse without the stifling formality of a state visit. The conversation seemed to go well—Obama for his part called it "terrific"—but any comity between the two countries evaporated in June when Edward Snowden surfaced in Hong Kong with a trove of U.S. government secrets, including information on American spying on China. 
Snowden didn't linger in Hong Kong, ultimately—to Beijing's relief—moving to an uncertain future in Russia. But his brief sojourn in a Chinese territory undid any of the warm feelings lingering from the California summit, and undermined Washington's moral ground in the question of governing spying. 
The trial of Bo Xilai, the former Chongqing Party Secretary whose 2012 downfall became China's most serious political scandal in decades, finally took place in August and, as expected, resulted in a guilty verdict.
But even still, the trial of the high-profile leader was still extraordinary by Chinese standards. State-media coverage of the event was more transparent than with any other trial in decades, and Bo, in contrast to the usual contrition of Chinese defendants, was defiant to the end.
Was Bo's trial an advancement for the rule of law in China? Or just the same old abrogation of justice? Either way, it brought to an end one of the most remarkable careers in Chinese politics.
In 2013, China's forceful pursuit of territorial claims in the East China Sea encountered stiffer resistance from its neighbors. In January, The Philippines made a formal appeal to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) to declare China's claims in what Manila calls the "West Philippine Sea" illegal.
But the more serious dispute occurred with China's most important rival: Japan. In late November, tension between the two countries over the energy-rich Senkaku/Diaoyu islands escalated when China announced an air defense identification zone (ADIZ) requiring aircraft flying near the islands to notify China first. The announcement drew immediate opposition from Tokyo, Seoul, and Washington, and raised the possibility that an accident might provoke a dangerous overreaction. In Asia this week, Vice President Biden announced that American planes will not obey China's ADIZ, mirroring the Japanese position, and barring an unexpected compromise on the part of Beijing, the issue will remain unresolved going into 2014.
China's positions in East Asia are a vital issue to Communist Party leadership, but still pale in importance to the country's top priority: avoiding domestic instability. Though the government avoided widespread labor unrest—aside from environmental protests in Kunming over a local issue—unrest in the Tibet and Xinjiang regions continued.  Several more Tibetans set themselves on fire in 2013, bringing the overall total of  politically-motivated self-immolations to over 100 since 2009.
In addition, the country's issues with the Uighur minority, natives of China's far-western Xinjiang Autonomous Region, erupted in late June with an attack on a government building in the town of Lukqun. Blamed on Uighur separatists, the violence claimed 35 lives.
Then in October, Beijing's Xinjiang problem struck closer to home, when a jeep crashed in the capital's Tiananmen Square, killing five. The incident unnerved China's leadership—whose compound lies just a few hundred yards away—and served as a chilling reminder that Beijing's ethnic policies in its westernmost region are not working.
Foreign journalists in China came under more pressure than ever in 2013, the first year under Xi Jinping's administration. After the New York Times and Bloomberg published investigations into the wealth of top Communist leaders last year, the Communist Party blocked both agency's websites and refused to issue newly hired journalists visas to report in China. 
This year, following the completion of a subsequent report into the political connections of Wang Jianlin, China's wealthiest man, Bloomberg News editor-in-chief Matthew Winkler reportedly spiked the story in order to preserve the company's access to China (or, perhaps, the availability of Bloomberg's lucrative financial terminals). Though Winkler denied the report, the incident illustrated a disturbing trend in Beijing's relationship with the media: As China grows more powerful, its tolerance for criticism diminishes. Vice President Joseph Biden spoke sharply against the Chinese media controls this week, remarking that "innovation thrives when people speak freely." Beijing, though, feels it doesn't need to be lectured anymore. And while China's state-run media expands its empire in the United States, reporters for the New York Times and Bloomberg now face possible expulsion from the country for simply doing their jobs.
Yet in spite of this clampdown on official media, hundreds of millions of people continue to tweet news, gossip, and images on platforms like Sina Weibo and WeChat, providing China-watchers with far more information about what Chinese people think and feel than would have been possible even five years ago. And, while Xi Jinping's  public campaign against the platform's "Big V"—or most popular—users managed to quiet dissent, the decentralized, instant nature of online communication in China cannot be suppressed. That, looking ahead to 2014, is a trend worth keeping watch of.

 From a moral standpoint, it makes the world worse.


 A photographer slows down his process to capture a population in flux.

The U.S. president talks through his hardest decisions about America’s role in the world.
Friday, August 30, 2013, the day the feckless Barack Obama brought to a premature end America’s reign as the world’s sole indispensable superpower—or, alternatively, the day the sagacious Barack Obama peered into the Middle Eastern abyss and stepped back from the consuming void—began with a thundering speech given on Obama’s behalf by his secretary of state, John Kerry, in Washington, D.C. The subject of Kerry’s uncharacteristically Churchillian remarks, delivered in the Treaty Room at the State Department, was the gassing of civilians by the president of Syria, Bashar al-Assad.
When U.S. politicians talk about Scandinavian-style social welfare, they fail to explain the most important aspect of such policies: selfishness.
Bernie Sanders is hanging on, still pushing his vision of a Nordic-like socialist utopia for America, and his supporters love him for it. Hillary Clinton, meanwhile, is chalking up victories by sounding more sensible. “We are not Denmark,” she said in the first Democratic debate, pointing instead to America’s strengths as a land of freedom for entrepreneurs and businesses. Commentators repeat endlessly the mantra that Sanders’s Nordic-style policies might sound nice, but they’d never work in the U.S. The upshot is that Sanders, and his supporters, are being treated a bit like children—good-hearted, but hopelessly naive. That’s probably how Nordic people seem to many Americans, too.
A Nordic person myself, I left my native Finland seven years ago and moved to the U.S. Although I’m now a U.S. citizen, I hear these kinds of comments from Americans all the time—at cocktail parties and at panel discussions, in town hall meetings and on the opinion pages. Nordic countries are the way they are, I’m told, because they are small, homogeneous “nanny states” where everyone looks alike, thinks alike, and belongs to a big extended family. This, in turn, makes Nordic citizens willing to sacrifice their own interests to help their neighbors. Americans don’t feel a similar kinship with other Americans, I’m told, and thus will never sacrifice their own interests for the common good. What this is mostly taken to mean is that Americans will never, ever agree to pay higher taxes to provide universal social services, as the Nordics do. Thus Bernie Sanders, and anyone else in the U.S. who brings up Nordic countries as an example for America, is living in la-la land.
What information, if anything, does a trans woman owe a straight man? A Horace and Pete scene about that subject was dubbed “problematic” due solely to the identity of its writer.
During the first six episodes of Horace and Pete, the comedian Louis C.K., the drama’s creator, writer, and director, presents an array of characters who all see the world differently. They inhabit an old Brooklyn bar, a place out of time, where plot lines unfold through dialogue. Uncle Pete, an elderly misanthrope, romanticizes tradition—the bar has been run by his family for seven generations. His middle-aged niece is repelled by the same history, knowing that many of her forefathers beat their wives. Yet her contemporary, Cousin Pete, suffers from a mental illness that renders the outside world a terrifying place. For him, the bar is the safest place of all.
Meanwhile, bar patrons include a white woman who explains what it’s like to live with Tourette syndrome, a black man who laughingly relays his attitude toward a bar-mate’s racism, bickering men from all sides of the ideological spectrum, a gay hipster looking for a drink, a once-glamorous alcoholic staving off loneliness, and many people and themes besides that no single writer could render from personal experience.
In the Democrats Abroad primary, the Vermont senator beat his rival by a wide margin and picked up nine delegates.
Bernie Sanders keeps arguing that the United States should look abroad for policies that would make the nation more equitable—and it seems that Americans who live there agree with him.
Results from the Democrats Abroad primary show the Vermont senator cruising to a big win over Hillary Clinton among ex-pats, taking 69 percent of the vote to her 31. That’s good to net Sanders nine delegates and Clinton four. Nearly 35,000 Americans overseas cast ballots, a 50 percent increase over the 2008 total.
Clinton has pushed back against Sanders’s praise for Scandinavian countries. “We are not Denmark,” she said in October, hastening to add: “I love Denmark.” It turns out that affection wasn’t reciprocated by the  American Democrats there. Sanders whomped her in Denmark, 358-89. In Sweden, Sanders won 513-202. In Norway, he won 328-102.
It’s not any harder to imagine a Federal Reserve Chair Kim Kardashian now than it was two decades ago to imagine a President Donald Trump.
Two high-profile examples of disorienting job changes, both involving Google, recently graced the news. First, Defense Secretary Ash Carter announced that Eric Schmidt, Google’s former CEO, will head the new Defense Innovation Advisory Board at the Pentagon. And second, Chris Poole, the founder of 4chan, the anonymous messageboard known for Internet diversions such as lolcats and Rickrolling—as well as its more revolting features, such as abuse, hate, and doxxing—announced that he had joined the search giant in an unspecified capacity.
These two career shifts issue a cognitive dissonance. On the one hand, they appear to represent reversals for both figures. Schmidt, a vocal detractor of government interference and a de facto promoter of tax avoidance as Google’s CEO, assisting the government (and the Pentagon, no less). And Poole, the accidental leader of the most rogue, unpredictable, and sometimes despicable of Internet communities, joining the most mainstream and supposedly respectable of Internet blue-chips.
On Monday, Apple did something it has never done before.
On Monday afternoon, from its headquarters in California, Apple did something it has never done before: It announced a new iPhone with a smaller screen than the last model.
The phone, which it dubbed the iPhone SE, has the same innards as the iPhone 6S, the jumbo device that the company released last year. Its processors are just as fast, and it comes in 16 and 64-gigabyte versions. Its camera even has the same number of megapixels (12) as the 6S.
But in place of the 6S’s 4.7-inch screen is a four-inch screen, just as the iPhone 5 had. (iPhone screens are measured by their diagonal.)
The new phones end what was essentially a long game of chicken played between Apple and its customers. Since September 2014, when the company first released iPhones with big screens, some users have pleaded for smaller devices. (I wrote a story that month asking if the new phones were too large for many women’s hands.)
The upcoming biopic about the singer proves that the world still isn’t ready to tell her story.
When I was a kid, I knew what the worst parts of me were—my hair and my mouth. My hair was nappy. My lips were big. Nearly every kid around me knew something similar of themselves because nearly every one of us had some sort of physical defect—dark skin, nappy hair, broad nose, full lips—that opened us up to ridicule from one another. That each of these “defects” were representative of all the Africa that ran through us was never lost on anyone.“Africa” was an insult—African bush-boogie, African bootie-scratcher etc. Ethiopian famine jokes were all the rage back then.
Did we want to be white? I don’t think so. We didn’t want to look like Rob Lowe or Madonna. We hated and mocked Michael Jackson’s aesthetic changes as viciously as we mocked each other. What we wanted was to be on the right end of the paper bag tests. We wanted hazel eyes. We wanted wavy hair. I had neither hazel eyes nor wavy hair. But I also didn’t suffer in the same way that I saw other kids around me suffer. I was not dark-skinned. And, more importantly, I was not a girl.
Why the obsession with our kids’ happiness may be dooming them to unhappy adulthoods. A therapist and mother reports.
If there’s one thing I learned in graduate school, it’s that the poet Philip Larkin was right. (“They fuck you up, your mum and dad, / They may not mean to, but they do.”) At the time, I was a new mom with an infant son, and I’d decided to go back to school for a degree in clinical psychology. With baby on the brain and term papers to write, I couldn’t ignore the barrage of research showing how easy it is to screw up your kids. Of course, everyone knows that growing up with “Mommy Dearest” produces a very different child from one raised by, say, a loving PTA president who has milk and homemade cookies waiting after school. But in that space between Joan Crawford and June Cleaver, where most of us fall, it seemed like a lot could go wrong in the kid-raising department.
The hit song by Twenty One Pilots tackles a generation's insecurities.
This is the inaugural “One Thing Considered,” an occasional attempt by Megan Garber and Conor Friedersdorf to talk through cultural artifacts that tickled their brains. In this edition, the artifact at hand is the song “Stressed Out,” the nostalgia-laced hit from the Ohio duo Twenty One Pilots (also known as Josh Dun and Tyler Joseph). It is the band’s first top 10 hit, having reached number two on the Billboard Hot 100.
Conor Friedersdorf: Would you trade the ups-and-downs of adult life for a soothing lullaby in your childhood bedroom? That’s the comforting fantasy that Twenty One Pilots conjure in “Stressed Out.” When I first heard the song, listening to KROQ on the 405 Freeway in Los Angeles, I thought, watch out Taylor Swift, ​this​ is the Millennial anthem.
Inside the president’s last-minute decision not to bomb Syria in 2013
Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price.
Copyright © 2016 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.