2013-07~12
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2009/jul/15/al-qaida-china-urumqi-threat

China urges its companies and workers to be on guard after al-Qaida threat | World news | The Guardian


Wednesday 15 July 2009 04.56 EDT


Last modified on Thursday 14 January 2016 17.42 EST


China's embassy in Algeria has urged Chinese companies and workers to be on guard after reports that al-Qaida's north African affiliate has called for retaliation for the deaths of Muslim Uighurs in Urumqi.
Stirling Assynt, a British-based risk analysis firm, warned yesterday that al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) – based in Algeria – had issued a call for vengeance, basing its statement on information from people who have seen the instruction.
Postings on an Islamist website have also suggested killing Han Chinese in the Middle East, the Associated Press reported.
A notice posted on the embassy website late last night said: "In light of the [riots], the Chinese embassy in Algeria reminds Chinese-funded companies and personnel to enhance security awareness and strengthen security measures."
Stirling Assynt stressed its report that it was not suggesting any direct link between Uighurs in Xinjiang province and al-Qaida, and said it was unlikely the central leadership of Osama bin Laden's terrorist network has decided to stage attacks within China.
Justin Crump, head of terrorism and country risk at the firm, said such a move would be counter-productive strategically because their main assets are in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Last week's inter-ethnic violence in Urumqi, capital of China's north-western Xinjiang province, left at least 184 dead. Officials say 137 were Han Chinese, 46 Uighurs and one a Hui man, but Uighurs have claimed far more of them died – either in a crackdown by security forces or at the hands of Han Chinese retaliating for brutal assaults by Uighurs.
Muslim Uighurs make up almost half the 21-million population of Xinjiang, but many resent strict cultural and religious controls.
China's foreign ministry yesterday rejected suggestions that the Urumqi riots would affect Beijing's relations with Muslim countries.
"If they have a clear idea about true nature of the incident, they would understand China's policies concerning religion and religious issues and understand the measures we have taken," said a spokesman, Qin Gang, at the ministry's regular news conference.
Wolfram Lacher, a north Africa analyst at another firm, Control Risks, downplayed the impact of events in Urumqi. He said although there was a "significant and credible threat" against Chinese firms, that threat had existed for some time and was not likely to change.
"Almost all foreign companies operating in Algeria – and the security forces who escort and protect foreign personnel – are regarded as legitimate and attractive targets by AQIM … Companies are targeted to attract public and international attention with the goal of demonstrating the inability of the authorities to fully protect foreign companies and thereby disrupt foreign investment and political stability," said Lacher.
"Also, some Chinese companies – particularly in infrastructure and construction [industries] – operate in areas known as strongholds of AQIM."
The Philippines national police directorate said it had tightened security around the Chinese embassy and consulates after a request from China's defence attache in Manila.
In a statement, the Uighur American Association (UAA) and the World Uighur Congress (WUC) said they were "extremely disturbed" by the threats, which they condemned. They said terrorist groups such as al-Qaida did not represent the aspirations of the Uighur people.
"I abhor violence," said Rebiya Kadeer, leader of the exiles. "I do not believe violence is a solution to any problem. Global terrorists should not take advantage of the Uighur people's legitimate aspirations and the current tragedy in East Turkestan [Xinjiang] to commit acts of terrorism targeting Chinese diplomatic missions or civilians."