2013-07~12
http://news.tj/en/news/exhibition-export-goods-china-s-xuar-takes-place-dushanbe

Exhibition of export goods from China’s XUAR takes place in Dushanbe | Tajikistan News-NA «Asia-Plus»
DUSHANBE, September 25, 2013, Asia-Plus -- An exhibition of export goods from China’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR) will kick off at the Kokhi Borbad State Complex in Dushanbe on September 27.
The event is organized by the Foreign Trade Department of China’s Ministry of Commerce, XUAR Commerce Department and Kashgar Administration (Kashgar Prefecture of XUAR) and Tajikistan’s Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI) and the Chinese Embassy in Dushanbe are co-organizers of the exhibition.
More than 70 Chinese companies will participate in the exhibition.  They will put on display more than 1,000 export goods at the fair that will run through September 30.
In a report released at a press conference in Dushanbe, the deputy governor of Kashgar, Wan Yun Chzhi (phonetically spelled), noted on September 26 that the main purpose of the event is in promoting further expansion of bilateral cooperation between the two friendly neighbors.
According to him, 150 entrepreneurs, representing more than 70 companies from China’s XUAR, have arrived in Dushanbe to participate in the exhibition.
On September 27, a meeting of Chinese entrepreneurs with their Tajik counterparts will take place at Istiqlol Hotel in Dushanbe and presentation of the Guangzhou New City industrial zone that was recently opened in Kashgar will be held on September 28.
Since 2004, similar exhibitions have taken place in Dushanbe, Kulob, Danghara, Gorno Badakhshan and other regions of Tajikistan.
Over the past decade, a two-way trade between Tajikistan and China has reportedly increased from 32 million U.S. dollars to 2 billion U.S. dollars. 
Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region is the largest Chinese administrative division.  Xinjiang borders Russia, Mongolia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India. It has abundant oil reserves and is China's largest natural gas-producing region.
Traditionally an agricultural region, Xinjiang also has large deposits of minerals and oil.  Xinjiang is known for its fruits and produce, including grapes, melons, pears, cotton, wheat, silk, walnuts and sheep. Particularly famous are Hami melons and Turpan raisins.  In 2008, Xinjiang's exports reportedly amounted to 19.3 billion USD, while imports turned out to be 2.9 billion USD.  