2013-07~12
http://www.worldbulletin.net/?aType=haber&ArticleID=123637

Anti-veil 'beauty' campaign raises tensions in East Turkistan | Islamic World | Worldbulletin News
Chinese authorities have launched the "Project Beauty" campaign, which aims to discourage women from covering their faces — a religious practice of some Muslim Uighurs women in the East Turkistan (Xinjiang) province.
A Xinjiang government web portal promoting Project Beauty did not mention banning veils directly, but listed its goals in promoting local beauty products and other goods, as well as encouraging women to be "practitioners of modern culture".
"We need to hold onto our traditions and they should understand that," said a 25-year-old woman who has been registered twice.
Those who wore veils were made to watch a film about the joys of exposing their faces. 
"The movie doesn't change a lot of people's minds," said the young woman, who, like others declined to give her name.
The residents of Kashgar, the capital of the Xinjiang province, say veil restrictions sparked at least one deadly conflict this year near the city, where 90 per cent of the area's 3.3 million residents are ethnic Uighur.
"Project Beauty" stands could be seen around the city, and a tailor said campaign staff had instructed him not to make the full-length robes often worn with the face veils.
The Uighur people declared the independence of East Turkistan in October 1933 but the region was brought under the control of communist China in 1949.
The Chinese government has encouraged the mass migration of Han Chinese, a majority ethnic group of eastern Asia, which has subdued Uighur influence in the region and made them a minority in their own land. 
Muslim Uighurs have complained that China has restrained Uighurs' religious, commercial and cultural activities.
According to newly released data collected in 11 countries with significant Muslim populations, views of ISIL group are overwhelmingly negative
Gentle hearted Saladin Ayyubi, was one of the world's greatest warriors - chivalrous, humane, agile, brilliant and courageous. On October 2nd 1187, 828 years ago yesterday, Jerusalem was liberated pushing back the surging wave of Christianity out to engulf the Holy Land.



 he conquered Jerusalem, pushing back the surging wave of Christianity out to engulf the Holy Land.
Muslims around the world have gathered in open parks and mosques, celebrating the Greater Eid, Eid ul Adha, known as the Feast of Sacrifice
More than two million pilgrims have gathered in the Arafat valley for a day of prayer, marking the pinnacle of hajj in Saudi Arabia.
For first time ever, Kenya is sending a record number 4,500 Muslims to Makkah for Hajj
Worldbulletin presents a photo essay of Muslims celebrating Eid ul Fitr around the world
Eid al-Fitr starts Friday in Turkey and lasts through Sunday.
Muslims gathered from across Saudi Arabia and the world to pray Taraweeh prayer on Ramadan’s 27th night
With the end of Ramadan approaching, shoppers in Ramadan hit the markets to do their food, clothing and gift shopping.
Knowing the correct time of the day for daily affairs is important and it is the inventions from Muslim scientists who have impacted current clock technologies.
Ramadan, the Muslim holy month of fasting, has begun and World Bulletin has put together pictures that showcases Muslims from across the Islam world during this sacred month.
In Addis Ababa, turnout at mosques was so high that main streets had to be closed to make way for worshippers
West Bank cities are being decorated to celebrate holy month of Ramadan with Ramallah lighting the biggest lantern for Ramadan
According to a report by Calico Mercato website, the amount will be used to develop mosques and Islamic centers in Florence province.
Quran prints that were written during the Prophet Muhammads lifetime are now on display at the Berlin State Library
Chinese police raided 148 points in Muslim Xinjiang in 2014
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
