2013-07~12
http://paktribune.com/news/Pakistan-bans-three-extremist-outfits-on-Chinas-request-263995.html

Pakistan bans three extremist outfits on China's request - PakTribune
RAWALPINDI: On the request of China, the government has decided to ban three extremist organisations allegedly involved in insurgent activities in the Chinese province of Xinjiang, BBC Urdu reported.
Quoting sources in the Interior Ministry, the report said the security agencies believed the three organisations were involved in extremist and insurgent activities in the Muslim-majority province of Xinjiang and inciting the local population against the government.
These banned outfits include the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and Islamic Jihad Union (IJU).The said bodies have been the subject of much concern in discussions between the Chinese and Pakistani civilian and military authorities.
The report quoting sources said this matter was raised by the Chinese officials during the visit of the prime minister. These three outfits are also included in the list of most dangerous outfits after al-Qaeda.
The Chinese officials had told Pakistan that members of these outfits were in contact with likeminded people in Xinjiang and they may use the Chinese population to pursue their plans.
The interior ministry sources were also quoted as saying that Pakistan had been in contact with the Turkish and Uzbek governments over ETIM and IMU, and had learned that over 50 people constituting these bodies were individuals highly wanted by local authorities. The outfits include 10 females and some of them are suicide-bombing trainers.
Pakistan is reported to have caught and arrested various members of these groups in operations against the militants in South Waziristan and other tribal areas.As these groups are also allied to al-Qaeda, there is a possibility that their members might also be fighting against the Pakistani, Afghan and Nato forces on both sides of the Pak-Afghan border.
The government has enhanced the security of Chinese diplomats in the country against possible attacks by these militants.At least 50-60 organisations already exist on Pakistan's list of banned outfits.