2013-07~12
http://www.bignewsnetwork.com/index.php/sid/219381442

China claims police killed eight terrorists in restive Xinjiang
Our eNewspaper network was founded in 2002 to provide stand-alone digital news sites tailored for the most searched-for locations for news. With a traditional newspaper format, more than 100 sites were established each with a newspaper-type name to cover the highest-ranked regions, countries, cities and states. Each site operates independently providing around-the-clock local news coverage, global & business updates, RSS feeds, and news releases.
Established in 1999, each News.Net site specializes in local news, weather, international headlines, business and finance reports. The News.Net directory of sites covers every major region, country and city around the world, as well as U.S. states and industry sectors. Each independently-operated portal is networked throughout the social media spectrum and is administered by Mainstream Media EC on behalf of Big News Network.
The government Xinjiang province, a large, resource-rich region that is home to the Uyghurs, a Turkic-speaking, predominantly Muslim ethnic group, said that nine people armed with knives threw explosives at the police building and set police cars on fire.
The Xinjiang government news portal said that the attack occurred in Shache county, which is overseen by the famed Silk Road city of Kashgar.
"Eight terrorists were shot dead and another one captured during a terrorist attack early Monday morning," official Xinhua news agency said, citing authorities.
The Associated Press said a Xinjiang government press officer who gave only his surname, Cao, confirmed the report but said he had no further information.
The attack, which occurred around 6:30 a.m., is under investigation, the authorities said.
The official statement about Monday's violence didn't specify the ethnicity of the attackers.
It's the latest outbreak of deadly unrest in Xinjiang where earlier this month, a clash left 14 Uyghurs and two police officers dead.
Chinese officials said the two police officers came under attack as they were trying to apprehend the suspects.
The region of oil and natural-gas fields that abuts Central Asia has witnessed a bloody unrest as Han Chinese people have arrived in Xinjiang in droves over the decades.
The Uyghurs fear that it may change the demographics of the region. Chinese authorities have cracked down heavily on violence involving Uyghurs, deepening resentment.
The account of Xinjiang violence often remains dim with no details as Uyghur diaspora groups, like the World Uyghur Congress, have criticized the Chinese government for the lack of transparency over such incidents, according to the CNN.
Chinese authorities have blamed Uyghurs for a vehicle attack in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October that killed five people -- including the three in the vehicle -- and wounded 40 others.
Xinjiang's worst violence in decades took place in July 2009, when rioting in the capital, Urumqi, between Uyghurs and Han Chinese killed some 200 people and injured 1,700. That unrest was followed by a crackdown by security forces, said the CNN. 
