2013-07~12
http://www.independent.ie/world-news/five-held-over-china-suicide-attack-29709957.html

Five held over China suicide attack - Independent.ie

Five people have been arrested suspected of being involved in the suicide car attack near Beijing's Tiananmen Square.

Beijing police the three people who died when they carried out Monday's incident have also also identified, and called it a carefully planned terrorist attack.
Two tourists, including a hit by the speeding vehicle, were also killed and another 38 injured. Police said knives, iron bars , petrol and a flag imprinted with religious slogans were found in the vehicle.
The three attackers, including one woman, and the five arrested all had names identifying them as members of the Turkic Muslim Uighur ethnic group native to the restive north-western region of Xinjiang where extremists have been battling security forces for years.
Of the 38 injured, five needed surgery, 12 are in intensive care, and 21 are in ordinary wards.
Texas police have accused the estranged wife of internationally renowned pianist Vadym Kholodenko of killing the couple's two young daughters before stabbing herself.
British actress Talulah Riley has filed to end her second marriage to billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk.
The Jeremy Kyle Show has been cleared by Ofcom after broadcasting an uncensored swear word because producers had not "understood" the guest's Scottish accent.

'It had all the attributes of 'a win, is a win, is a win''

Several bomb attacks have thrown the spotlight on security in Turkey. Here...

Whatever the cause, our careers often affect our personal relationships.

The 13 exchange students killed in a bus crash in north-eastern...

Debris found earlier this month off the southeast African coast which some believe could be from a...

An aviation official has said it will be very difficult to extract...

An aviation official has said it will be very difficult to extract...

The only suspected participant in Nov. 13 Paris attacks to be...

The world's largest aircraft has been unveiled for the first time...

They say crime does not pay, but new research suggests that mobsters who stay in school...

Russia has warned the United States that it will start...

Footage released by ESA shows astronauts Tim Peake and Scott Kelly zapping aliens as part of...

A heartbreaking video has gone viral on Facebook, of a mother...

At least 14 university students have been killed when the...

A young protester was attacked during Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump's...

Tens of thousands have gathered at a Buddhist temple in...

Four have been killed and 20 injured in a suicide bombing in...

Two Irish people have been injured in this morning's deadly bomb attack in Istanbul which killed...

An airliner flying from Dubai crashes in the southern Russian...

After years of compaigns against keeping killer whales in captivity SeaWorld has announced it will...