2013-07~12
http://www.worldbulletin.net/?aType=haber&ArticleID=121861

Uighur leader calls for int'l investigation into Tiananmen incident | Interviews & In Depth | Worldbulletin News
The exiled leader of China's Uighur community called on Wednesday for an international investigation into an incident in which a car ploughed into pedestrians in Beijing, after Chinese authorities arrested five suspected Uighurs over the attack.
The SUV vehicle burst into flames after being driven into a crowd on Tiananmen Square on Monday. The three occupants and two bystanders were killed, while dozens were injured. 
Rebiya Kadeer, president of the Munich-based World Uighur Congress, called the attack tragic but was equivocal on whether Uighurs - a Muslim people from China's far western region of Xinjiang(East Turkistan) - had carried it out.
Kadeer, who lives in the Washington area, warned against accepting at face value China's account of the incident.
"Chinese claims simply cannot be accepted as facts without an independent and international investigation of what took place in Beijing on Monday," Kadeer said.
China, which almost certainly will ignore Kadeer's call for an international investigation, said it caught five suspected Islamists - all of whom have names that suggest they are Uighur. Chinese authorities have also moved to tighten security in Xinjiang.
Asked whether she believed Uighurs were responsible, Kadeer said: "Maybe and maybe not. It is difficult to tell at the moment, given the strict control of information by the Chinese government on this tragic incident."
"If the Uighurs did it, I believe they did it out of desperation because there is no channel for the Uighur people to seek redress for any kind of injustice they had suffered under Chinese rule," she added.
Her comments were made in written replies to Reuters questions, translated from the Uighur language by an aide.
Kadeer is a former Chinese political prisoner accused of leaking state secrets in 1999 who left China on medical parole and settled near Washington with her husband and part of her family in 2005. The 66-year-old mother of 11 previously had been a celebrated millionaire who had advised China's parliament.
Kadeer said she feared the Tiananmen Square attack would join a long list of incidents that China uses "to justify its heavy-handed repression" in her native region, which she said was not alone in chafing under tight government control.
"We see the desperation not only in East Turkestan but in Tibet and other parts of China as well," she said.
"This is an overall problem in China, not specific to Uighurs," she said, noting some 150 self-immolations by Tibetans and numerous violent incidents by Chinese protesting land seizures and corruption.
"The root cause of the problem in East Turkestan, as in Tibet, is the colonial rule of the Chinese government and implementation of policies of cultural genocide - such as the systematic attacks on our language, culture, identity, values and religious beliefs," she said.
Kadeer, however, said, "I don't believe there is any kind of organized extremist Islamic movement operating in East Turkestan. It is almost impossible for Uighurs to organize because of China's stringent controls and attacks."
China's approach to Xinjiang (East Turkistan) has hardened over the past 12 years, creating an atmosphere "like a war zone", she said.
"Fully armed Chinese soldiers patrol Uighur neighborhoods, villages and towns. They frequently attack Uighurs and extrajudicially kill them in any kind of confrontation," Kadeer added.
The Uighur declared independence in October 1933 but the region went under the control of communist China in 1949.
There has been immigration of Han Chinese, a majority ethnic group to East Asia, which subdued Uighur influence in the region and made them a minority.
Muslim Uighur have complained that China has restrained Uighurs' religious, commercial and cultural activities.
Deniz Baran interview Muzzammi Thakur who answers crucial questions regarding the issue of Kashmir
Loss of knowledge causes an unconscious countermeasure resulting in antithesis of truth that manifests itself in words and actions far from the original meaning
Well-known Cape Town photo-journalist, radio show host tells about concept of media representation and depiction of and within Africa is explored
Various groups in Lebanon from different political backgrounds and sects have have come together to protest the governments failure and expressed their anger at the growing rubbish crisis.
We speak to four Muslims, who tell the story of their conversion to Islam
Four years after Egypt's 2011 uprising, raise suffering from unemployment, poor healthcare, electricity shortages
Today marks the 23rd anniversary of the killing of Azeri civilians in disputed circumstances during the bitter war for the Nagorno-Karabakh region.
The planned new pipeline route traces the contours of Russia's surviving friendships in Europe.
Prosecutors would have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that when Hicks killed the three Muslim-American students he was motivated by religious or ethnic animus
‘Selective perception’ shown In mainstream media’s failure to adequately cover murders of 3 American Muslim students.
"The Great Australian Race Riot" documents nine major riots since the mid-19th century, beginning with sectarian violence between Irish Catholics and British Protestants living in Melbourne
Experts said government efforts to seek changes in historical accounts would be counter-productive, since it would keep the issue of Japan's wartime past in public focus.
Hardline Hindu politicians impatient with Modi's refusal to champion their cause are beginning to advance their own agendas.
India will launch a campaign to explain the agreement to the public.
Since launching a military campaign last year against the hardline ISIL group in Syria and Iraq, Washington is now less focused than before on seeking Assad's downfall
The emerging fragmentation of the Arabian Peninsula country has sparked fears of the "Somalisation" of a state
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
