2013-07~12
http://www.nationalrighttolifenews.org/news/2013/12/four-more-women-forced-to-abort-in-northwest-chinese-province-one-mother-was-in-her-ninth-month/

Four more women forced to abort in northwest Chinese province, one mother was in her ninth month | NRL News Today
A Uyghur woman with her children in Kashgar, Xinjiang, July 1, 2012.PHOTONONSTOP
Radio Free Asia reported today a horrific story of authorities forcing four Uyghur women in China’s northwestern region of Xinjiang to abort their babies. One woman was nine months into her pregnancy. The mothers were injected with unspecified abortion-inducing drugs
Besides the testimony of parents, RFA confirmed that the abortions had taken place with several sources, “We had planned to perform forced abortions on six women. Four of them have already undergone the abortions,” Eniver Momin, deputy chief of Hotan’s Arish township, told RFA’s Uyghur Service. “One more woman is waiting in a hospital to undergo the abortion while another woman has escaped before undergoing the process,” Momin said.
Awat Han, head of the family planning department in Arish township, said “she was only following orders from the higher authorities bent on enforcing the controversial one-child policy introduced in the 1970’s to curb population growth,” RFA’s Shohret Hoshur reported.
Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region is “home to some 10 million mostly Muslim Uyghurs who say they have long suffered ethnic discrimination and oppressive religious controls under Beijing’s policies,” he wrote. In theory, because the Uyghur are an ethnic minority (Muslims), they are supposed to be exempt from the one-child policy.
One of the husbands told RFA he and his wife were anxiously awaiting the birth of their son, after having three daughters. He said that although they were willing to pay the fine—between $8,250 and $16,500 in U.S. dollars– in November Awat Han and others had begun to try to force his sixth-month- pregnant wife to have an abortion.
His wife hid but was eventually found and taken to a hospital in Arish Township. The man told Hoshur
“’My wife was injected by doctors at 11 p.m. on Wednesday and she gave birth at 5 p.m. the next day. My son was crying when he was born.’
“Kawul said he stormed into the delivery room when he heard the cries of his son and wife, grabbed the baby and took him to a nearby hospital in a bid to save him.
“’The doctors in the hospital tried to save him but failed, citing the abortion drug that had already been injected. My son died an hour after he was born.’
“Kawul said that at the Nurluq Hospital, where his wife is now recovering, another Uyghur woman was awaiting a forced abortion, identifying her as Rozihan Memet and her husband as Metkurban Nuri.
The U.S.-based Women’s Rights Without Frontiers, an international coalition monitoring forced abortion, gendercide, and sexual slavery in China, said that Uyghurs are allowed two children, if they live in the city, and three, if they live in the countryside. “Uyghurs who exceed this limit are subject to forced abortion, forced sterilization, and other coercive measures,” the group said.
Shohret Hoshur reported that Eniver Momin said “local authorities are considering whether to suspend performing forced abortions amid public concerns over the four cases.”
Receive NRL News Today 
in Your E-Mail 
 Click here to sign up!
NRL

News Links
 National
Right to Life
 National Right to Life News
