2013-07~12
http://www.economist.com/news/china/21589447-chinas-new-rail-network-already-worlds-longest-will-soon-stretch-considerably-farther-faster

Faster than a speeding bullet | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
THE new high-speed railway line to Urumqi climbs hundreds of metres onto the Tibetan plateau before slicing past the valley where the Dalai Lama was born. It climbs to oxygen-starved altitudes and then descends to the edge of the Gobi desert for a final sprint of several hundred windblown kilometres across a Martian landscape. The line will reach higher than any other bullet-train track in the world and extend what is already by far the world’s longest high-speed rail network by nearly one-fifth compared with its current length. The challenge will be explaining why this particular stretch is necessary.
Record-breaking milestones have become routine in the breathtaking development of high-speed railways in China, known as gaotie. In just five years, since the first one connected Beijing with the nearby port of Tianjin in 2008, high-speed track in service has reached 10,000 kilometres (6,200 miles), more than in all of Europe. The network has expanded to link more than 100 cities. In December the last section was opened on the world’s longest gaotie line, stretching 2,400km from Beijing to Shenzhen, on the border with Hong Kong (see map). The network has confounded some sceptics who believed there would not be enough demand. High-speed trains carry almost 2m people daily, which is about one-third of the total number of rail passengers.
Most of China’s gaotie construction has focused on the country’s densely populated east and centre. The Beijing-Shenzhen line, which is due to be extended into Hong Kong by 2015, links half a dozen provinces and 28 cities. In 2009 work began on the section that will connect the north-west of the country, a line that could hardly be more different from those that criss-cross the booming east. It stretches 1,776km from Lanzhou, the capital of the western province of Gansu, to Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang, an “autonomous region” bordering on Central Asia. Officials put the cost at 144 billion yuan ($24 billion); cheap perhaps compared with the 400-billion-yuan line from Beijing to Shenzhen, but it traverses such a vast stretch of barely inhabited terrain that land and rehousing costs are negligible.
Officials have given the project the ponderous name of the Lanxin Railway Second Double-Tracked Line. This is to distinguish it from a conventional line from Lanzhou to Xinjiang (the first syllables of which form the name Lanxin) that was completed in 1962. Oddly, however, it does not follow the same route. Instead of heading north from Lanzhou along the old Silk Road through Gansu, it detours into adjacent Qinghai province on the Tibetan plateau and opts for a far tougher route through the snowy Qilian Mountains before re-entering Gansu 480km later and picking up the old trail into Xinjiang.
Reports in the official media about the new Lanxin line are for the most part silent about the reasons for this diversion. There is little economic pull between Qinghai and Xinjiang. Just one flight a day takes off from Xining, the capital of Qinghai, to Urumqi. There are as many as eight a day from Lanzhou. In 2011 China Daily, an English-language newspaper in Beijing, quoted an unnamed researcher from the China Academy of Railway Sciences as saying it would be difficult to make any money from the line. “It’s more of a political thing,” he said. “It’s more about national defence and ethnic unity.” State-controlled media sometimes refer to it as “a political line, an economic line and a line of happiness”. The order is important.
Officials often talk of the line’s intended role in promoting ethnic harmony. But it appears to be more about knitting the country together. Tibetan exiles regard Qinghai as part of historical Tibetan territory. Some Uighurs want to make Xinjiang an independent “East Turkestan”. Officials say terrorist threats have been directed at the Xinjiang leg, and a recent incident in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square has been blamed on Uighur “terrorists” (see article). When the gaotie line opens, which is expected in late 2014, it will incorporate into the network three provinces covering about 30% of China’s land area. It will be a grand statement of the network’s, and the government’s, reach. Within a few years, Tibet is likely to be the only province without a high-speed line. But this is because even the government appears to reckon that a bullet train to Lhasa would be too costly. Tibet was connected to the conventional network only in 2006 after a remarkable feat of engineering involving track laid on permafrost.
Even some residents of Qinghai and Xinjiang seem unclear about the new rail line, most of which looks almost complete. East of Xining in Hongya village, where the Dalai Lama was born, a farmer describing himself as a relative of the exiled Tibetan leader says he believes the elevated track at the bottom of the valley 40 minutes’ drive away leads to Lhasa. In Xinjiang some residents seem unaware that the track will go through Qinghai. Few talk of the possible delights of sitting on a bullet train for eight hours between Urumqi and Lanzhou. Even though it will cut the journey time from 22 hours, it will still be far quicker to fly. Only one large city—Xining—lies between. Other stops are mostly remote towns.
One obvious benefit for Qinghai, or at least its image-obsessed officials, is an excuse to spend lots of money on the construction of business parks and apartment blocks around lavish new railway stations. The county surrounding the Dalai Lama’s ancestral home is engaged in an orgy of construction in what it calls a “high-speed rail new district”. Another benefit will be easier access for tourists to vast fields of rape that bloom in July in an explosion of photogenic yellow in Menyuan county north of Xining. Menyuan’s new station will disgorge passengers into the middle of such a field that is tended by inmates of a nearby prison (its function disguised by the name “Haomen farm”).
In the Qilian Mountains in the north of Menyuan 2,000 workers are toiling in plummeting temperatures on a 16km-stretch of tunnels, joined by a bridge, at an altitude of more than 3,600 metres (nearly 12,000 feet), the highest point of any high-speed track in the world. The official media have called this the most difficult tunnel project in Chinese railway history, owing to the area’s unstable geology. In September a 5.1-magnitude earthquake suspended work for a day. Construction of this segment is due to finish in early 2014 after more than three years. Beyond the mountains, on the fringe of the Gobi desert, workers face another problem: winds so strong that they derailed a train on the existing railway line in 2007. China Daily said gusts hurled grit so violently that it shattered the windows of engineers’ cars when they inspected the area three years ago. In one stretch, affected by gale-force winds 250 days of the year, the bullet train will pass through a concrete tunnel built to protect it.
Of the three provinces traversed by the line, Xinjiang has the most reason to celebrate, its excitement evident in the building of a colossal airport-style bullet-train station just outside Urumqi, with a vast new development zone around it. The province has 40% of the country’s reserves of coal. Bottlenecks on the conventional Lanxin line have frustrated efforts to exploit huge demand for coal in the east. Once the bullet trains are running, the plan is to dedicate the old line to freight. Zhao Jian of Beijing Jiaotong University is sceptical. “It’s preposterous”, he says. “Why not just build a new freight line?” To China’s rail planners, ever in pursuit of grandiose modernity, that would be too simple.
The country faces a choice between comfortable isolation and bracing openness. Go for openness
In both America and Europe central bankers should be pushing prices upwards
By choosing Bill de Blasio, New Yorkers have taken a risk with their city’s prosperity
Outsiders will not bring peace to Syria unless they face up to some difficult choices
The crackdown on shell companies is a good start. The next target should be trusts
Bringing an end to conflicts within states is vexatious. But history provides a guide to the ways...
Some say killing 25 people a year is enough, others suggest 1,000
The Big Apple has been well run for 20 years. The mayor-elect promises change
The races in Virginia and New Jersey offer a clear lesson for Republicans
Treating immigrants as a charity case is not working: time to change course
A more left-wing Michelle Bachelet is set to win on a tide of social discontent
Rob Ford confesses to all manner of vices, but will not resign
The government’s latest attempt to get Thaksin Shinawatra back has united almost everyone against...
In response to a thug’s demise, Pakistan wrings its hands
President Rajapaksa and the country under him are in a rush
A mass conviction of mutineers comes at a politically delicate moment
America is infuriated by the incessant squabbles between Japan and South Korea
Deaths in Tiananmen Square unnerve leaders before a crucial gathering
The big powers and the regional ones cannot even muster a quorum for peace talks
Avigdor Lieberman’s acquittal could shake up Israeli politics all over again
With aplomb, the king is weathering storms at home and abroad
The country’s leaders must and can prevent a slide back to civil war
A vast trove of art comes to light in a Munich flat after seven decades
A largely smooth local election in a country with a turbulent past
Germany is disheartened by America, its one-time mentor, protector and role model
Why an influx of foreign money is good for London’s property market
Why so many Britons are working from home, and where
Two very different models for running a diverse bit of east London
Britain’s memorial ceremonies would be improved by a history lesson
Cleaning up trusts and similar entities will hurt money-launderers—but it will need a lot of...
Countries change their constitutions often. There’s an app for that
Britain has lost its global swagger. It needs to abandon its separatist dreams and rediscover its...
Britain would be able to sell more if it stopped bashing bankers and immigrants
Britain is surpassingly good at selling songs and talent shows on TV
Britain’s leaders do not want it to leave the EU, but it could happen anyway
Britain no longer has a serious race problem. The trouble is isolation
Even if Scotland votes to stay in the United Kingdom, the union is fraying
Led by London, big cities are sucking up talent, jobs and investment from everywhere else. Good
China’s online-video market is the largest and most innovative in the world. It is also the most...
Big consulting and accounting firms are making a risky move into strategy work
Daimler is set to keep chugging down the Autobahn behind BMW and Audi
Brazil’s biggest software firm sees a sluggish economy as an opportunity
For a fallen star of the smartphone industry, things go from bad to worse
The collapse of Spain’s Fagor tests the world’s largest group of co-operatives
Big business in Japan publicly supports Abenomics while being privately wary
The rich world, and especially the euro zone, risks harmfully low inflation
Investors and companies struggle with the arbitrary nature of new taxes and regulations
It is getting harder to make money from the world’s most prolific card-users
Banks that have no branches are making a surprising resurgence
After a decade-long boom, emerging markets have flopped and then bounced in the past six months. The...
A hedge fund, but not its boss, admits insider-trading charges
A promise of higher inflation from central banks might spur the recovery—if it is believed
Stung by revelations of ubiquitous surveillance and compromised software, the internet’s engineers...
The latest batch of results from Kepler is both illuminating and baffling
A hundred years after the first excavations, the asphalt pools at Rancho La Brea, in Los Angeles,...
Early stories of women who knew how to lean in
Sir Anthony Caro, sculptor, died on October 23rd, aged 89
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more