2013-07~12
http://www.bignewsnetwork.com/index.php/sid/219132655/scat/b8de8e630faf3631/ht/Report-16-dead-in-clashes-in-Chinas-Xinjiang-province

Report 16 dead in clashes in China Xinjiang province
Our eNewspaper network was founded in 2002 to provide stand-alone digital news sites tailored for the most searched-for locations for news. With a traditional newspaper format, more than 100 sites were established each with a newspaper-type name to cover the highest-ranked regions, countries, cities and states. Each site operates independently providing around-the-clock local news coverage, global & business updates, RSS feeds, and news releases.
Established in 1999, each News.Net site specializes in local news, weather, international headlines, business and finance reports. The News.Net directory of sites covers every major region, country and city around the world, as well as U.S. states and industry sectors. Each independently-operated portal is networked throughout the social media spectrum and is administered by Mainstream Media EC on behalf of Big News Network.
Tianshan, the Xinjiang government's official news portal, said 14 of the dead in the Sunday fight fighting near the town of Kashgar were "violent assailants," the South China Morning Post reported.
The Tianshan news website said the clashes began after local police, who were trying to arrest suspects in another incident, were ambushed by bomb-throwing, machete-wielding assailants.
Tianshan said the incident was a "terrorist attack" but didn't identify the ethnicity of the alleged attackers, CNN reported.
The Xinjiang-Uighur region is close to the border with Pakistan and Afghanistan.
Muslim Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking minority in China, resent being ruled by the majority Han Chinese. China maintains foreign Uighur groups linked to the East Turkistan Islamic Movement are to blame for much trouble in the region but the World Uighur Congress, based in Stockholm, Sweden, disputes the allegation.
International human rights groups have said China has heavy-handed security policies in Xinjiang that create ethnic tensions.
In October, Chinese authorities blamed Uighurs for a fiery vehicle crash that killed five people and injured 40 in Beijing's Tiananmen Square.
In 2009, riots killed about 200 people in Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang region. 
