2013-07~12
http://www.worldbulletin.net/?aType=haber&ArticleID=121794

China looking for 8 Uighurs connected to suspected attack | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
Chinese police were scouring hotels in Beijing on Wednesday for eight people wanted in connection with the crash of an SUV at Beijing's Tiananmen Square, which authorities suspect may have been a suicide attack by people from the East Turkistan region.
A security guard at a guesthouse in Beijing that is owned by the local government of Karamay city in East Turkistan said the hotel had received a list of eight suspects to watch for.
East Turkistan, in the far west, is home to China's Uighur Muslim minority and borders the Central Asian states of the former Soviet Union as well as Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Another employee at the guesthouse said police sent a notice to them on Tuesday, saying staff should be "cautious about Uighurs who check in at our hotel."
In Monday's crash, three people from East Turkistan are suspected to have driven the sport utility vehicle into a crowd of bystanders at Tiananmen Square, the iconic heart of the Chinese state, and set it on fire, two senior sources have told Reuters.
The three occupants and two tourists were killed and at least 38 people were injured, in what could be the first major suicide attack in China.
China has not said officially whether the incident was an attack or an accident.
Two hotels contacted by Reuters said authorities were also searching for five vehicles in connection with the suspects. They are also searching for a red motorcycle.
Beijing police did not reply to a faxed request for comment.
China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs urged people not to jump to conclusions when asked if the government believed that the Tiananmen crash was an attack.
"Relevant departments are carrying out an investigation," said Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying. ""We ought to wait for the results of the probe to come out."
Uighur activists have long criticised the Chinese government for repressing their language and culture, and say that they have been cut off from much of the economic investment in the oil and gas industry in their resource-rich home region.
"There has been an acceleration of Uighur unrest, and most of it stems from Chinese policy," said Michael Clarke, a professor at Griffith University in Australia who has studied the history and politics of East Turkistan. "The extension of economic modernisation to Xinjiang has gone hand in hand with marginalisation of the Uighurs."
"There really needs to be a reassessment of China's approach to Xinjiang," he added.
Uighur activists have said they fear the government will take advantage of the incident to inflict even more repressive policies on Uighurs all over the country.
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
Chinese police raided 148 points in Muslim Xinjiang in 2014
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
