2013-07~12
http://ajw.asahi.com/article/asia/china/AJ201307040086

Heavy police presence maintaining order in Xinjiang capital - AJW by The Asahi Shimbun
URUMQI, China--Heavily-armed riot police were out in force in the capital of the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region on July 3, two days before the fourth anniversary of disturbances that left close to 200 people dead.
However, the streets were calm, and local residents avoided eye contact with the police, who were equipped with firearms, shields and batons.
The Chinese authorities have reinforced security in Urumqi following a spate of violence in recent weeks.
On June 26, 35 people died when a police station in Lukqun, Turpan prefecture, was attacked by a knife-wielding group. Another attack occurred on June 28 in Hotan in the southern part of Xinjiang.
Although Chinese authorities have not publicized the ethnicity of the assailants, a government source with the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region said on July 3 that all 17 of those involved in the Lukqun attack were Uighurs.
China’s top leadership does not want a repeat of what happened four years ago, when rioting left 197 dead and more than 1,600 injured.
President Xi Jinping told a meeting of the Central Politburo Standing Committee on June 28 that stability in Xinjiang is a priority.
On June 29, Yu Zhengsheng, who ranks fourth in the party hierarchy and heads the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, went to Urumqi to verbally direct the police to crack down on "terrorists."
In response, the public security agency of the autonomous region announced on July 1 that it would pay a reward to anyone with information about terrorist acts. A notice was also issued asking for the voluntary submittal of swords with blades of more than 15 centimeters as well as explosives. Those who failed to hand over the swords and explosives within 10 days would face stern punishment.
The politics and economy of the autonomous region are dominated by Han Chinese, the country’s largest ethnic group, and the Uighurs claim that they are not permitted to observe their Muslim religion freely.
With the fourth anniversary approaching, there have been signs of greater disgruntlement toward the Han Chinese and authorities on the part of Uighurs and other ethnic minorities.
A 25-year-old self-employed businessman in Urumqi did not hide his distrust of the Chinese authorities.
"Those who patrol the streets with guns in their hands are prepared to shoot at us Uighurs at any time," he said.
A 28-year-old man who works in the construction industry in Urumqi said, "About the only thing the Han Chinese who move to the autonomous region know about the Uighurs is that we like lamb shish kebabs."
The man said that when he was trying to find a job, several companies rejected him just because he was an Uighur.
On June 29, the streets of Urumqi were closed off for a major military exercise in which troops were ferried about in personnel carriers.
An Uighur company employee in his 30s said: "The authorities probably wanted to show off their power. It makes us very concerned."
The strengthened security measures are a sign the Xi administration does not want any black marks on its record, especially so early in its term.
Zhang Chunxian, secretary of the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region Communist Party committee, suggested that the recent incidents were merely criminal acts rather than the result of ethnic conflict.
"The terrorists are the common enemy of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang," he said.
Armed police keep a sharp eye on visitors to the international bazaar in Urumqi. (Kim Soon-hi)
BEIJING--China's chief prosecutor said Sunday that battling "infiltration, subversion and sabotage by hostile forces" is a key priority this year, with terrorists, ethnic separatists and religious extremists all in his cross hairs.
BANGKOK--Thailand's prime minister defended on July 9 a decision to forcibly return nearly 100 Uighur Muslim migrants to China despite rights groups' fears they could face ill-treatment, saying it was not Bangkok's fault if they suffered problems.
BEIJING--A Chinese court on Sept. 23 jailed for life the country's most prominent advocate for the rights of Muslim Uighur people, a sentence that rights advocates said sent a clear signal that the government is determined to suppress dissent.
SHANGHAI--China has executed eight people for "terrorist" attacks in its restive far western region of Xinjiang, including three who "masterminded" a dramatic car crash in the capital's Tiananmen Square in 2013, state media said.
China jails 25 more people for terror crimes in Xinjiang
BEIJING--A court in China's unruly far western region of Xinjiang has sentenced 25 more people to jail terms ranging from three years to life for terror-related offenses, state media said Aug. 12, as the government clamps down on a surge in violence.
Copyright The Asahi Shimbun Company. All rights reserved. No reproduction or republication without written permission.