2013-07~12
http://www.timeslive.co.za/thetimes/2013/09/26/china-to-rent-5-of-ukraine

China 'to rent 5% of Ukraine' - Times LIVE

 The police don't have airtime - so don't expect a fast response when you're in deadly danger.

 President Robert Mugabe, whose red-carpet stumbles are well known, warned his main opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to be careful not to trip on a step at a plush hotel in Harare recently, a newspaper reported on Sunday.

 An Indian entrepreneur has set up what is claimed to be the country's first marriage bureau for homosexuals.

 The SA Communist Party has attacked the Gupta family and accused it of funding factions in the ANC.

 Kaizer Chiefs held Asec Mimosas to a 0-0 draw in the second leg of their Caf Champions League first-round tie at Houphouet Boigny Stadium in Abidjan on Sunday‚ which was not enough to prevent Amakhosi exiting 1-0 on aggregate.

 Joe Pietersen missed a simple penalty after the hooter to leave the Sharks and Bulls tied for a 16-16 draw at Loftus on Friday.

 AB de Villiers announced himself at the World Twenty20 with a swashbuckling 64 and made Afghanistan pay heavily for dropping him twice as South Africa revived their campaign with a 37-run victory at the Wankhede Stadium on Sunday.

 With another $6.3-million up for grabs when the PGA Tour completes its Florida swing, it is an opportune moment to salute the prime architect behind such riches.

 More than two dozen players who feature in evidence collected from gamblers should be investigated for possible links to betting rings, an Italian prosecutor has told the BBC and BuzzFeed News.

 Nico Rosberg capitalised on a slow start off pole by world champion teammate Lewis Hamilton and superior tyre strategy over Ferrari to win the season-opening Australian Grand Prix on Sunday.

 In the build-up to a fight, it's not just Hekkie Budler who makes sacrifices - wife Roxy also has to do her bit.

 Bruce Springsteen has written an apology note for a schoolboy in case he was late to class after attending his concert.

 Bruce Springsteen has written an apology note for a schoolboy in case he was late to class after attending his concert.

 Zebra & Giraffe has announced that they are splitting up after eight years.

 Sunday Times and Delta Airlines are giving away three pairs of plane tickets to any American city.

 Paracetamol, a common over-the-counter pain-reliever, does not work in the treatment of osteoarthritis, a joint disorder afflicting tens of millions of elderly people.

 Erectile dysfunction (ED) is not just for older men. While studies show that even younger men battle the condition, most men may not be ready to talk about it.

 Dr Michael Mol and John Berry's new cookbook is aimed at the everyday family cook who has their eye on healthier meals, but that doesn't mean dessert is off the menu. Try their recipe for chocolate tartlets

 If you sign a contract that includes a clause which is not compliant with the Consumer Protection Act, does that mean that you forfeit that protection?

 Progress in reducing carbon intensity in the travel and tourism industry can be attributed to several actions, according to a new report by the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC).

 Although “no incidents involving defective inflators have been reported” Honda Motor Southern Africa on Thursday “expanded its recall campaign to replace Takata-supplied airbag inflators”.

 Australia's iconic Sydney Opera House and Harbour Bridge went dark on Saturday night, as the Earth Hour campaign to switch off lights to call for action on climate change began rolling out across the planet, organisers said.

 To Professor Mandla Makhanya, Principal of the University of South Africa

 All data is delayed by 15 min. Data supplied by Profile Data 
 Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.

It would be the biggest "land grab" agreement, in which one country leases or sells land to another, in a trend that has been compared to the 19th-century "scramble for Africa", but which is now spreading to the vast and fertile plains of eastern Europe.
Under the 50-year plan, China would eventually control three million hectares, which represents 9% of Ukraine's arable land. Initially 100000 hectares would be leased.
The farmland in the eastern Dnipropetrovsk region would be cultivated principally for growing crops and raising pigs. The produce will be sold at preferential prices to Chinese state-owned conglomerates, said Xinjiang Production and Construction.
Xinjiang said on Tuesday that it had signed the £1.7-billion (R27-billion) agreement in June with KSG Agro, Ukraine's leading agricultural company. I t said it had only reached agreement for the Chinese to modernise 3000 hectares .
Any sort of "land-grab" deal can be highly sensitive politically. Madagascar was forced to scrap a plan to lease 1.2 million hectares to South Korea in 2009 after angry protests against "neo-colonialism". The Philippines has also blocked a China investment deal. - ©The Daily Telegraph