2013-07~12
http://www.irishsun.com/index.php/sid/218079701/scat/b8de8e630faf3631

Five Uighurs detained in connection with Tiananmen car blaze - Irish Sun
• The Xinjiang-registered SUV involved in Monday's incident in which five people were killed was driven by Usmen Hasan
• Five people connected with the incident were caught just 10 hours after the attack, with help from the Xinjiang government
• Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the main exiled Uighur group, the World Uyghur Congress, warned against believing China's side of the story.
BEIJING - China police said five people have been arrested in connection with the car crash in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, calling it a terrorist attack and identifying the attackers as members of a Muslim minority from Xinjian province.
Authorities also moved to tighten security in the restive far western, energy-rich region of Xinjiang from where the suspects hail.
The Xinjiang-registered SUV involved in Monday's incident in which five people were killed was driven by Usmen Hasan, police said, a man whose name suggested he is an ethnic Uighur, a Muslim people from Xinjiang.
His wife and mother were with him in the car, along with devices filled with gasoline, knives and a flag with "religious extremist content" written on it, police said on their official microblog.
The police identified the mother as Kuwanhan Reyim and his wife Gulkiz Gini. All three died, police officials said.
The vehicle ploughed into pedestrians in the square, which has drawn occasional protests since
the 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations were suppressed by the military. Sources earlier told Reuters it was a suspected suicide attack.
"Police have identified Monday's incident at Tiananmen Square as a violent terrorist attack which was carefully planned, organized and premeditated," police said, adding that the three people in the vehicle died after they set the gasoline on fire.
The other two people killed were tourists. At least 38 people were injured.
Five people connected with the incident were caught just 10 hours after the attack, with help from the Xinjiang government, the police added, all of whom also have names that suggest they are Uighur.
Police said they had seized Islamist militant flags and knives from where they were staying.
"As a common enemy of mankind, terrorism has no future, and is doomed to failure," state television said in a commentary on its microblog. "We firmly believe that the Communist Party and government have the ability and the power to resolutely beat back and defeat all illegal terrorist activities."
All three attackers died when their vehicle exploded beneath the portrait of Mao Zedong hanging from Tiananmen Gate. Two tourists, including a Filipino woman, were killed by the vehicle as it sped down a crowded sidewalk, and 38 people were injured, including three Filipino citizens and a Japanese man.
Uighurs are Muslim Turks native to the restive northwestern region of Xinjiang where extremists opposed to Chinese rule have been battling security forces for years.
The statement said the five detained had helped plan and execute the attack, and were caught 10 hours after it was carried out.
It said they had been on the run and were tracked down with the help of police in Xinjiang and elsewhere. It didn't say where they were captured
They were identified as Husanjan Wuxur, Gulnar Tuhtiniyaz, Yusup Umarniyaz, Bujanat Abdukadir and Yusup Ahmat all Uighurs from Xinjiang.
As authorities stepped up already-tight security in Xinjiang, Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the main exiled Uighur group, the World Uyghur Congress, warned against believing China's side of the story.
"Beijing has always made these kind of accusations, but they refuse to make public the reasoning behind them. They will not make the story behind the accusations transparent," he told Reuters.
Raxit said he was worried the incident would provide authorities with an excuse "to further repress Uighurs".
"If an attack is committed by a Han Chinese, it's not terrorism, but if a Uighur commits it, it is," he said, referring to the majority community. "Beijing makes these accusations in service of an ulterior motive."
It insists it respects the region's people and traditions and blames separatist Uighur militants for provoking violence in Xinjiang, which borders the Central Asian states of the former Soviet Union as well as Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Police have identified one of the suspects as being from Lukqun, where 35 people died in June in what China also termed a terrorist attack.
"We have some police matters we are handling. For security reasons, you are not allowed in. I imagine it will be at least another month or two before this area is open," a police officer at the checkpoint said.
by Muhammad Aamir SHARJAH, 21st March, 2016 (WAM) -- Shamma bint Sohail Faris AlMazrui, Minister of State for Youth Affairs, has put forward the suggestion of governmental interaction departments to enable two-way communication with the youth of the UAE.
"As a government, we face a big challenge and this is not just in the UAE but all around the world, which is getting information through social media and smart phones that poses another question for us, that is, 'what are the channels which we have to use in governmental communication to reach the youth?'. The answer to this question is important but what is more important is finding its solution. The practical solution is the two way communications, from the youth and to them," she said in her speech on the second day of the International Government Communication Forum, IGCF 2016, at the Sharjah Expo Centre.
She added, "We talk to the youth and do not listen to them, and we cannot blame the youth for not interacting with us if we do not spend the additional effort in the whole communication with them regarding the matters which are important to them. Perhaps reality soon will force us to change the names of the governmental communication departments to departments of governmental interaction and not just communication. This is the suggestion which I present today through this platform. Yes, youth wants departments of governmental interaction more than communication which is a one way path."
She thanked H.H. Dr. Sheikh Sultan bin Mohammed Al Qasimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Sharjah, for his keenness for youth and education, saying that Sharjah has one of the biggest academic complexes in the region. She said, "It is well known that education, science and knowledge enable youth, and open new horizons of the future for them. Therefore, we thank H.H. the Ruler of Sharjah for the role he played in changing their lives."
Present on the occasion were Sheikha Bodour bint Sultan Al Qasimi, Chairperson of Sharjah Investment and Development Authority, Shurooq, Sheikh Sultan bin Ahmed Al Qasimi, Chairman of Sharjah Media Centre, SMC, Mary Robinson, former President of Ireland (1990-1997) and former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (1997-2002), and Christopher Gardner, author and entrepreneur.
The Minister of State for Youth Affairs said, "Our leadership gives great attention to direct communication through all available channels within all sectors of the society, and of course under this belief is the necessity of listening to citizens and communicating with them.
"Vice President and Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, listens to everyone in society and asks for their opinions regarding matters which are important to them through different platforms.
"His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces also interacts with all sectors of society directly through his field visits. All our leaders are role models. They present to us the best example of interaction and communication with all sectors of society."
"H.H. the Ruler of Sharjah interacts with everyone and communicates with different segments of society, never hesitating to interact with them, even directly live on the radio."
She added, "At the UAE Youth Council, we are listening to the youth about matters which are important to them and we also encourage the youth in finding the best solutions for their issues. But in order to achieve this goal, we need our government speech to be two way, from the youth and to the youth.
"We need our speech and government communication to be modern, using the language of the youth. If we want to understand the youth, all of our governmental communication departments must open direct and diverse channels with them, and we have to be where they are, and communicating with them through the use of the same modern technology which they use, listening to their voices, opinions and aspirations, otherwise we would be left, in the words of H.H. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, 'Swimming against the currents'."
DONEGAL, Ireland - Several emergency response teams have gathered at the location of a tragic ...
CORK, Ireland - A man in his early 70s is said to have died on ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - Hundreds of passengers were left in the lurch after dozens of flights ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - Gardai have made another breakthrough in the probe relating to the horrific ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - A huge amount of money that was allocated by a European fund ...
Get the latest Irish Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Irish Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved