2013-07~12
http://www.bendbulletin.com/nation/2639204-151/terror-attack-in-chinas-xinjiang-region-kills-15

Terror attack in China’s Xinjiang region kills 15;
BEIJING — Fifteen people died in a terrorist attack in China’s rebellious Xinjiang region, state media reported Saturday, despite Beijing’s recent efforts to strengthen security in the far-west part of the country.
According to China’s Xinhua news service, 11 of the dead were “mobsters” who tossed explosive devices and attacked civilians with knives on a food market street in Shache County, south of Kashgar, at about 1:30 p.m. on Friday. Police on patrol nearby killed the 11 attackers, and 14 people were injured, Xinhua reported.
Shache, part of Kashgar Prefecture, is the same county where 37 people were reportedly killed in an ax-and-knife attack on July 28. According to Xinhua, a local court sentenced 12 of the attackers to death in October. Fifteen more were sentenced to death with a two-year reprieve.
As with the reported attack in July, none of what Xinhua reported Saturday could be independently confirmed, including the assertion that “mobsters” were responsible. Foreign media are restricted from traveling freely in much of Xinjiang, an enormous region in western China beset by years of ethnic unrest.
Muslim Uighurs, who once were the majority in Xinjiang, have long resented Beijing’s rule and policies of assimilation. Over the past two years, Uighur militants have unleashed repeated attacks against police and civilians, not just in Xinjiang, but also in other regions of China.
As is standard in state media, Xinhua’s report Saturday did not describe the alleged terrorists, nor did it detail the ethnicity of those attacked. Xinhua said “a number of explosive devices, knives and axes were found at the scene,” and that those injured were receiving treatment at local hospitals.
The attacks follow efforts by President Xi Jinping to shore up security in Xinjiang, a region of vast natural resources that is crucial to Xi’s plan to expand economic ties with Kazakhstan and other nations that border the region.
State media last week reported that Xinjiang was seeking 3,000 former troops from the People’s Liberation Army — people “of high political quality and military experience” — to supplement security in the region.
Also last week, the government issued a six-month report card on Xinjiang’s security campaign. The report said police had detained 334 suspects and prosecuted 294 cases of people sharing materials to promote terrorism, including videos and audio.
After a series of deadly attacks in Xinjiang, Xi last year fired Gen. Peng Yong from his job as chief of the People’s Liberation Army in the region. But the attacks in Xinjiang have continued, if not intensified, in the past year.
In September, a series of bomb blasts killed 50 people in Luntai County, southwest of Xinjiang’s regional capital, Urumqi, according to state media.
That attack came five months after state media reported that terrorists engaged in two suicide car bombings that killed 31 people and injured more than 90 in Urumqi. That was the deadliest attack to date in Xinjiang, one that appeared aimed at striking fear in of Han Chinese, now a majority in Urumqi.






 
 
 PARIS — The man who was killed during a counterterrorism raid was 
 
 








... more








 
 
 FORT WORTH, Texas — When Amy found out around Christmas that she 
 
 








... more








 
 
 Trump talks of ‘riots’ — Donald Trump said Wednesday that riots could 
 
 








... more








 
 
 New analysis of DNA from a collection of bones found in Spain 
 
 








... more








 
 
 WASHINGTON — Earth got so hot last month that federal scientists struggled 
 
 








... more


Explore more of Central Oregon with a subscription to The Bulletin.