2013-07~12
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/police-kill-8-xinjiang-terrorist-attack

Police kill 8 in Xinjiang ‘terrorist attack’ | TODAYonline
BEIJING — Chinese police shot dead eight people during a “terrorist attack” in the western region of Xinjiang yesterday, the government said, raising the death toll from violent clashes there to at least 35 since November. Yesterday’s attack was the latest in a string of violent incidents in the ethnically-tense region.
The attack happened in Yarkand county, also known as Shache, close to the old Silk Road city of Kashgar in Xinjiang’s south, the regional government said in a statement on its news website (www.ts.cn).
“At around 6.30am, nine thugs carrying knives attacked a police station in Kashgar’s Yarkand county, throwing explosive devices and setting police cars on fire,” it said.
“The police took decisive measures, shooting dead eight and capturing one,” it added, labelling the incident a “violent terrorist attack” which was being investigated.
Xinjiang is home to about nine million Turkic-speaking, Muslim people known as Uighurs, some of whom resent what they see as oppressive treatment by the government. Many Uighurs chafe at restrictions on their culture, language and religion, though the government insists it grants them broad freedoms.
Beijing says it treats all minorities fairly and spends billions of dollars on development and improving living standards in Xinjiang. The region has been the scene of numerous incidents of unrest in recent years, which the government often blames on the separatist East Turkestan Islamic Movement, even though many experts and rights groups cast doubt on its existence as a cohesive group.
At least 91 people, including several police officers, have been killed in violence in Xinjiang since April, according to state media reports. This month, police shot and killed 14 people during a riot near Kashgar in which two policemen were also killed.
In a similar outburst of violence, at least nine civilians and two policemen were killed when a group of people armed with axes and knives attacked a police station, also near Kashgar, last month, state media has said.
China has previously blamed some of the violence in Xinjiang on Islamist militants plotting holy war. Since October, it has stepped up security in the province after a vehicle ploughed into tourists on the edge of Beijing’s Tiananmen Square, killing three people in the car and two bystanders. China said the attack was carried out by Islamist militants.
The latest attack showed the serious threat posed by separatism, extremism and terrorism, China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Qin Gang told reporters at a regular press briefing yesterday. “The Chinese government will strike hard against them in accordance with the law,” he said.