2013-07~12
http://www.dispatch.com/content/stories/national_world/2013/11/18/attack-on-police-station-in-china-leaves-11-dead.html

Attack on police station in China leaves 11 dead | The Columbus Dispatch
Enjoy the convenience of home delivery plus Digital D. Sign up for our BEST VALUE today!
Online? On the go? Enjoy unlimited premium dispatch.com content plus the E-Edition for computer and iPad.
Award-winning journalism conveniently delivered to your home. Choose the custom package best suited for you!
The E-Edition includes all of the news, comics, classifieds and advertisements of the newspaper.
And it's available to subscribers before 6 a.m. every day.
All current subscribers have full access to Digital D, which includes the E-Edition and
unlimited premium content on Dispatch.com, BuckeyeXtra.com, BlueJacketsXtra.com and
DispatchPolitics.com. 
Subscribe
today!
BEIJING — Nine assailants were shot and killed last night after they tried to storm a police
station in the restive western Chinese province of Xinjiang, the state-run Xinhua news agency and
Radio Free Asia said. Two police officers also died in the attack.
Details of the assault were sparse, but the news agency said the attackers were armed with
knives and axes. Calls to the authorities in Kashgar, about 100 miles from the police station, and
the nearby town of Bachu were not answered.
The violence at the Selibuya police station near Kashgar occurred more than two weeks after
Chinese authorities arrested five people from Xinjiang province who they said were involved in an
attack last month on two tourists in Tiananmen Square. The Chinese government has suggested the
suspects in the Beijing attack were Uighur separatists.
The Xinhua news agency did not identify the assailants in yesterday’s attack as Uighurs, an
ethnic minority concentrated in Xinjiang.
Radio Free Asia, which is financed by the U.S. government, reported that the shootout attracted
a large number of Uighur onlookers who were angry over what they described as the highhanded
actions of the police.
The deputy chief of the police station at Selibuya, Hesen Ablet, told Radio Free Asia that he
was summoned to assist, and when he got to the station, “there were already four or five bodies
lying on the ground.”
Ablet said that one of the two officers killed was an ethnic Uighur, according to Radio Free
Asia.
Xinjiang province, about 2,000 miles west of Beijing, is one of China’s most-restive areas; the
Uighur population lives in tense co-existence with the Han Chinese majority who have migrated
there. The Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking people who follow the Sunni branch of Islam.
In the episode at Tiananmen Square, a man identified by the Chinese authorities as Usmen Hasan,
an ethnic Uighur from Xinjiang province, drove into the two tourists with his car.
The Chinese government said that Uighur Islamists have allied with a terrorist group known as
the East Turkestan Islamist Movement, and the Chinese state media has suggested that the group was
involved in the Tiananmen attack.