2013-07~12
http://www.heraldscotland.com/news/world-news/police-make-arrests-after-china-crash.22559325

Police make arrests after China crash (From Herald Scotland)
We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience. By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies.
CHINESE police have detained five suspects after a vehicle burst into flames on Beijing's Tiananmen Square in what police called a terrorist attack, in which five people were killed.

 The SUV involved in the incident was driven by Usmen Hasan, a man whose name suggests he is an ethnic Uighur - Muslims from the far western region of Xinjiang, police said.


 His wife and mother were also with him in the car, along with devices filled with gasoline, knives and a flag with "religious extremist content" written on it, police said.


 The five people connected with the incident were arrested with help from the Xinjiang government. Police also seized jihadist flags and knives from where they were staying.


 Two tourists were also killed in Monday's incident and at least 38 people injured.


 Xinjiang is home to the Turkic-speaking Uighurs, many of whom chafe at China's controls on their religion and culture and there have been violent clashes there in the past.


 Rights groups say China exaggerates the threat to justify its harsh rule.

We moderate all comments on Herald Scotland on either a pre-moderated or post-moderated basis. If you're a relatively new user then your comments will be reviewed before publication and if we know you well and trust you then your comments will be subject to moderation only if other users or the moderators believe you've broken the rules
Moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours. Please be patient if your posts are not approved instantly.
Please note: Disqus comments are provided for information only. No new comments will be accepted
This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then please contact the editor here. If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here