2013-07~12
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/10542015/Chinese-police-kill-eight-terrorists-in-restive-Uighur-region.html

Chinese police kill eight 'terrorists' in restive Uighur region - Telegraph
Authorities in western China said on Monday that police fatally shot eight "terrorists" who had attacked them using knives and explosives in the latest in a string of violent incidents in the ethnically tense region.
The Xinjiang government news portal Tianshan Net said that the group of nine attacked officers and burned police cars in Shache county, which is overseen by the famed Silk Road city of Kashgar.
It was the latest in a series of attacks pointing to growing unrest in the large sprawling region of Xinjiang, home to a simmering rebellion against Chinese rule among parts of the native Muslim Uighur population who want more autonomy from Beijing. Recent clashes, including an attack on a police station last month, have left dozens of people dead.
A Xinjiang government press officer confirmed Monday's report but said he had no further information. He gave only his surname, Cao. Police reached by phone in Shache and Kashgar said they had no information about the incident.
The Chinese government typically calls such incidents terrorist attacks linked to radicals based overseas, although there is little evidence that they are carefully organised.

China ends reeducation through labour and loosens one child policy

Xinjiang is home to about 9 million Uighurs, who make up less than half of the population of Xinjiang, which they used to dominate. Many complain that they have been marginalised by policies favoring migrants from China's ethnic Han majority.
Beijing says it treats all minorities fairly and spends billions of dollars on development and improving living standards in Xinjiang.
Tianshan Net said the police took "resolute measures" by shooting the eight and arresting one, adding the case was under further investigation.
Sweden-based Uighur activist Dilxat Raxit said Uighurs were being shot to death "due to their discontent with China's policies."
"To label the protesters as terrorists and shoot them to death is a new way of suppressing the Uighurs following China's judicial reforms," he said, referring to recent moves to improve the country's party-controlled justice system.
As well as a number of deadly clashes in Xinjiang this year, an attack in October struck at the heart of Beijing. Three Uighurs drove a vehicle through crowds in front of iconic Tiananmen Gate, killing themselves and two tourists.

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
