2014-04~06
http://www.dailylife.com.au/world/china-executes-13-people-in-xinjiang-as-violence-grows-20140617-zsa2b.html

China executes 13 people in Xinjiang as violence grows
If half of all footballers attempt suicide, our community would search for solutions. So why ignore the plight of LGBTI teens?

And how to explain to my young kids that their Grandpa is gay.
For many women, breastfeeding isn't a choice. And those who want to "help mothers" first need to understand that.

Why the "special feminine qualities" approach to promoting the value of women in leadership roles won't work.

"The solution doesn't lie in convincing people that harassment is bad. People know that it is," writes Tegan Jones.

Roll up your sleeves and fill the kitchen with the irresistible smells of traditional Easter baking, says Adam Liaw.

 
 Hell might actually be other people – at least if you're really smart.

 


 
 Regional dining has made some big strides, but this remains the best regional dining route in Australia.

 


 
 Get it right in the food court at lunchtime and you'll be set for the rest of the day, writes Susie Burrell.

 


 
 From Italian espresso to Colombia's cafe con leche - here are the places that make the world's best types of coffee.

 


 
 Join the shelfie-sharing craze with these easy ways to up your home's shelf esteem.
 



 Let's stop neglecting the unique struggles of Aboriginal women
 



 How the 'meritocracy myth' keeps women away from power
 



 Why is my choice not to wear a bra still taboo?

 



 "I'm sick and tired of women being held responsible for the actions men choose to take."
 
 



 At every turn, Ms Dhu was failed by a state which imprisons impoverished Aboriginal people so willingly. 
 
 



 "Once you understand control is the precursor to family violence. You stop asking questions in the same way." 
 
 



 As writer Bim Adewunmi points out, race is not a Very Special Episode issue. It's a fact of life. 
 
 



 It's callous to expect people to work their entire lives, only to be shunted away in old age. But there is another way.

 
 



 Home is where the heart is - but a broken heart is in even more need of a home.
 
 



 Aziz Ansari inspired me to ask my parents about their lives,.
 
 



 Do you really want to be the sort of parent who prioritises safety and comfort over your universal obligation to look hot?
 
 


 
 Superannuation might sound dull and impenetrable – and unnecessary and irrelevant if you are under 40 – but let me tell you, there are lots of reasons to love it.
 

12 awesome women who have taken a stand against sexist laws
12 awesome women who have taken a stand against sexist laws
Pussy Riot's latest music video Chaika takes a satirical look at corruption in Vladimir Putin's Russia. 01:06
Earth, Wind and Fire's Maurice White dead at 74 (00:29)

 
 Pro-life supporters have been banned from protesting within 50 metres of Canberra's abortion clinics.

 


 
 It couldn't be more timely for the marriage equality movement: Australian stars Guy Pearce and Rachel Griffiths will join Mary-Louise Parker as leads in a new gay-rights TV show called When We Rise.
 


 
 It was a lot more than 20 per cent of the bill.

 


 
 "Your new catalogue needs to be recognised as a true game changer when it comes to diversity."
 


 
 The book will cover Grace's musical life in punk band Against Me! and her struggle with gender dysphoria.
 


 
 Carter Smith who stopped the show in its tracks when debate shifted to Safe Schools and the fate of a program which, in his words as a queer student, saves kids from self-harm and suicide.

 


 
 Guests at the event included Kate Hudson, Matthew McConaughey, Robert Downey, Jr, Courteney Cox, Tobey Maguire, Jason Bateman, and Jennifer Aniston.
 


 
 "You can be self-deprecating as long as everybody knows you're doing that. But just ripping yourself down is not funny."

 


 
 The TV host has taken aim at one of Trump's signature policy proposals: a border wall.
 


 
 Because in politics in Australia in 2016 there are few worse things you can be called than 'less of a man'.

 


 
 Obviously, Serena Williams wasn't going to let the comments slide: "We, as women, have come a long way. We shouldn't have to drop to our knees at any point."

 


 
 Edgy to elegant, multicoloured to monochrome, the new season shines with fresh shapes and shades. Here are our picks.
 
