2014-04~06
http://www.designntrend.com/articles/15013/20140605/prehistoric-fossilized-eggs-provide-insight-on-ancient-flying-reptiles.htm

Prehistoric Fossilized Eggs Provide Insight On Ancient Flying Reptiles : SCIENCE : Design & Trend
A prehistoric fossil find in China from 120 million years ago - is providing unique insight into pterosaurs, the flying reptiles that lived alongside the dinosaurs, Reuters reports. 
Until Thursday, only four pterosaur eggs had ever been found, and all were flattened during the process of fossilization, writes Reuters.
But Chinese scientists said on Thursday they had unearthed five pterosaur eggs preserved in three dimensions at a site in northwestern China. 
The site also contained at least 40 adult individuals of a newly identified species living near a freshwater lake.  
"This is definitely the most important pterosaur site ever found," paleontologist Zhonghe Zhou, director of the Chinese Academy of Sciences' Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, told Reuters.
The creature, Hamipterus tianshanensis, had a crest atop its elongated skull, pointy teeth for catching fish and a wingspan of more than 11 feet (3.5 meters).
The five oblong eggs were "pliable" with a thin, hard outer layer marked by "cracking and crazing" covering a thick membrane inner layer, making them resemble the soft eggs of some modern snakes and lizards, paleontologist Xiaolin Wang, another of the researchers, told Reuters.
"They are the best-preserved pterosaur eggs ever found," Wang told Reuters. 
According to Wang, the site is remarkable for what it reveals about how pterosaurs lived.
At least 40 male and female individuals have been identified, and there may be hundreds in all, Wang told Reuters.
The site indicates that pterosaurs lived in large colonies.  In this colony, which nested near the lake, the pterosaurs buried their eggs in moist sand to prevent them from becoming desiccate, Wang told Reuters.   
"One of the significant (aspects) of this discovery - hundreds of individuals and eggs together from one site - is that it confirmed that pterosaurs were gregarious, and the population size is surprisingly large," Zhou told Reuters.
The fossils also illustrate physical differences in pterosaurs that varied depending on gender. Researchers have found that males possessed distinctly larger head crests when compared with females. 
"In Hamipterus, size, shape and robustness are decided by the gender," Wang told Reuters, adding that this contradicts a previous notion that "sexual dimorphism in pterosaurs was only reflected in the absence or presence of the crests."
The site, discovered in Xinjiang province in 2005, was preserved probably after the Cretaceous period creatures perished together in a large storm, Zhou told Reuters.
Pterosaurs were Earth's first flying vertebrates - birds and bats appeared on Earth much later.
They lived about 220 million years ago to 65 million years ago, when they were destroyed in the aftermath of the asteroid that also killed the dinosaurs.
Knowledge about pterosaurs has been vague, as their fragile skeletons did not fossilize well - making specimens rare.  Little has been known about their behavior.
"I have been truly amazed by the abundance of bones and the number of eggs as well the great potential of more discoveries from the site," Zhou told Reuters.
The genus name, Hamipterus, means "Hami wing," after nearby Hami City.
The species name, tianshanensis, refers to Tian Shan mountains, which are located near the site.