2014-04~06
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/may/01/chinese-leader-terrorism-railway-attack

Chinese leader pledges action on terrorism after deadly railway attack | World news | The Guardian


Thursday 1 May 2014 03.48 EDT


Last modified on Saturday 30 January 2016 20.22 EST


The Chinese president, Xi Jinping, has demanded "decisive actions" against terrorism after an attack at a railway station in the far-west minority region of Xinjiang left three people dead and 79 injured.
The bloodshed came as Xi wrapped up a four-day visit to the area, which has witnessed rising violence against civilians and authorities blamed on radical Islamists and separatists.
The official Xinhua news agency quoted witnesses as saying at least two blasts went off at the south station in the regional capital, Urumqi, on Wednesday night, while a large group of knife-wielding attackers pursued passengers.
"The battle to combat violence and terrorism will not allow even a moment of slackness, and decisive actions must be taken to resolutely suppress the terrorists' rampant momentum," Xi said in comments published on the front page of official newspapers on Thursday and broadcast on state television.
There was no immediate word on arrests and it was unclear whether Xi was still in the region at the time of the attack. Information about events in the area 1,550 miles west of Beijing is tightly controlled and it was difficult to immediately verify any details.
"At the moment, it is acknowledged to be a terrorist attack. What is yet to be discovered is who did this and for what purpose under whose instigation," Xinhua said in a report.
Train service was suspended for about two hours, it said. It added that security was tightened at all transport hubs in the city, which has a mainly Han Chinese population who are distinct from Xinjiang's native Turkic Muslim Uighur ethnic group.
A woman working at a convenience store near the train station said she heard a loud explosion shortly after 7pm. "The whole area now has been cordoned off by police and military police," said the woman, who spoke by telephone and refused to give her name.
Photos circulating briefly on Chinese social media sites showed scattered luggage near the station's exit and a heavy presence of armed men. Xinhua said the blast was centred on some luggage left on the ground between the station's exit and a bus stop.
Tensions between Chinese and Uighurs have been simmering for years in Xinjiang, particularly since riots in 2009 in Urumqi left nearly 200 people dead. Beijing blames the violence on overseas instigators, but has offered little evidence.
Government critics say restrictive and discriminatory policies and practices have alienated the Uighurs. They say Han people have flooded Xinjiang and benefited from its economic growth while Uighurs have felt excluded.
China has smothered Xinjiang with additional security and imposed additional restrictions on Uighur travel rights, culture and religious practices. Uighur activists say this is exacerbating the resentments driving the violence.
"The Urumqi explosion again proves that forceful repression is not a solution to the problem," said Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the German-based World Uyghur Congress.
During his visit to the region, Xi urged government officials to maintain social stability, promote growth, improve living standards and strengthen ethnic unity.
Xi's visit dominated state broadcaster CCTV's evening news broadcast on Wednesday. It showed him shaking hands with police in helmets and bulletproof vests and inspecting shields and weapons used to quell riots.
"Local police stations are the fists and the daggers. We must work hard at the grass-roots level of the police stations," Xi said. "We must take care of our front-line offices. You need to protect yourselves and make achievements at tasks such as better serving the people in the future and safeguarding social stability."
Xi told officials that the long-term stability of Xinjiang was vital to the whole country's reform, development and stability, Xinhua reported.
Incident in Guangzhou is third high-profile attack at a Chinese train station in a little more than two months