2014-04~06
http://english.cri.cn/7146/2014/05/02/2361s824661.htm

Two Suspects, One Citizen Killed in Xinjiang Attack
Life is returning to normal in Xinjiang's capital Urumqi following Wednesday evening's deadly terrorist attack which left 3-dead, including the two attackers.
Reporter: An investigation shows that one of the two suspects was Sedirdin Sawut, a 39-year-old man from Xayar County, Aksu in southern Xinjiang.
Information on the other suspect who died has not been disclosed yet.
Police say the two have long been involved in religious extremism.
Wednesday's attack took place at the exit of Urumqi south railway station, as the two stabbed people with knives and set off explosives.
The train station, the largest one in the city, suspended service after the attack but has now returned to normal operation.
Inside the station, tourists and locals condemned the attack. However, they did not give up their travel plans on Thursday, the first day of the three-day Labor Day Holiday.
"I think we shouldn't let those things affect the good overall situation. I think we shouldn't be intimidated. So, here we were here this morning. I think everything is fine here."
After the explosions, Chinese President Xi Jinping urged "decisive actions" against violent terrorist attacks.
The attack happened shortly after the president wrapped up his inspection tour in the region earlier this week.
Meanwhile on Thursday, China's Foreign Ministry released a new statement, reiterating the country's stance in fighting against terrorism.
Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang says China always firmly opposes terrorism in any form and terrorist acts conducted or backed by any person under any name.
The spokesman made the remark while refuting China-related content in a report on terrorism issued by the U.S. State Department.
The report says China's cooperation in 2013 with the United States on counter-terrorism issues "remained marginal."
Qin Gang says to make irresponsible remarks toward other countries and pursue double standards on the cause will not help international cooperation.
The United States has also issued a statement on Thursday, denouncing the attack in Xinjiang.
State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said the blast "appears to be an act of terrorism that targeted random members of the public."
She added that the United States "condemns the horrific and despicable acts of violence against innocent civilians" at the train station.
Why is Russia ordering the partial retreat of its forces from Syria now?
How can the anti-corruption campaign be better advanced by the judicial powers?