2014-04~06
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2014/04/29/shades-of-george-w-bush-in-xi-jinpings-anti-terror-campaign/

Shades of George W. Bush in Xi Jinping’s Anti-Terror Campaign - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
Xi Jinping is taking a page out of George W. Bush’s playbook.
China’s president has signaled aggressively in recent weeks that a central element of his leadership will be fighting those the government views as terrorists.
The government must “make terrorists like rats scurrying across a street, with everybody shouting “beat them!” the official Xinhua news agency quoted Mr. Xi as saying ahead of a recent trip to the at-times turbulent city of Kashgar.
The city is located in the far western region of Xinjiang, which borders Pakistan and other Central Asian nations. The province has seen widespread interethnic violence in recent years between ethnic Uighurs who call Xinjiang home and Han Chinese who largely control the government and police and who make up a vast majority of China’s citizens.
“The more you sweat in peace time, the less you bleed in war,” Mr. Xi said during his visit, according to a description of the trip posted to the Weibo account of the official Xinhua news agency.
During his trip, he urged military leaders and special police forces to—in essence—be ready for battle, should it come.
A recent uptick in violence emanating from the region is troubling for China’s leadership, particularly as it appears to be spreading beyond Xinjiang’s border. In March, assailants armed with knives attacked a train station in the southern city of Kunming, leaving more than 30 dead. The government later described the attackers as separatists from Xinjiang. 
Since then, Mr.  Xi has worked hard to stress China’s anti-terrorism efforts. In the past two months alone, Mr. Xi has mentioned anti-terrorism in public remarks 15 times, according to the website of the Communist Party’s People’s Daily newspaper. Earlier this month, Mr. Xi paid a visit to an anti-terrorism training institute, sparking wide coverage in official media.
The Chinese government says growing violence in the region stems from separatists who want to divide Xinjiang from the rest of China and religious extremists, including those with ties to overseas terror groups. But Uighurs in Xinjiang and overseas activists groups say the issue is more complicated and stems partly from what many view as economic discrimination against ethnic Uighurs.
Part of the challenge is linguistic: Many Uighurs today speak minimal Chinese, preferring instead to communicate in Uighur, a Turkic language. During his trip to Xinjiang, Mr. Xi urged improve the teaching of Mandarin Chinese to non-Han students as a way to help ethnic Uighurs and others more easily find jobs, and more importantly, he said, “to promote cooperation among ethnic groups.”
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

The Uighurs in and of themselves are not naturally, historically organized criminals like the pickpocket gangs in urban centers. The Uighurs are okay and the purity of their religious devotion is commendable and something that a traditional Chinese can sense the echo in - it's just another form of being good and being loyal to that.
Whatever is happening out there - I think the Chinese government is hunting down a foreign enemy. Divisive opinions don't help.
Know this - from living amongst us - in China - in America - there is not going to be a longterm Han Chinese grudge against Tibetans and Uighurs. You can tell what we are not for all our shortcomings. Our worst characteristic is not our corruption but the hanjian element in our midst who does not care about who the victims are, does not care about right and wrong.
The rest of us care - and Tibetans and Uighurs are safe with us - this will be sorted out. No matter what happens this year or in the next few years, you don't have to be worried.
Some of us will only be scared and mind that Han Chinese are hated for being Han Chinese when there is really nothing that can be done about either side of any violence. It's not important if all the attacks are coming against government and not by the government except as responses.
Just know that you just have to be yourself and we will see you for who you really are. No matter what. Don't worry about Chinese feelings towards you in the wake of the attacks. It's going to work out. China is hunting someone else.
Westerners may think its cute to look through their rainbow prism...but in reality racial and religious exceptionalism probably is at work here and conventional thoughts may not work. Chinese exceptionalism is more portent ...5000 yrs history and look they have been in Sinkiang since the Han Dynasty times. In imperial times tribes who don't submit would be destroyed. History in the last 200+yrs A mongol tribe had to petitioned and allowed to resettle In Sinkiang by Emperor Chienglong...is the communist Chinese government adopting imperial methods? Far from it ...Uighurs and Tibetan travel all over China with apparent ease...how would you explain they can RAM and blow up a car in Tian Ann Men, or slaughter 30+innocent bystanders in far flung kunming train stations...Uighurs look more like middle easterners and will standout in a crowd of Han Chinese or Easterners...and I have seen some photos posted online of the recent shooting by Vietnamese borderguards reporting a group of Uighurs, some of the women wears veils if there are outright han Chinese racism they won't have got out of kashgar. Westerners can emphatic
Blame it on uighurs exceptionalism...a conquered nation or race should submit or else be prepared to fight a thousand years war in which case it will be ready to die or kill...I think most western do not think along that line as with racial and religious exceptionalism mixed brew is very toxic...conventional reasonings may not work. Uighurs are everywhere in China, more often you will find them selling roadside kebab...the Chinese constitutions actually give more affirmative rights to minorities including Uighurs and Tibetans. There are other Muslims ethnic group living in Sinkiang and all over China, they have not cause do
The only difference is that George W is NOT a war criminal along with Dicky C. by definition and America's exceptionalism. George and Dick were just bloody thirsty...
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
