2014-04~06
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/us-terrorism-report-wrong-irresponsible-beijing

US terrorism report wrong, irresponsible: Beijing | TODAYonline
BEIJING — Days after a deadly attack in the western region of Xinjiang, China has criticised the United States State Department’s annual terrorism report, saying it wrongly plays down China’s counter-terrorism efforts and accusing the US of holding double standards on terrorist assaults in China.
The Chinese state news media and some commentators have been critical of the way the US government and the foreign news media have described attacks on its soil, saying they have been too hesitant to label such events as terrorism.
The issue was particularly pronounced after a vehicle carrying three people crashed and ignited near Tiananmen Square in Beijing last October, killing the occupants, two tourists and injuring 40 people. The three people were ethnic Uighurs, the mostly Muslim, Turkic-speaking people native to Xinjiang, and the authorities said they were members of a family who had been recruited by Islamic extremists to carry out a suicide attack.
In the 2013 Country Reports on Terrorism released on Wednesday, the State Department listed the Tiananmen attack under the heading “2013 Terrorist Incidents”. It also said the details of that incident lacked outside verification and that there was “no independent evidence” of the Chinese government’s assertion that it was directed by the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which advocates Xinjiang independence.
The report said: “Chinese authorities labelled several incidents of violence involving members of the Uighur minority as acts of terrorism. In general, the Chinese authorities did not provide detailed evidence of terrorist involvement, and restricted the ability of journalists and international observers to independently verify official media accounts.”
It also noted that while China has held counter-terrorism exercises with states including Belarus, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Russia, cooperation with the US has “remained marginal, with little reciprocity in information exchanges”.
Mr Qin Gang, the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, criticised that assessment. “China is a victim of terrorism and has always firmly opposed any form of terrorism and acts of terrorism carried out or backed by any person under any name,” Mr Qin said in a statement posted on the ministry’s website.
Mr Qin’s comments raised previous concerns that the US views attacks in China through a different lens. He said that China carried out its campaign against terrorism in a legal manner and sought to address the root causes of terrorism.
“On the question of anti-terrorism, making irresponsible remarks towards other countries and holding ‘double standards’ will not help international cooperation,” he said.
The State Department labelled an attack by knife-wielding assailants at a train station in Kunming in March that killed 29 people as terrorism, but only after prodding by a Chinese journalist at a news conference.