2014-04~06
http://www.gulf-times.com/china/249/details/393393/security-tightened-in-restive-xinjiang

Security tightened in restive Xinjiang
Agencies/UrumqiSecurity was tight yesterday in Urumqi, the capital of China’s Xinjiang, two days after the volatile Muslim Uighur homeland suffered its bloodiest attack in years, leaving 43 people dead, including four assailants. Armed paramilitary police were on patrol at many locations across the city, after attackers in two vehicles ploughed into shoppers and traders and threw explosives at a street market Thursday. At North Park Street, the scene of the attack, groups of four or five armed paramilitary police stood about ten metres apart holding rifles. Meanwhile patrols of police marched up and down the road with riot shields. The area would have previously seen scores of traders selling groceries and fruit on wooden trailers and from cardboard boxes. However, the street market has been closed since Thursday’s bloody attack and traffic was not allowed through yesterday. Police were stopping journalists at the scene, taking details and warning against taking pictures. “It (the situation) is very good today,” a policewoman told AFP, pointing to the bustling shops along the road. At a nearby supermarket, a trader said the armed presence was welcome. “We have got back to normal very quickly,” said the man, who did not give his name. “We are not worried anymore.” State media said on Friday night that Xinjiang had launched a “one-year campaign against terrorist violence”, as details of the suspects involved with the attack were released. Four of them died at the scene, Xinhua news agency said, while another was arrested in Bayingolin, a vast prefecture south of Urumqi. The men “took part in a terrorist attack on Thursday that killed 39 innocent people and injured another 94,” Xinhua said, making clear that the suspects were not included in the death toll figure. The one-year campaign against terrorists and religious extremist groups would target “gun and explosive manufacturing dens and terrorist training camps,” state media said. It was launched as more than 1,000 military personnel and police staged a drill through the streets of Urumqi Friday in a defiant show of force. Beijing described the market attack as the latest “severe terrorist incident” to hit the far western region. Critics of China’s policies in Xinjiang say that tensions in the region are driven by cultural oppression, intrusive security measures and immigration by majority Han Chinese which have led to decades of discrimination and economic inequality. Meanwhile, authorities in charge of Beijing’s underground rail network said yesterday they would boost security checks at stations in response to the latest attacks, state media reported. A measure launched in January which involves passengers at six stations near Tiananmen Square being required to go through security checks has been extended to a further three stations, the Xinhua report said, without identifying which stations. Xinhua reported police have identified five suspects who carried out the suicide bombing.Police have identified the suspects as Nurahmat Ablipiz, Memet Memtimin, Raghimjan Memet, Memtimin Mahmat and Ablet Abdukadir, Xinhua said late on Friday. They all appear to be Uighur, judging by their names. The five, influenced by religious extremism, took part in illegal religious activities, watched and listened to terrorist violence video and audio materials, the report said citing the police. The five suspects formed a five-member terrorist gang at the end of 2013 and made explosive devices and chose the target for their attack, Xinhua said. The attackers ploughed two vehicles into an open market in Urumqi and hurled explosives. Many of the 94 wounded were elderly shoppers, according to witnesses. No group has claimed responsibility for Thursday’s attack.
Rare oval diamond expected to fetch $35mn in Hong Kong sale