2014-04~06
http://www.heraldscotland.com/news/world-news/suicide-bomb-attack-on-train-station.24113778

Suicide bomb attack on train station (From Herald Scotland)
We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience. By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies.
TWO religious extremists carried out a terror attack at a train station in China by detonating explosives in an apparent suicide bombing.

 The strike in the regional capital of Urumqi, in the far-western Xinjiang region, also killed one other person and wounded 79.


 It was the third high-profile attack in seven months blamed on Xinjiang extremists that targeted civilians. These attacks, two of them outside the region, have marked a departure from a previous pattern of targeting local authorities.


 Police said they had identified two suspects with a history of religious extremism, including a 39-year-old man from southern Xinjiang. They did not explicitly say the attack was a suicide bombing, but said the two men detonated explosives at a train station exit and both died on the spot.


 Chinese president Xi Jinping has demanded "decisive" action against terrorism after the attacks.

We moderate all comments on Herald Scotland on either a pre-moderated or post-moderated basis. If you're a relatively new user then your comments will be reviewed before publication and if we know you well and trust you then your comments will be subject to moderation only if other users or the moderators believe you've broken the rules
Moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours. Please be patient if your posts are not approved instantly.
Please note: Disqus comments are provided for information only. No new comments will be accepted
This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then please contact the editor here. If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here