2014-04~06
http://www.cfr.org/about/newsletters/archive/newsletter/n1916

Council on Foreign Relations - Daily News Brief - May 22, 2014
Return to CFR.org   |   Subscribe to the Daily News Brief
Thirty-one people were reported killed and more than ninety injured in an attack in Urumqi, the capital of China's western Xinjiang province, on Thursday morning, as assailants ploughed through metal barriers into a crowded market and set off explosives (SCMP). The attack is the bloodiest in recent history but comes on the heels of knife and bomb attacks that Beijing blames on separatists among the Uighur ethnic minority. Downtown Urumqi, where Thursday's attack took place, is dominated by China's ethnic Han majority, and tensions have simmered since riots in 2009. Uighur activists and rights groups say that this demographic trend, in combination with heavy-handed policing, have driven the violence (WSJ). President Xi Jinping, in a rare visit at the end of last month, vowed a sustained effort to crush terrorists. Information about events in the area, which is 1,550 miles west of Beijing, is tightly controlled by the state (BBC).
"For decades, Uyghurs have lacked a basic sense of belonging, and there has been a deficit of trust with the majority Han ethnic group. While Chinese officials work hard to promote ethnic unity and praise Uyghurs, on the internet Uyghurs are usually targets for criticism, widespread enough to be seen by every Chinese netizen. As a result, Uyghurs have two faces in China: one peaceful and good, the other terrifying," writes Mu Chunshan in the Diplomat.
"Efforts to make nice with the locals are, of course, part of a broader plan to stabilize the region, one that relies on a steely resolve to project Communist Party power thousands of miles west of the capital Beijing, or what Xi has called a 'strike first' strategy aimed at would-be splittists. The link between the two approaches was sharply evident in an April 30 editorial in party mouthpiece Global Times titled in part, 'Let's bravely go to Xinjiang.' Xinjiang lies at the 'front line' of counter-terrorism, reasoned the piece, published before the [April 30] bombing. In order to stamp out terrorism, it continued, 'average people' had to 'make their own contribution' by treating Xinjiang as a 'normal place,' and traveling there for business and leisure," writes David Wertime in Tea Leaf Nation.
"The [May 6] Guangzhou attack coincided with the publication of a review of China's security environment, written by Chinese academics with close government ties. It says that 'under the influence of international terrorist activities', terrorism in China has recently entered an 'active period.' It notes that attacks are spreading beyond the borders of Xinjiang into the rest of China (beginning with a car attack in Beijing's Tiananmen Square last October that killed five people, including the car's occupants). The report speculates that militants are being attracted by weaker counterterrorism measures outside Xinjiang, as well as by greater opportunities for publicity," writes the Economist.
Army chief General Prayuth Chan-ocha announced in a television broadcast on Thursday that he was taking control of the government in a coup after reconciliation talks between the government and antigovernment protestors ended inconclusively. The move comes two days after the imposition of martial law (Reuters).
CFR's Joshua Kurlantzick writes that for all Prayuth's protestations, the army's imposition of martial law constituted the coup.
NORTH KOREA: North Korea fired two artillery shells near a South Korean warship in contested waters, prompting South Korea to fire back in the latest sign of escalating tensions (Yonhap).
Some forty government and security officials remained besieged by the Taliban in the northern Badakhshan province as of Wednesday night, prompting electoral officials to warn that the June runoff vote for the presidency could be impossible to conduct there (TOLO). A provincial deputy governor said requests for military assistance from the U.S.-led coalition were turned down (NYT).
SOUTH ASIA: A report released by the watchdog organization Transparency International on Thursday found that corruption-fighting agencies in six South Asian countries lack the capacity and independence to root out graft (al-Jazeera).
The Security Council is scheduled to vote Thursday on referring the civil war in Syria to the International Criminal Court for investigation and prosecution of war crimes. More than fifty countries have voiced support for the resolution, but Russian ambassador Vitaly Churkin promised to veto the measure, calling it "a publicity stunt" (NYT). Meanwhile, government forces on Thursday reportedly broke a year-long rebel siege of an Aleppo prison (Daily Star).
IRAN: Tehran and the UN nuclear watchdog IAEA reported progress on Wednesday in a process seen as critical to efforts of major world powers to reach a nuclear pact (WSJ).
Expert George Perkovich assesses the likelihood of a deal in this CFR interview.
Nigerian special forces have sighted the more than 250 abducted Chibok schoolgirls spread among three camps operated by Boko Haram, Nigerian military and government officials said (Premium Times). On Wednesday, the White House announced the deployment of eighty U.S. troops to Chad to assist Nigeria with intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (WaPo) to locate the girls.
CFR's John Campbell discusses Nigeria's democratic transition in Pathways to Freedom.
MALAWI: President Joyce Banda on Thursday alleged "serious irregularities" in this week's presidential election and called for a manual audit of the vote tally. Banda is running for reelection in a tightly contested race (AFP).
Four days of voting in European parliamentary elections kicked off Thursday with Britain and the Netherlands, the first of the EU's twenty-eight member-states to vote. Populist right-wing, euroskeptic parties are expected to make major gains (France24).
UKRAINE: Casualties mounted in eastern Ukraine ahead of Sunday's national elections, with eight Ukrainian troops killed at a military checkpoint near Donetsk, and the AP reporting eleven bodies seen at another checkpoint (RFE/RL).
U.S. secretary of state John Kerry warned Venezuela on Wednesday of potential U.S. sanctions if reconciliation between President Nicolas Maduro and the opposition does not move forward, saying there has been a "total failure by the government" to act in good faith (El Universal). Kerry made his remarks in his first visit to Mexico as secretary of state (WaPo).
CUBA: A digital newspaper produced by Yoani Sánchez was hacked after its launch on Wednesday morning (Miami Herald), redirecting readers to a webpage critical of the dissident blogger.
Lynn St. Amour, CFR's Adam Segal, and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Sepulveda discuss Internet governance.
Council on Foreign Relations — 58 East 68th Street — New York, NY 10065
 CFR does not share email addresses with third parties.