2014-04~06
http://www.dispatch.com/content/stories/national_world/2014/05/22/0522-Marketplace-bombing-in-western-China.html

31 killed in attack on market in Uighur area | The Columbus Dispatch
Enjoy the convenience of home delivery plus Digital D. Sign up for our BEST VALUE today!
Online? On the go? Enjoy unlimited premium dispatch.com content plus the E-Edition for computer and iPad.
Award-winning journalism conveniently delivered to your home. Choose the custom package best suited for you!
Already a subscriber?
Enroll in EZPay and get a free gift! 
Enroll now.
The E-Edition includes all of the news, comics, classifieds and advertisements of the newspaper.
And it's available to subscribers before 6 a.m. every day.
All current subscribers have full access to Digital D, which includes the E-Edition and
unlimited premium content on Dispatch.com, BuckeyeXtra.com, BlueJacketsXtra.com and
DispatchPolitics.com. 
Subscribe
today!
URUMQI, China — Assailants driving two SUVs and tossing explosive devices plowed through a
crowded vegetable market yesterday in the regional capital of China’s far-west Xinjiang province,
killing 31 people and injuring 94.
It was the deadliest attack in Urumqi since ethnic bloodletting five years ago claimed hundreds
of lives.
The incident is the latest in a spate of violence across China that the authorities have blamed
on Islamic extremists. It highlights the challenge to Beijing in the vast borderlands that are home
to China’s ethnic Uighurs, the Turkic-speaking, predominantly Muslim minority who increasingly
object to the government’s policies.
President Xi Jinping “pledged to severely punish terrorists and spare no efforts in maintaining
stability,” the state-run Xinhua news service reported.
According to witnesses and state media reports, the vehicles crashed through metal barriers at
an open-air market in Urumqi’s Shayibake district at 7:50 a.m., striking shoppers as the assailants
lobbed explosive devices. Witnesses said the vehicles appeared to come from opposite ends of the
street, and the drivers sought to kill as many people as possible, running over several victims
more than once.
According to a police bulletin released late yesterday, investigators are hunting for two
Uighur men in their late 20s who reportedly escaped during the chaos and were later seen on a
public bus.
Although no one had claimed responsibility for the attack, previous incidents have been blamed
on Islamic extremists who the government says are affiliated with militant groups outside
China.
Many Uighurs complain of heavy-handed policies that they say restrict religious practices and
favor the Mandarin language over Uighur in schools and employment. The central government disputes
that.