2014-04~06
http://ajw.asahi.com/article/asia/china/AJ201405040022

One suspect behind Urumqi station blasts said to be driven by poverty - AJW by The Asahi Shimbun
XINJIANG UIGHUR AUTONOMOUS REGION, China--One of the two apparent suicide bombers who Chinese authorities say killed one other person and injured about 80 people at a train station here became disgruntled by the difficult life his family was forced to endure, according to acquaintances.
Chinese authorities said Sedierding Shawuti, 39, and another man were responsible for the deadly blasts at the Urumqi South Railway Station in Urumqi, the capital of the western region, on April 30. The two suspects, who police said were ethnic Uighurs, died on the spot.
The authorities released the two men's photos on May 3 and solicited information from the public about their behavior before the attacks. They offered a reward of 100,000 yuan (about 1.6 million yen, or $15,500).
Sedierding's parents’ home was situated in an impoverished village in Shaya county, about 500 kilometers southwest of Urumqi. The autonomous region has experienced ethnic strife for the past several years. Uighurs, who are mainly Muslims, have been angered at the growing economic disparity between them and the minority Han Chinese, as well as religious restrictions imposed by Beijing.
Sedierding, a carpenter, was the third oldest of four brothers of the family, according to a 50-year-old male carpenter acquaintance. Their parents passed away when they were young, forcing them to struggle to make a living.
Sedierding’s younger brother was serving a prison term for a crime Sedierding contended he did not commit.
He complained that although his brother was suffering from an eye disease, sufficient medical treatment was not provided.
Sedierding, a divorced man, left his parents’ home four years ago after quitting his carpenter's job. He did not tell his carpenter acquaintance why he was leaving or where he was going.
Citing footage from surveillance cameras, local media reported on May 3 that the explosions occurred four seconds after the two suspects burst into crowds at the station.
The carpenter said it is difficult to believe Sedierding carried out the indiscriminate attack. The man said Sedierding is a devout Muslim who does not drink or smoke.
The blasts, taking place during President Xi Jinping’s visit to the region, have shaken the top Chinese leadership. They came on top of two other deadly attacks in the past seven months that Chinese authorities blame on Xinjiang extremists outside the region, at a train station in Kunming in March and in Beijing in October when a vehicle rammed a crowd at Tiananmen Square.
The authorities appear eager to bring a quick end to the latest incident by promptly declaring that the two suspects committed the crime. But they are continuing their investigation to identify possible collaborators.
Apart from the two suspects, Urumqi police authorities have placed two ethnic Uighurs on the wanted list on suspicion of being involved in the production of explosives.
The home of the family of one of the apparent suicide bombers is located in a village in Shaya county in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, China. Police officers are on the alert in and around the home on May 3 after the bombings took place at a train station in Urumqi in the region on April 30. (Koichiro Ishida)
China says little to cheer in improved ties with 'two-faced' Japan
BEIJING--China sees little reason for optimism that relations with Japan will improve, China's Foreign Minister said on Tuesday, accusing "two-faced" Tokyo of constantly seeking to make trouble.
BEIJING--China is planning to construct a 126-kilometer undersea tunnel to create a high-speed rail link between the mainland and Taiwan.
Chinese tycoon and government critic silenced as microblog account closed
BEIJING--Chinese real estate tycoon Ren Zhiqiang’s Weibo microblog account was shut down on the orders of the Chinese government on Feb. 28 after he used it to criticize the state-run media’s policies.
Role as China's first lady silences voice of popular singer
BEIJING--In China in the early 1980s, singer Peng Liyuan became a household name.
China's Xi sets up five new 'battle zones' in military reform push
BEIJING--China on Monday inaugurated the military's five new "battle zones," the Defense Ministry said, the latest step in President Xi Jinping's efforts to reform the country's armed forces.
Copyright The Asahi Shimbun Company. All rights reserved. No reproduction or republication without written permission.