2014-04~06
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2014/05/22/Violent-terrorist-incident-in-Chinese-market-kills-31-people/3771400759322/

'Violent terrorist incident' in Chinese market kills 31 people [VIDEO] - UPI.com
BEIJING, May 22 (UPI) -- Attackers drove two explosives-laden cars through a market in Urumqi, capital of China's restive western Xinjiang region, leaving 31 people dead and 94 injured.
The attackers also threw explosives from the car as they plowed through shoppers early Thursday morning. The market was crowded with senior citizens who had just finished their morning exercises and were eating breakfast at the market.
The Ministry of Public Security has called the attack a "violent terrorist incident."
The region is home to the Muslim Uighur minority, who have had a history of tensions with the Han Chinese. While authorities have not discussed the ethnicity of the attackers, witnesses at the scene have said that they were Uighurs. Witnesses also say that the cars had no number plates, but had two small black flags carrying writing in the local Uighur language.
According to the Xinhua news agency, Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged to severely punish the "terrorists" and spare no efforts in restoring normalcy in the region.
"At close to 8 this morning, there were multiple explosions at the morning market near the Cultural Palace in Urumqi," a user called Paike Luotuoci posted on the Chinese microblogging service Sina Weibo. "I was less than 100 meters from the scene and I could see flames, heavy smoke. There were vehicles and goods burning. Vendors left their goods behind and fled."
"I saw flames and heavy smoke as vehicles and goods were on fire while vendors escaped leaving their goods behind," another witness wrote online, who claims he was less than 100 yards from the scene.
Urumqi and the region have seen their fair share of ethnic violence as Uighur separatists complain about Chinese restrictions on the Uighurs' religion, language and freedom of movement. China reestablished control of the region in 1949 after crushing the short-lived Uighur state of East Turkestan. Since then there has been an influx of Han Chinese into the region, which the Uighurs fear could impede their way of life and culture.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.