2014-04~06
https://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2014/05/24/violence-in-urumqi-hurts-bazaar-business/

Violence in Urumqi Hurts Bazaar Business - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
The Grand Bazaar in Urumqi has been a tourist draw for a decade—since it opened in a new plaza meant to evoke the historic caravan-trade culture of Central Asia. But stall owners say fewer tourists are showing up to buy colorful headscarves, knives and other trinkets since a recent uptick in violent attacks in the city and elsewhere in China’s westernmost region of Xinjiang.
“The biggest issue is that business isn’t as good. A lot of people are concerned about the attacks, and many people are getting hurt,” said Ma Ziding, a 35-year-old pocketknife seller.
A mixture of China’s majority Han Chinese and Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking, mainly Muslim ethnic group, trickled into the outdoor plaza Saturday morning to shop or take photos against the backdrop of a massive tower and mosque.
“A lot of customers don’t dare come,” said a 50-year-old Chinese man who gave his last name as Li. Mr. Li, whose shop sells trinkets, scarves and cigarettes, said foot traffic in the indoor bazaar has fallen by at least 90% this year. “There were so many people here last year that you couldn’t even move,” he said. “The government needs to think of a way to fix this.”
A simmering separatist rebellion by some Uighurs against Chinese rule has flared into occasional violence over the decades. In the past year, violent attacks have picked up and, unlike in the past, begun targeting civilians.
In late April a knife and bomb attack at Urumqi’s main railway station killed three and injured 79. Then, on Thursday, men drove cars into a street-side market and detonated explosives, leaving 43 dead and wounding 94. The dead included four of the attackers; police arrested a suspected fifth attacker in another part of Xinjiang, state media reported early Saturday.
The tourists in the bazaar brushed off the violence. “It’s fine. The situation isn’t that serious,” said a Han Chinese man, a 53-year-old teacher who also gave his last name as Li. Mr. Li said he arrived in Urumqi on Friday night from Beijing to tour the region with his younger brother. He said he knew about the Thursday’s attack but chose not to cancel his trip.
Security around the bazaar was noticeable, though lighter than on Friday, when hundreds of Uighurs gathered in the plaza for their weekly prayer. An armored police vehicle remained parked outside an entrance and bag checks were enforced. An outlet of the French hypermarket Carrefour, located underground beneath the bazaar, installed a bag-screening machine at its entrances on Wednesday, according to an employee.
Outside the entrance to a clothing market were pasted notices torn out of a newspaper containing a speech—in both Chinese and Uighur—denouncing the attack by the head of the Xinjiang regional government.
Tourism has become an important part of the Xinjiang economy, allowing the development of smaller businesses. The region’s oil, gas and mineral resources, as well as its agriculture, are dominated by big, mostly state-owned entities.
One seller of cigarettes, scarves and other souvenirs, who gave his surname as Song, said the number of customers at his shop had halved since last year. He suggested the government support small-business owners by introducing policies to offset the decline in customers.
Not everyone at the bazaar was convinced the recent attacks are the reason for the sharp decline in visitors. Ma Linyu, who sells medicinal herbs and is a member of another predominantly Muslim ethnic group, the Hui, blamed instability in China and the rest of the world. She said the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 and China’s conflict with Vietnam and others in the South China Sea are contributing to an overall slump of vacationers in China.
“The entire country is like this; it’s not just Xinjiang,” she said. Although there was a noticeable drop in traffic for a few days after this month’s train-station blast, she said traffic has consistently been lower since the second half of last year.
Still, Ms. Ma praised the police presence outside the bazaar. “The police standing outside is a good thing. They protect us. If they weren’t there, we would be in a worse situation.”
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

This is why China is foolish to build and invest in the Karakoram highway project from Xinjiang to Pakistan's Gwader port facilities. Unless China changes its current repression of Muslims in the region, China will face terrorism at both ends of the Karakoram highway Chinese dream....................if it ever gets completed!
Force induced stability only works if the potential unrest is minor. When the tipping point is reached with too many unhappy souls, chaos leading to collapse results. China has overreached.
A few more of these, and pollution will not be the main deterrence for foreigners working in China. Stability, one of the main driver's of foreign investment is slowly eroding........
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
