2014-04~06
http://www.aljazeera.com/news/asia-pacific/2014/06/thirteen-shot-dead-after-china-bomb-attack-20146213434779465.html/RK=0

Thirteen shot dead after China bomb attack - Al Jazeera English
Meet the refugees who fled Syria for the Gaza Strip
Security forces in China have shot dead 13 people in the troubled Xinjiang region after they drove into a police building and set off an explosion, state media reported.
"Today thugs crashed a car into the public security building of Kargilik county in Xinjiang's Kashgar prefecture and set off an explosion. Police took decisive action and shot dead 13 thugs," the official Tianshan web portal reported on Saturday, adding that three police were injured.
It was the latest in a series of attacks pointing to growing unrest in the sprawling region, where the native Muslim Uighur people want more autonomy from Beijing.
Last month, a market bombing killed 43 people in Xinjiang's capital, Urumqi.
In March, a knife assault at a railway station in the southern city of Kunming left 29 dead and 143 wounded.
Chinese authorities have blamed the attacks on "extremists" bent on overthrowing Beijing's rule.
Andrew Leung, a China analyst from Hong Kong, told Al Jazeera that the situation in Xinjiang is turning "from bad to worse."   
"The local residents feel marginalised because there is a huge influx of Han [Chinese]," he said.  
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists also said China's own repressive policies in Xinjiang have provoked the unrest.
Authorities in Xinjiang have arrested dozens of suspects in recent weeks for spreading "extremist" propaganda, possessing banned weapons and other crimes.  
Last Monday, China executed 13 people accused of terror attacks in Xinjiang.
An attack on a busy market in China's troubled Xinjiang region leaves dozens dead.
Beijing vows to punish those responsible for attack that killed 31 people in troubled western region.

 Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
 are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
 or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
 global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
 accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.

A crew of underground rappers in Havana fight for a free Cuba by taking the young to task over their apathy.
Aboriginal communities taking their cases against oil pipeline and seismic testing to Supreme Court of Canada.
Who dies and where they were shot determines how much attention their deaths get and how many questions are asked.
The Gulf’s ace women's tennis player is putting the region on the world tennis map and eyeing an historic Olympic spot.
An attack on a busy market in China's troubled Xinjiang region leaves dozens dead.
Beijing vows to punish those responsible for attack that killed 31 people in troubled western region.
Witnesses say several people were wounded as blasts went off in departures hall of Belgium's main international airport.
At unprecedented joint press conference, US and Cuban presidents go toe-to-toe on human rights and economic punishment.
Latin American migrants risk life and limb to reach the US border in search of the American dream.
The incredible story of 18 cows that became Israel's most wanted fugitives and symbols of Palestinian resistance.
Five years after the revolution, Tunisia's black minority has yet to experience the freedoms enjoyed by other citizens.