2014-04~06
http://www.todayonline.com/world/china-widen-ramadan-fasting-ban-uighurs

China to widen Ramadan fasting ban on Uighurs | TODAYonline
BEIJING — China’s government revealed yesterday that it will widen a ban against fasting during the holy month of Ramadan imposed on Uighurs in Xinjiang province, in what seems to be the latest move by Beijing to strengthen its grip on minority Muslims and curtail their expression of religion.
In a continuation of last year’s ban on Ramadan fasting, state websites have been putting up notices asking not only students and civil servants, but, according to a Reuters report, even teachers to not observe Ramadan, which began yesterday. During the month of Ramadan, Muslims fast from dawn to dusk.
This sits uneasily with China’s ruling Communist party as it is officially atheist.
The central government for years has restricted the practice in Xinjiang, home to the mostly Muslim Uighur minority.
In some particularly restive counties in the province, officials have been asked to give assurances, orally and in writing, “guaranteeing they have no faith, will not attend religious activities and will lead the way in not fasting over Ramadan”, Reuters reported citing state media.
To further dilute the fasting atmosphere, food safety officials in Jinghe county near the Kazakh border encouraged halal restaurants to observe normal opening hours during the fasting month, said a report by Shanghaiist news portal. It is believed that restaurants that stay open throughout the day will be rewarded with fewer food-inspection checks.
China has struggled to tame unrest among some Muslims, particularly the Uighurs in the far flung western provinces, many of whom chafe at the government’s strict controls on religion.
In May last year, Beijing launched a “people’s war on terror” in the wake of a market bombing in Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang province, in which 31 people were killed. The government has put in place a series of laws and regulations to govern religious expression. Women in Urumqi were banned from wearing the burqa — an outer garment to cover the body in public — since January. Students and civil servants have been banned since last year from fasting during Ramadan.
Last month, the government ordered shops in a village in Xinjiang province to sell alcohol and cigarettes and display them in a prominent manner, stating that ethnic Uighurs who did not smoke were adhering to a form of religious extremism.
Despite the various policies against religious expression, there has been backlash from the Uighurs, who have either become more strictly observant of Islamic practices or found ways to circumvent the government bans.
“China’s goal in prohibiting fasting is to forcibly move Uighurs away from their Muslim culture during Ramadan,” said Mr Dilxat Rexit, a spokesman for the exiled World Uighur Congress. “Policies that prohibit religious fasting are a provocation and will only lead to instability and conflict.” AGENCIES