2014-04~06
http://news.kuwaittimes.net/china-bombing-shows-new-level-militancy/

China bombing shows new level of militancy - Kuwait Times | Kuwait Times
Go to Admin » Appearance » Widgets » and move Gabfire Widget: Social into that MastheadOverlay zone
URUMQI: A bombing in western China that killed three people and wounded 79 has raised concerns about the apparent sophistication and daring of the attack, possibly timed to coincide with a visit to the heavily Muslim region by President Xi Jinping. Unidentified assailants used explosives and knives in their assault on a railway station in Urumqi on Wednesday, the first bomb attack in the capital of Xinjiang region in 17 years, at a time of likely heavy security and soon after the arrival of a train from a mainly Han Chinese province, state media said. Yesterday, dozens of black police vans were parked around the station, while camouflaged police with assault rifles patrolled its entrance. Despite the security, the station was bustling and appeared to be operating normally.
The government blamed the attack on “terrorists”, a term it uses to describe Islamist militants and separatists in Xinjiang who have waged a sometimes violent campaign for an independent East Turkestan state - a campaign that has stirred fears that jihadist groups could become active in western China. Initial accounts of the attack came almost exclusively from Chinese state media, which did not say if any of the attackers had been killed or captured. Nor did they say if Xi, who was wrapping up his visit, was anywhere near Urumqi at the time. Pan Zhiping, a retired expert on Central Asia at Xinjiang’s Academy of Social Science, described the attack as very well organised, saying it was timed to coincide with Xi’s visit. “It is very clear that they are challenging the Chinese government,” he said. “There was a time last year when they were targeting the public security bureau, the police stations and the troops. Now it’s indiscriminate - terrorist activities are conducted in places where people gather the most.” There has been no claim of responsibility for the attack. But the language used by the government to describe the incident, with the reference to the assailants as “terrorists”, implies that it was carried out by Uighurs, the Muslim people who call Xinjiang home, many of whom chafe at government controls on their culture and religion
Act of defiance Nicholas Bequelin, a senior researcher at New York-based Human Rights Watch who closely follows developments in Xinjiang, called the attack “an unprecedented act of defiance from Uighurs who oppose the Chinese state”. “It’s hugely significant and it’s extremely politically embarrassing for Xi Jinping who has taken a very hard stance on the Xinjiang issue, and made a big show while visiting Xinjiang that Xinjiang is safe for the Han,” he said. The attack was the first bombing in Urumqi since bombs on buses killed nine people in 1997. It was also the largest militant attack there since the government blamed Uighurs for stabbing hundreds of Han Chinese with needles in 2009.—Reuters