2014-04~06
http://www.emirates247.com/offbeat/crazy-world/militants-seek-to-ban-laughter-crying-china-2014-04-08-1.544680

Militants seek to ban laughter, crying: China - Emirates 24|7
The governor of China's restive far western region of Xinjiang wrote on Monday that militants were trying to ban laughter at weddings and crying at funerals, as he appealed to people to stamp out the "tumour" of extremism.
Xinjiang, resource-rich and strategically located on the borders of central Asia, has been beset by violence for years, blamed by the government on militants and separatists.
Exiles and many rights groups say the real cause of the unrest is China's heavy-handed policies, including curbs on the culture and language of the Muslim Uighur people who call Xinjiang home.
China's nervousness about Islamist extremism has grown since a car burst into flames on the edge of Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October, and 29 people were stabbed to death last month in the southwestern city of Kunming.
Writing in the official Xinjiang Daily, Xinjiang governor Nur Bekri said that acts of terror had been made possible by extremists taking advantage of people's faith, especially "young people who have seen little of the world".
China's ruling atheist Communist Party has issued similar warnings in the past about extremism, accompanied by a harsh crackdown on suspected militants.
Bekri, an Uighur himself, accused the militants of ignoring the region's own traditions and of wanting to enforce a strict theocratic society.
"They ... push the banning of watching television, listen to the radio, reading newspapers, singing and dancing, not allowing laughter at weddings nor crying at funerals," he added.
Extremists are also demanding that not only food, but also cosmetics, medicine and clothing be halal, and push the idea that government-subsidised housing is not halal and to be avoided, Bekri wrote.

The world's longest aircraft, an airship spanning more than six double-decker buses, is set to make its maiden flight 



When Barcelona superstar Lionel Messi isn't breaking records he's breaking limbs, as one unlucky fan.



An adorable video has emerged of a little girl telling her dad that she is getting ready to go on a date with Harry 



Ukrainian driver takes a different approach to a traffic jam - by going down the other side of the road in reverse.



In the background of an airport interview for Sports Center on Norwegian TV a woman is there one minute...and not the 



The girl plants an innocent kiss on the glass in front of the lion.



Sub-Dh1,700, 4-inch device has specs that match the premium iPhone 6s



Fix surveillance cameras on tower cranes or any high place: Dubai Municipality



Court rules her Native American blood requires her placement with relatives



Women and children flee to relatives' and friends' houses in Dubai and other emirates to escape heat



Fare ranges between Dh50 and Dh570 for regular trips and Dh400 per hour for tourist journey



A prominent Saudi psychiatrist has urged local families to market their daughters for early marriage, saying this would

