2014-04~06
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2014-05-26/china-launches-yearlong-crackdown-on-terrorism-after-xinjiang-attack/1316674

China launches year-long crackdown on 'terrorism' after Xinjiang attack | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
China launches a nationwide "anti-terror" operation following a deadly suicide attack in the troubled Xinjiang region.
China has vowed a year-long campaign against terrorism, days after attackers in the western region of Xinjiang reportedly killed 39 people in a suicide attack.
"With Xinjiang as the centre, and with cooperation from other provinces, we will start a year-long specialised hard-strike campaign against violent terrorism," the Ministry of Public Security said on its website.
Its statement on Sunday reflects the government's concerns about terror after a series of deadly attacks in recent months targeting civilians and linked to Xinjiang, home of the mostly Muslim Uighur minority.
The statement said the campaign would last until June 2015 and is aimed at "preventing the spread of religious extremism" from Xinjiang to the country's interior.
It indicates a nationwide expansion of a year-long crackdown in Xinjiang, which authorities announced on Saturday.
Police have been instructed to "collect clues related to violent terror" under the direction of an anti-terrorism "leading small group", which is likely to include high-level officials from the ruling Communist party.
Five suspects carried out the attack on Thursday in Xinjiang's capital Urumqi which "killed 39 innocent people" and injured more than 90 others, the state-run Xinhua news agency said.
One suspect has been arrested, Xinhua said, while four others died when they crashed cars into a marketplace and threw explosives.
The United States and the United Nations have condemned the violence in Urumqi.
Beijing says it faces terrorism from a violent separatist movement in Xinjiang, driven by religious extremism and foreign terrorist groups.
But it is unclear how organised the militant groups in Xinjiang are, or whether they have links to foreign organisations. China tightly controls reporting in the region, making independent information scarce.
Rights groups point to economic inequality and cultural and religious repression of Uighurs as drivers of unrest in the vast and resource-rich far-western region.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.