2014-04~06
http://www.worldbulletin.net/haberler/137811/china-indicts-eight-for-tiananmen-car-attack

China indicts eight for Tiananmen car attack | America-Canada | Worldbulletin News
Prosecutors in western China have indicted eight people over an attack on the edge of Beijing's Tiananmen Square last October when a car ploughed into a crowd and caught fire, state media reported on Saturday.
Three people in the car and two bystanders were killed in the attack which the government blamed on Uighur separatists from the western region of East Turkestan (Xinjiang). Forty people were hurt in the attack.
The procuratorate of Urumqi, the capital of East Turkestan, accused the eight of "organizing, leading and participating (in) a 'terrorist' group and endangering public security with dangerous method", Xinhua news agency said.
China is waging a year-long campaign and has focused on East Turkestan, home to a large Muslim Uighur minority, following a series of bloody attacks that Beijing blames on separatists from the region.
Xinhua did not identify the eight who were indicted. It said they would stand trial at the Urumqi Intermediate People's Court but did not give a date.
Since the Oct. 28 attack there have been several other attacks that the government has blamed on separatists from East Turkestan, the deadliest of which occurred on May 22 when, according to the government, five suicide bombers hit a market in Urumqi killing 39 people.
A few weeks earlier a bomb went off at a train station killing one person and wounding 79.
Chinese authorities have blamed what they called the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a Muslim Uighur separatist group, for the Oct. 28 attack at the foot of the Forbidden City in Beijing.
Chinese President Xi Jinping this week pledged to alleviate poverty and improve ethnic unity in restive Xinjiang. Experts have long said economic marginalisation of East Turkestan's Uighurs is one of the main causes of the violence. 
Two loud explosions have been heard at Brussels airport forcing the closure to all departures and arrivals
State Dept. spokesman contradicts Pentagon announcement that additional deployment sent to Iraq to help fight ISIL
Barack Obama scheduled to address the Cuban people on national television and meet dissidents
Washington expects Russia to respond to US counterproposal on modalities for implementing cease-fire deal
Sole Jewish candidate skips annual pro-Israeli conference; uses campaign stop to challenge Tel Aviv’s policies
A gunman has been killed by security guards after 4 attackers stormed a hotel in Mali
Bemba was found guilty of crimes against humanity and war crimes committed by his militia in Central African Republic between 2002 and 2003
Newly constructed artillery base near Mahmur targeted in weekend attack, anti-ISIL spokesman says
Peace talks between government of Sudan and various rebel forces have been held in Addis Ababa since last Friday
They were killed in an 'ongoing army operation' in El Oued province, 600 kilometres (370 miles) southeast of Algiers
US president starts his formal meeting with his Cuban counterpart in Havana
A report lays bare the extent of the damage since the insurgency began in 2009 and which at one point saw the armed group control swathes of territory across the northeast of Nigeria
'We agreed from the European Union side to increase the support to Lebanon that has been significant so far,' Federica Mogherini says
Interior ministry officials are probing all the facts and circumstances of the event
'Lack of cooperation regrettably seems to signal the continuation of a situation under which Palestinians suffer daily human rights violations under the Israeli occupation,' Makarim Wibisono says
Chinese police raided 148 points in Muslim Xinjiang in 2014
China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing'
US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

Gunman killed in attack on Mali hotel hosting EU mission

Myanmar: Suu Kyi tipped to take FM post in new cabinet

Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
