2014-04~06
http://www.kelownadailycourier.ca/news/world_news/article_d35a4019-b234-54f4-9a37-d5b98410dace.html

State media say China executes 13 people for terrorism, violent crimes in restive northwest - Daily Courier: World News
ROMULUS, Mich. - Seven decades after their "we can do it" attitude proved invaluable to the Allied victory in World War II, some "Rosie the Ri…
Former Kelowna Rockets goaltender Jordan Cooke was named CIS Goalie of the Year during the men’s national hockey championship over the weekend…
A former Crown prosecutor who secured two convictions in a high-profile Kelowna murder case has returned home to Penticton to join a law practice.
March 27: Actor Michael York is 74. Keyboardist Tony Banks (Genesis) is 66. Keyboardist Andrew Farriss (INXS) is 57. Jazz musician Dave Koz is…
LONDON - It's nearly 50 years since Iain Macmillan snapped the cover photo for the Beatles' Abbey Road album, and still fans of the Fab Four f…
I agree talking and texting is dangerous, both for the offender and those around them.
FILE - In this Oct. 28, 2013 file photo, cleaners walk past an area shielded by green nets in front of Tiananmen Gate after a car plowed through tourists and ended up in a fiery crash at the gate in the heart of Beijing, killing two bystanders and the three attackers. A court in western China sentenced three people to death Monday, June 16, 2014 for planning the deadly car ramming at Beijing's iconic Tiananmen Gate last year that was blamed on Muslim separatists, state media reported. (AP Photo/Alexander F. Yuan, File)

State media say China executes 13 people for terrorism, violent crimes in restive northwest

 0 comments
 

BEIJING, China - China executed 13 people on Monday over terrorism and violent crimes in the far western region of Xinjiang, including three men accused in an attack that left at least 34 people dead, state media said.
The executions took place on the same day that a Xinjiang court sentenced three other people to death for planning a deadly car ramming at Beijing's Tiananmen Gate last year that killed five people. The government has been waging a harsh crackdown after a series of deadly attacks blamed on Muslim separatists in the Xinjiang region.


 An online service is needed to view this article in its entirety.
 

 You need an online service to view this article in its entirety.
 

Are you a current print subscriber to the Daily Courier? Activate your digital subscription for only $3.49 per month and receive total digital access.

Thank you for reading 5 free articles on our site. You can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 5 free articles, or you can purchase a subscription at this time and continue to enjoy valuable local news and information. If you need help, please contact our office at (250) 763-4000.
 

 You need an online service to view this article in its entirety.
 

Are you a current print subscriber to the Daily Courier? Activate your digital subscription for only $3.49 per month and receive total digital access.

 Posted in
 World News
 
 on
 
 Monday, June 16, 2014 8:51 am.
 
 
 | Tags: 
 

International


We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
Kelownadailycourier.ca
Phone number: (250) 763-4000
E-mail: csr@ok.bc.ca
Address: 550 Doyle Avenue
 Kelowna, BC V1Y 7V1

© Copyright 2016, Daily Courier, Kelowna, BC. Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. 
