2014-04~06
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/chinas-key-public-areas-have-security-cameras-2020

China’s key public areas to have security cameras by 2020 | TODAYonline
BEIJING — China will ensure video surveillance cameras are installed in all key public areas by 2020 to fight crime and ensure social stability, said the government. The move is part of a broader push to step up security in response to recent social unrest.
Beijing has taken a series of measures to halt attacks by extremists, including plans for an antiterrorism law that would give the government broader surveillance powers and an offer to pay for tip-offs on violent plots.
Places such as roads will be fully covered by cameras and the information they gather will be shared with the authorities, said the National Development and Reform Commission, the country’s top economic planner, in a statement on Wednesday.
“Building a public security surveillance net is an important measure under the new situation to maintain national security and social stability as well as prevent and combat violent terrorist crimes,” said the commission.
The plan aims to enhance public security monitoring, optimise traffic conditions and “improve social management”, it added.
As part of this clampdown, the government last month said it would establish a national population database linked to identity information as well as personal credit records.
In addition, China will require identification from those who register at hotels and for trade of second-hand goods, motor refitting and “recreation services”, said government news agency Xinhua last month, without specifying said “recreation services”.
Local governments will be required to ensure the cameras work around the clock and function effectively, the statement said.
China was rocked last year by a string of knife and bomb attacks, blamed on separatists from Xinjiang. Hundreds of people have been killed in the western province, strategically located on the borders of central Asia, as a result of violence in the past two years between Uighurs and the Han Chinese ethnic majority.
Xinjiang’s Muslim Uighurs have chafed under growing restrictions from China, including those on their religion, language and culture.