2014-04~06
http://www.kiamaindependent.com.au/story/2255804/xinjiang-railway-attack-it-was-as-if-someone-stepped-on-a-landmine/?cs=12/RK=0

Xinjiang railway attack: 'It was as if someone stepped on a landmine' | Kiama Independent

 Tanh Yan was standing at the entrance to China's bustling Urumqi railway station when all hell broke loose.

Cleaners scrub the scene of the Urumqi train station blast. Photo: Philip Wen
Urumqi: Tang Yan’s job is to stand outside a variety store every day and call out to potential customers emerging from the bustling Urumqi south railway station, the biggest in China’s far-western region of Xinjiang.
Perched on a short flight of stairs overlooking the station’s square, the 19-year-old stood watching as commuters emerged from a long-distance train from Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province, shortly after 7pm on Wednesday night.
As scores of passengers squeezed through a narrow exit on the southern side of the station square, a loud, powerful and apparently strategically positioned explosion erupted, killing three people, including two ethnic Uighurs suspected of having set off the blast. Another 79 people were injured.
“It was as if someone stepped on a landmine,” Ms Tang said, adding the blast was so loud that even those tens of metres away were momentarily deafened by the explosion.
A plume of white smoke engulfed the scene and, after a short, stunned pause, chaos ensued as panicked passengers scattered in all directions.
“I heard the explosion and I saw everyone running everywhere, so I ran, too,” one woman, a dried-fruit vendor at the station, said. “I’m an old lady, but I ran.”
Emergency services and armed police arrived within 10 minutes of the attack, carrying off bloodied passengers, according to numerous accounts. By 8pm, shop owners were ordered to pack up and leave, and the immediate vicinity of the station was evacuated and blocked off to the public for about two hours.
Xinjiang authorities said on Thursday night the two suspects killed in the explosion were motivated by religious extremism.
While not explicitly confirming the suspects were Uighur, the suspect identified by authorities had a identifiably Uighur name, and a recent spate of violence has been attributed to the predominantly Muslim ethnic minority native to Xinjiang.
“An investigation showed one of the two suspects was Sedirdin Sawut, a 39-year-old man from Xayar County, Aksu in southern Xinjiang,” official news agency Xinhua reported. “The two have long been involved in religious extremism. At 7.10pm on Wednesday, they stabbed people with knives and set off explosives at the exit of Urumqi south railway station.”
The timing of the attack coincided the last day of a high-profile and symbolic four-day tour of the region by Chinese President Xi Jinping, who signalled even stronger measures to deliver a "crushing blow" to terrorism in the region.
"The battle to combat violence and terrorism will not allow even a moment of slackness, and decisive actions must be taken to resolutely suppress the terrorists' rampant momentum," Mr Xi said after the attack.
While fighting terrorism, China will deploy a "strike first" strategy against terrorists in this region to “deter enemies and inspire people”, he said.
But analysts point to the increasing trend of apparently strategically targeted violence by ethnic Uighurs angered by the central government’s policies in policing the region, which they say are discriminatory and restrict their employment opportunities and right to freely practise their religion.
“The attack seems aimed at sending a message to Xi Jinping and the party that at least some Uighurs aren't buying into his ‘China Dream’,” Beijing-based Xinjiang expert Jim Leibold said.
Dr Leibold said the Chinese leadership has “clearly been doubling down on Xinjiang”, evidenced through a four-fold increase in Xinjiang’s domestic security budget since 2009, intensifying bilingual education, and by sending 200,000 Communist Party cadres deep into the Xinjiang heartland to live in predominantly Uighur communities, through a “mass line” program that started in March.
Armed police were guarding the main entrance to Urumqi’s Autonomous Region Hospital, where most of those injured in the train station blast were taken. With a heavy police presence outside at least three wards in the hospital where the injured were recuperating, passengers were reticent in describing what they saw to journalists.
“I was busy pushing my luggage, so I didn’t really see what happened,” said one man from his hospital bed who sustained a fractured ankle in the scrum after the blast. He declined to be named.
But highlighting the tensions from the government’s mass line campaign, Fairfax Media spoke to one party cadre who was nursing two broken ribs at the hospital after she said she was rammed by an angry Uighur villager on a scooter.
“The villagers are good people, but they are so easily misled and used by other people,” she said.
While the government says the spate of violence in the region is intensifying due to the online proliferation of terrorism manuals spread by religious extremists and overseas separatist Uighur organisations, Uighurs say the violence has been a desperate but unco-ordinated response to government oppression.
The alleged train station bomber, Sedirdin Sawut, was from Aksu prefecture, where hundreds of Uighurs took to the street in protest last month after police gunned down a motorcyclist whose only crime, locals say, was speeding through a red light.
The perpetrator of the Tiananmen Square car crash in October that killed five people was angered by the demolition of his village mosque, while the mass stabbing at a train station in Kunming in March, which killed 29 people, was a suicide attack after the assailants were barred from leaving the country, according to rights groups.
But the unjustified killing of innocent civilians has only served to intensify long-standing tensions between Uighurs and ethnic Han Chinese in Xinjiang that have festered since the Urumqi riots of 2009.
“What’s the use of them doing this? They can bomb us 100 times and it’s no use,” an ethnic Han Chinese proprietor of a jade store at the Urumqi south station, where dozens of paramilitary were patrolling, said. “They are brainwashed, brain dead.”
Shop assistant Ms Tang, 19, said she has grown accustomed to all the reports of violence in the region, and said the explosion was less scary than the angry mob that ran through the streets during the riots of 2009. “I’m used to it. I’m not afraid, it’s passed,” she said. “After the things happened, we just showed up to work like normal the next day.”  

The story Xinjiang railway attack: 'It was as if someone stepped on a landmine' first appeared on The Sydney Morning Herald.
Narooma High School robotics team travels to Sydney to compete against the best technology students in Asia Pacific.
 

Prince Harry is on a five-day visit to Nepal, his first official tour of the country.
 

Delacombe mechanic poses for trophy photo after hunting down alleged car thief.
 

Australia keep their hopes of qualifying for the ICC World T20 semi-finals alive with a narrow three-wicket win ...
 
