2014-04~06
http://ca.reuters.com/article/topNews/idCAKBN0EA0MF20140530

China's Xi vows to address poverty, ethnic unity in troubled Xinjiang | Top News | Reuters
BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese President Xi Jinping has pledged to alleviate poverty and improve ethnic unity in restive Xinjiang, the most direct indication yet that China's leaders want to address the causes of violence in the remote western region.
Xi's comments, made in a speech to Communist Party leaders on Thursday and quoted heavily in Chinese media again on Friday, came after five suicide bombers killed 39 people and wounded 94 in an attack on a vegetable market in the Xinjiang capital, Urumqi, last week, the deadliest such incident in years.
Experts have long said economic marginalization of Xinjiang's large Muslim Uighur ethnic group is one of the main causes of the violence. However, until now, China's leadership had not openly expressed an intention to address the poor economic conditions faced by Xinjiang's Uighurs.
Xi said "the most long-term problem in Xinjiang is still one of ethnic unity", and that investment in the region must be increased to alleviate poverty.
"We must emphasize absorbing local labor and encourage Xinjiang people to work in the region," he said, in a reference to Uighur workers.
"Employment must be made a priority. Authorities need to help people find employment in the cities as well as find jobs and set up their own businesses near their homes," the official English-language China Daily quoted Xi as saying.
Xinjiang, resource-rich and strategically located on the borders of central Asia, is crucial to China's growing energy needs. Analysts say that, despite its mineral wealth and billions of dollars of investment, much of the proceeds have gone to majority Han Chinese, stoking resentment among Uighurs.
Rights groups also complain that Uighurs - who speak a Turkic language - are cut off from economic development because they face hiring discrimination, with jobs going to an influx of migrant workers from other parts of China. 
  Continued...
International Editions :

Africa  | 
 Arabic  | 
 Argentina  | 
 Brazil  | 
 Canada  | 
 China  | 
 France  | 
 Germany  | 
 India  | 
 Italy  | 
 Japan  | 
 Latin America  | 
 Mexico  | 
 Russia  | 
 Spain  | 
 United Kingdom  | 
 United States
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.