2014-04~06
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/10859709/China-offers-cash-bonuses-to-tourists-who-visit-troubled-west.html

China offers cash bonuses to tourists who visit troubled west - Telegraph
Tourism chiefs in China's far west are offering cash bonuses to travellers prepared to holiday there following a spate of deadly attacks that have been linked to groups of extremists from the region.
Since last October more than 80 people have died across China in knife and bomb attacks that Beijing has blamed on Islamic militants from Xinjiang province, a sprawling desert region around the ancient Silk Road.
Urumqi, Xinjiang's capital, has witnessed two major attacks in the last month, including a May 22 suicide attack on a street market that claimed 44 lives.
Inaam Nesirdin, Xinjiang's tourist chief, told China Radio International tourism had been booming, with a record 50 million visitors last year.
Xinjiang, which is around three times the size of France, is home to spectacular, snow-capped mountains, bustling desert oasis towns and the sand-swept ruins of ancient cities.

China shuts bomb factories as 'people's war' on terror begins


Chinese court sentences 55 for terrorism charges in front of packed stadium


China terror attack leaves dozens killed after bombs thrown into busy market


China president vows to crush terrorism after train station attack kills three

It is also the location of the Red Mountain Command Base, a once top-secret military facility where scientists produced China's first atom bomb during the 1960s. The facility was recently transformed into a £30m theme park paying tribute to the Communist Party.
However, tourist numbers collapsed after terror groups from Xinjiang were blamed for a March 1 knife attack on a train station in the southwestern city of Kunming that state media dubbed "China's 9/11".
The number of visitors fell 40 per cent between March and May compared to last year, Mr Nesirdin said.
Policemen investigate the scene outside the train station in Kunming in March (EPA)
"The terrorist incident in Kunming in March and the attacks in Xinjiang have affected tourism considerably. Many people have suspended their trips to Xinjiang."
To reverse the trend, a "special fund" worth 20 million yuan (£1.9 million) has been created to pay 500 yuan bonuses to those who came to the province.
Following last week's market bombing in Xinjiang's capital, the US embassy in Beijing ordered staff to postpone travel to the province. The Foreign Office currently advises British travellers to remain "vigilant" there.
Mr Nesirdin insisted Xinjiang was safe, noting that "not a single" tourist had been injured by an attack there in around 10 years.
"Seeing is believing. Come to Xinjiang to take a look," he added.

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
