2014-04~06
http://english.peopledaily.com.cn/n/2014/0527/c98649-8733101.html

The time is ripe for international anti-terror cooperation - People's Daily Online

 The forces of "East Turkistan" are operating in multiple overseas bases. Its wide distribution and operation through numerous secret channels demand more international cooperation mechanisms that allow countries to share intelligence to hunt down terrorist organizations.

 The terrorist attack in Urumqi on May 22 was conducted by five terrorists, of whom 4 blew themselves up and another was captured in Xinjiang.

 China's Ministry of Public Security reportedly briefed 33 foreign security attaches from 29 countries on the attack, who were shown videos and pictures of the scene of the explosion. Those countries including the United States, Russia and New Zealand. Foreign attendees of the briefing condemned the attack and expressed their willingness to strengthen anti-terror cooperation with China. The Federal Bureau of Investigation pledged support to China. The U.S. has for the first time defined such incidents as “terrorist attacks”.

 The unprecedented unity in the international community is conducive to the strengthening of international anti-terror cooperation.

 The need for international anti-terror cooperation is beyond any doubt. The 'Three Evils' operations usually cross international borders. Terrorist organizations are operating in various countries with similar patterns and their funds flow internationally. Operational orders, videos and profiles advocating violence, and equipment are all imported from abroad. Some terrorists receive illegal or terrorist training abroad, and some of these have committed terrorist crimes in numerous countries. It is therefore essential for the international community to share information, block sources of finance, and conduct joint law enforcement.

 Meanwhile, international cooperation on the fight against terrorism is feasible. Many nations are beginning to establish mechanisms for security cooperation to further clamp down on terrorism and transnational crime. Many countries are gaining experience in border control, investigation and prevention, financial control, etc. Experience sharing would enhance anti-terror capacities.

 It should be recognized that international cooperation has not yet covered all aspects of the fight against international terrorism. Acts of Terror are impacting the whole world. China has placed itself in the front line of the global anti-terror struggle. Only by seeking international cooperation can we better protect our citizens' security.

The article is edited and translated from打击暴恐，国际合作正当其时; Source: Beijing News