2014-04~06
http://ca.reuters.com/article/topNews/idCAKBN0ES0I820140617

Concerns rise over China's detention of Uighur scholar | Top News | Reuters
BEIJING (Reuters) - Concerns about the prolonged detention in China of prominent Uighur academic Ilham Tohti are rising amid a crackdown by Beijing on Islamist separatists it says are seeking to establish an independent state in the far west.
Tohti's lawyer said on Tuesday that sources have told him that the Minzu University economics professor, who was detained in January and later charged with separatism, may have been secretly tried and given a heavy jail sentence.
Li Fangping said police wouldn't say whether a secret trial had taken place. Calls by Reuters to police in Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang region, went unanswered. China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs declined to comment on Tohti's case.
"Someone finally picked up the phone at the Urumqi public security bureau late yesterday," Li said. "They didn't confirm or deny that a trial had taken place."
Tohti's case underscores the government's crackdown on dissent in Xinjiang, which has been plagued by a series of attacks in public places. Xinjiang is the traditional home of the Uighur ethnic minority group.
Li said he had repeatedly called public security authorities, and he had not been able to communicate with Tohti.
"I simply don't dare to believe it, there's no way to confirm it," Li wrote on a social media app earlier. "If it really can be like this, I have no idea what route the legal process can take."
Tohti was known for championing the rights of the mostly Muslim Uighurs. Rights groups say the outspoken academic from the university in Beijing is being unfairly punished.
  Continued...
International Editions :

Africa  | 
 Arabic  | 
 Argentina  | 
 Brazil  | 
 Canada  | 
 China  | 
 France  | 
 Germany  | 
 India  | 
 Italy  | 
 Japan  | 
 Latin America  | 
 Mexico  | 
 Russia  | 
 Spain  | 
 United Kingdom  | 
 United States
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.