2014-04~06
http://english.cri.cn/7146/2014/05/23/191s827977.htm

International Community Condemns Xinjiang Attack
Chinese authorities are strongly condemning a terror attack in Xinjiang on Thursday, and are reinforcing their resolve in the fight against terrorism.So far 31 people have been confirmed dead and 94 injured.The international community has also expressed condemnation of the violence.CRI's Ding Lulu has more.The terror attack took place at a market in the city of Urumqi.Terrorists drove two vehicles into a crowd of people in a public square, tossing explosives at shoppers as they plowed through the mass of people before blowing up their vehicles.Chinese authorities have strongly condemned the attack, and have vowed to work harder in fighting terrorism and safeguarding social stability.Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hong Lei:"In response to the attack, Chinese President Xi Jinping has pledged to solve the case quickly and severely punish terrorists; and to spare no effort in maintaining stability. The Chinese government is confident and capable of cracking down on violent terrorists." So far, no claim of responsibility for the attack has been made.A task force led by Public Security Minister Guo Shengkun has gone to Xinjiang to assist in the investigation. The regional government has launched an emergency response to treat survivors.Many of the dead and injured are elderly people who frequent the market in the morning. Casualties include people from both Han and Uygur ethnic groups.It is the worst event in the far western region since riots in the capital in July of 2009. That incident saw nearly 200 people lose their lives, while more than 17-hundred others were injured."The violence, a further indication of the inhuman and anti-social nature of the terrorists, should be condemned by the Chinese people and the international community."The attack has sparked strong condemnation from locals in Xinjiang.Nur Bekri, chairman of the Xinjiang regional government, issued his condemnation during a televised speech.He said terrorists will never stop the development of Xinjiang and vowed to doggedly puruse the perpetrators.Meanwhile the international community has also issued condemnations and offered condolences to the victims.UN Secretary-General Ban Ki- moon has issued a statement saying that "there is no justification for the killing of civilians." The United States, joined by Russia, France and the European Union, also issued condemnations of the attack.U.S. State Department spokesperson Jen Psaki"The United States strongly condemns the violent terrorist attack today May 22 against innocent citizens in a market area near People's Park in Urumqi in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of China. We offer our deepest condolences and sympathies to the victims, their families and all of those affected by this tragedy."Xinjiang is a remote region. More than half of its population is made up of Muslim ethnic minorities. Violent attacks in the name of "jihad" have been increasing since 2009 and are the biggest threat to the region. The latest incident happened just weeks after an attack at a railway station in Urumqi, which killed three and injured 79 others. For CRI, this is Ding Lulu.
Why is Russia ordering the partial retreat of its forces from Syria now?
How can the anti-corruption campaign be better advanced by the judicial powers?