2014-04~06
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2014/05/02/china-screams-terrorism-u-s-says-prove-it/

China Says Terrorism, U.S. Says Prove It - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
After a deadly explosion in China’s restive western region of Xinjiang this week, few observers were surprised when China’s government quickly blamed separatists for an act of terrorism.
The U.S. government a day later called on Beijing to provide more proof about such claims.
Released on Thursday, the China section of the U.S. State Department’s annual Country Reports on Terrorism didn’t deal with the latest railway station explosion in the Xinjiang capital of Urumqi.
But it took issue with the limited information provided by China’s government following other deadly incidents that authorities likewise blamed on separatists. Those include the careering of a jeep into a crowd near the portrait of Mao Zedong in Tiananmen Square last October; the three people inside—ethnic Uighurs from Xinjiang–then set the vehicle on fire, according to official Chinese accounts.
“Chinese authorities labeled several incidents of violence involving members of the Uighur minority as acts of terrorism,” said the State Department report. “In general, Chinese authorities did not provide detailed evidence of terrorist involvement, and restricted the ability of journalists and international observers to independently verify official media accounts.”
That view also appeared reflected in the State Department’s official response to the train station incident. Spokeswoman Marie Harf didn’t use the word terror in commenting on it:
“The United States condemns the horrific and despicable acts of violence against innocent civilians at the train station in Urumqi in Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region of China,” she said, using the region’s full official name. ”We offer our condolences and sympathies to the victims, their families, and all of those affected by this tragedy.”
In addition to faulting China for limiting information flow on acts it labels terrorism, the State Department said Beijing often fails to back up public statements in support of international cooperation to combat terrorism.
The U.S. report also charged that recent Chinese legislation widens authorities’ remit to arrest suspects for “endangering state security or crimes of terrorism” and that authority has been used to detain dissidents, human rights activists and religious practitioners.
Such assessments are irresponsible, China’s Foreign Ministry said in response.
“China falls victim of terrorism, and always firmly opposes terrorism in any form and terrorist acts conducted or backed by any person under any name,” Foreign Ministry Spokesman Qin Gang said in a statement published on the ministry’s website shortly after the U.S. report was released  (in Chinese and English).
Despite Beijing’s accusation that the U.S. has a double-standard when it comes to terrorism in China—a criticism repeated by Mr. Qin—Chinese are also conflicted about how to characterize violence with political overtones. Only days after the fiery car crash in Tiananmen Square was labeled terrorism, authorities declined to use the term when a middle-aged Chinese man was arrested for detonating explosives outside a Communist Party building in the city of Taiyuan.
On a tour of Xinjiang this week, Chinese President Xi Jinping spent much of his time signaling he has all the proof he needs about the threat faced by his country. Following the Urumqi explosion, he was quoted by the Xinhua news agency saying the “anti-separatism battle in Xinjiang is long-term, complicated and acute.”
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

In the minds of anti-China bashers on the Internet and among many English language publications, nothing, absolutely nothing China does is just. This attitude can be explained by that:
(a) it's fashionable to be anti-China these days the same way that it was fashionable to hype up the China century when the Chinese economy was running at 10% a year of growth. Commercial journalism has no morality whatsoever, it only concerns with selling newspapers or in these days, attracting eyeballs in order to attract advertisers;
(b) there's a natural inclination for the English speaking part of the world and those Asians who are "wanabe whites" to side with the US in this new global great power struggle. The old guy (The US) wants to keep the new kid on the block from establishing his turf so it's just natural for him to get others to gang up on China.
I wouldn't want to fall for either "for" or "anti-China." It's just a political game people. Don't fall for it. Save your anti-China tirade, go home and hug your kids for goodness sake. The same advice goes to Chinese, don't get too upset and fall into the trap of immoral journalism. Go home, work hard, have fun and hug your kids often.
You say
 “As estimated by some scholars, about 90 million Chinese people died in Mao’s various political movements. This death toll is even more than the total death counts during the Nazi and Japan militarist invasions.”
After the Korean War the US lead SANCTION (20 long years) that killed 60+ million innocent Chinese people (aspirin was difficult to get in that day. Thank goodness for the Chinese herbal medicines, otherwise the death toll will match your quote). Ongoing SANCTION is killing millions of Korean & Iranian innocent peoples.
@on this one the us is right, china is wrong wrote: 10:19 am May 5, 2014
((“first, the author is correct that in china only ethnic minorities are ever called terrorists. a han who attacks people in a school or hospital with a knife is a bad man, but only a uighur who does that is a ‘terrorist’.”))
******************************************
A single HAN is a bad man whose act was not politically motivated, that was an isolated incident.
Attack in railway stations & in Shopping Mall etc by organised gang of UIGHUR’s that has track record of politically motivated and financially supported by CIA, is terrorist/freedom fighter.
@RofLMao wrote: 8:00 am May 5, 2014
((“Yay, there are no terrorists in HK and Taiwan, except in Chicom land.”))
It is because Hong Kong & Taiwan are the international information control center of the CIA that support terrorist/freedom fighter to sabotage China mainland. Should HK & Taiwan lost its status of “control center”, terrorist/freedom fighter will occur in HK or Taiwan. You wait and see.
Washington should not embarass itself and make a fool of itself to the world.
Back on September 11th, 2001, the US also could immediately pinpoint to Muslim terrorist and Beijing didn't insolently say "Prove it!".
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
