2014-04~06
http://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2014/05/1-8-tonnes-of-explosive-material-seized-in-xinjiang/

1.8 tonnes of explosive material seized in Xinjiang - Capital News
By XINHUA, A police officer is seen near a blast scene, which has been cordoned off, in downtown Urumqi on May 22, 2014/XINHUAURUMQI, May 27 – Police in northwestern China’s Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region have seized 1.8 tonnes of material for explosive devices and caught five suspects in a raid, the regional publicity department said Tuesday.
An alleged terror and extremist group led by Abliz Dawut was busted by police in south Xinjiang’s Hotan Prefecture on Monday, the statement from the department said.
Suspects allegedly watched and listened to terror videos and audio and collected material to make explosive devices. The devices were hidden in Hotan.
Abliz and his gang members are suspected of making detonation devices the night after the terror attack on a market in Urumqi on May 22 and premeditating a similar terror attack in crowded locations in Hotan Prefecture, the statement said.
Similar raids were carried out in Aksu, Kashgar and Ili prefectures on Monday, leading to the arrest of a group of suspects allegedly involved in terrorist attacks, the spreading of terror videos and audio, illegal production of explosives and illegal immigration.
Twenty-three terror and religious extremism groups were busted and more than 200 suspects were caught in May in south Xinjiang’s Hotan, Kashgar and Aksu prefectures, the regional public security department said on Sunday.
In 2013, the East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), listed by the United Nations Security Council as a terrorist group, produced 107 terror videos and audio files, some of which were spread to China, according to Nuriman Rozi, a senior police officer with the regional public security department.
Many of the terror suspects caught in recent years were instigated by the terror videos and audio to carry out terrorist activities, he said.
Xinjiang started a one-year campaign against terrorist violence on Friday. The campaign will last until June 2015 with Xinjiang as the major battleground.
HONG KONG, Mar 22 - Coal plants are draining an already dwindling global water supply, Greenpeace warned…
ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast, Mar 22 - Deputy President William Ruto has said there is need to dismantle trade…
NAYPYIDAW, Myanmar, Mar 22 - Aung San Suu Kyi was nominated to join the cabinet in Myanmar's incoming…
WASHINGTON, United States, Mar 22 - Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump exchanged jabs Monday as they separately…
WASHINGTON, United States, Mar 22 - White House hopeful Donald Trump outlined Monday a starkly isolationist…
NAIROBI, Kenya Mar 18 - A 63 year old man was on Friday morning injured by a lion that was sighted on…
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 15 - Imagine developing a condition that takes years to be diagnosed, change of…
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 15 - In the example of his party leader Raila Odinga who said he was unafraid to…
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 16 - A former Nation Media Group editor who was sacked for allegedly flouting procedure…
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 18 - Capital Group Chairman Chris Kirubi has been appointed the Brand Kenya Board…