2014-04~06
http://zeenews.india.com/news/world/china-railway-station-attack-police-nab-one-of-the-suspected-xinjiang-terrorists_930094.html

China railway station attack: Police nab one of the suspected Xinjiang terrorists | Zee News
Beijing: Out of six injured in knife attack at a railway station in China`s Guangzhou, one was reportedly a Westerner, reported the South China Morning Post.
Latest in the string of knife attacks at China`s railway stations staged by Xinjiang separatists, four attackers weilding knives and donning whit hats and shirts went on a stabbing spree, injuring six.
According to the witnesses, those inured were two women, three men and a Westerner who appeared to be in his 50s, reported the South China Morning Post.
Immediately after the attack, one of the attackers was shot at by the police and captured while the other three managed to escape.
In a statement on its official microblog, Guangzhou police bureau stated that one of the assasilants was shot at by the police.
This is third such attack at a Chinese railaway station within last three months.
The attack comes just a week after a terror attack at Urmuqi Railway station in April killed three people, including two attackers and hurt 79.
Urmuqi Railway station attack was preceded by a March attack at a railway station in the southwestern city of Kunming, when the separatist forces in Xinjiang, brandishing knives went on a stabbing-spree slashing to death at least 29 people and wounding 143 in what many called as the country`s "9/11".
Also, last November, Xinjiang terrorists had rammed a car laden with explosives into a crowd at the famous Tiananmen Square, killing five.
Tensions between Chinese and Uighurs have been simmering for years in Xinjiang, particularly since riots in 2009 in Urumqi left nearly 200 people dead. Beijing blames the violence on overseas-based instigators, but has offered little evidence.
Xinjiang is home to the Uighur Muslims. Xinjinag has been restive for the past few years as Uighurs have protested over growing settlements of Han Chinese in the province.    
The militants belonging to the banned East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM, an al-Qaeda linked group have been staging many violent attacks through Xinjiang but very rarely they attack outside the province of Xinjiang.
Maharashtra AG Shreehari Aney resigns over his 'Marathwada statehood' remark
DNA: Analysis of Shashi Tharoor's statement comparing Kanhaiya Kumar with Bhagat Singh