2014-04~06
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/bombing-shows-new-level-militant-sophistication-analysts

Bombing shows new level of militant sophistication: Analysts | TODAYonline
URUMQI (China) — The bombing in western China’s Xinjiang province that killed three people and injured 79 has raised concerns about the apparent sophistication and daring of the attack, possibly timed to coincide with a visit to the Muslim-dominated region by Chinese President Xi Jinping.
The government has blamed the attack on “terrorists”, a term it uses to describe Islamist militants and separatists in Xinjiang who have waged a sometimes violent campaign for an independent East Turkestan state — a campaign that has stirred fears that jihadist groups could become active in western China.
The authorities said yesterday two religious extremists had detonated explosives, near a train station exit, in an apparent suicide bombing. Security is normally very tight at the entrances of railway stations, but exits are often unguarded and crowded.
Mr Pan Zhiping, a professor at Xinjiang University in Urumqi who studies unrest in the region, described the attack as very well organised, saying it could have been planned for Mr Xi’s visit. “It is very clear that they are challenging the Chinese government,” he said. “There was a time last year when they were targeting the public security bureau, the police stations and the troops. Now it’s indiscriminate — terrorist activities are conducted in places where people gather the most.”
The language used by the government to describe the incident implies that it was carried out by Uighurs, the Muslim people who call Xinjiang home, many of whom chafe at government controls on their culture and religion.
Mr Rian Thum, a professor at Loyola University in New Orleans, who specialises in Uighur history and issues, said the use of explosives to target civilians would mark an alarming deviation from previous patterns of Uighur political violence.
“The attack at the Urumqi train station, if it was carried out by Uighurs, suggests an emerging pattern of more civilian targets and violence on a larger scale,’’ he said.
It was also the largest militant attack there since the government blamed Uighurs for stabbing hundreds of Han Chinese with needles in 2009.
No one was killed in the incident, but it led to protests demanding the removal of the region’s top official for failing to protect Han people, China’s majority ethnic group. Earlier that year about 200 people were killed in ethnic riots in Urumqi.
The South Railway Station is a powerful symbol, said Mr Nicholas Bequelin, a senior researcher at New York-based Human Rights Watch who closely follows developments in Xinjiang, as it is where seasonal workers, mainly Han Chinese, arrive from other parts of China to pick cotton. Urumqi is now heavily populated by Han Chinese, who have flooded the capital and other parts of Xinjiang to seek business opportunities. Uighurs have complained that they have been frozen out of the job market.
Mr Pan said the attack could also bolster a more hardline effort by the government to fight terrorism.
“It appears that our intelligence work is still not up to speed,” he said. “But it’s difficult in these circumstances. They are working in the dark and it’ll be hard to completely eliminate (the problem).” Agencies