2014-04~06
http://www.theafricom.com/chinese-state-media-says-113-people-imprisoned-in-the-ethnic-region-of-xinjiang/

Africom | A Newspaper
According to US State Department Spokesperson John Kirby, United States Government offers its deepest sympathy and condolences to the families and friends of the victims of recent attacks in Borno State, More...
According to US State Department Spokesperson John Kirby, United States Government offers its deepest sympathy and condolences to the More...
Media sources report a former UK Olympian, who refused doctors’ advice to abort two of her unborn triplets, gave birth last week More...
Media sources report that five Kano Pillars players have been shot by gunmen in an attack on the club’s entourage as they journeyed More...
It’s been an anxious time for the family and friends of Harrison Ford, who was injured after crashing his vintage plane on More...
A plane from Atlanta dangerously skidded off a runway at New York’s LaGuardia Airport whilst landing Thursday, crashing through More...
Just after his nomination as the ‘Yoruba Man of the Decade’, the Nigerian Prophet T.B. Joshua has received a global acknowledgement More...
 In the four weeks since Bobbi Kristina Brown was found unresponsive in her bathtub, her family has hoped for any sign of improvement More...
John Paul Jackson, an international speaker, author and founder of Streams Ministries International in Flower Mound, Texas, passed More...
A plane from Atlanta dangerously skidded off a runway at New York’s LaGuardia Airport whilst landing Thursday, crashing through a chain-link fence and coming to rest with its’ nose mind-numbingly close to the More...
Media sources report that Denmark continues to remain “shocked to the core” over its’ first double terrorist attack, trying to make sense of killings in a country that rarely sees any deadly violence in its’ More...
Media sources report, Tesco has announced this week the locations of 43 ill-fated stores it plans to close, resulting in around 2,000 employee job losses, as new chief executive, More...
China and the African Union agreed Tuesday on an ambitious plan to develop road, rail and air transport routes to link capitals across the continent. African Union chief Nkosazana More...
Africa’s largest oil producer Nigeria on Sunday announced a cut in petrol prices, a month before the country votes in presidential and parliamentary elections. Oil minister More...
Co-operative bank of Kenya has entered the cashless fare platform, becoming the latest lender to provide the platform as it targets to grow its non-funded income. Dubbed M-Nauli, co-operative More...
Media sources report that five Kano Pillars players have been shot by gunmen in an attack on the club’s entourage as they journeyed to Owerri for the start of the new Nigerian More...
 Police are presently searching for a gang of thugs, believed to be Chelsea fans, who were heard shouting racist chants at a London train station, media sources say.
The incident, More...
According to witnesses and several news outlets, Twenty-two people died as thousands of fans tried to force their way into a Cairo football stadium Sunday to watch a game, triggering More...
Nigerian government of president Goodluck Jonathan came under fire on Sunday over the decision to postpone More...
Zambia Defence Minister Edgar Lungu was sworn in on Sunday as the country’s sixth president. Thousands More...
Media sources report, a UK Christian school in Durham is set More...
The United States troops to return home from Ebola hit West Africa after deployment to help stem the outbreak More...
Y Combinator and Microsoft announced a programme this week that will allow free access to the Azure cloud More...