2014-04~06
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2014/05/15/chinese-officials-head-to-countryside-to-try-to-win-over-locals/

Chinese Officials Head to Countryside to Try to Win Over Locals - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
Half a century after millions of city dwellers, including China’s current president, Xi Jinping, were ordered to the countryside to learn more about serving the masses, some officials are once again being armed with spades and sent out to the villages.
Some 200,000 officials in Xinjiang, the western region of China that has seen a rising tide of unrest, will be sent to live in rural areas over the next three years, the Global Times reported this week. So far, the paper reports, more than 70,000 have already arrived.
So many officials are on rural sabbatical that those left behind have complained of the extra workload, the paper said.
The program is aimed at winning the hearts and minds of local people, particularly Uighurs, a mainly Muslim ethnic group that has a fraught relationship with Chinese authorities. Officials have been helping villagers with tasks such as farm work, clearing land and planting trees.
Things in Xinjiang have been heating up since 2009 riots in the regional capital of Urumqi killed 197, according to government figures, followed by a drip-feed of further violence. As recently as last week, a police vehicle was attacked in Aksu, in western Xinjiang. One attacker was shot dead by police and a second captured, according to state media.
Michael Clarke, a research fellow at Australia’s Griffith University, said the move to woo Xinjiang’s villagers is the largest of its kind that the Chinese Communist Party has launched in recent decades. Though similar efforts have also been undertaken in Tibet, notably in 2011, when more than 20,000 officials were sent to the region, they weren’t on the same scale.
“It’s a way to try and get officialdom in particular connected to a certain segment of the Uighur population—a rural population that hasn’t been connected in a significant way for many years,” said Mr. Clarke, noting that the campaign has sent many officials to southern Xinjiang, an area he describes as being more strongly rooted in Islamic traditionalism.
Zhao Jiangtao, a Han Chinese official based in Urumqi, told the Global Times he wanted to understand what motivated terror attacks. He signed up for a rural sojourn and was posted to a remote village 70 miles from Aksu.
The officials have been roughing it, living in communal dormitories and growing their own food. Some can only shower once a week because of a shortage of water, the Global Times said.
They are highly strung when it comes to security. Officials have been instructed not to go out in the evening, and to move in groups of three or more, even in the daytime. They are accompanied by armed police when they visit villagers, the paper said. That gives some sense of the siege mentality in the remoter parts of Xinjiang.
The gulf between the city and countryside is deep everywhere in China, reinforced by the country’s policy architecture. Residence permits, or hukou, are widely flouted but still create barriers to internal migration by denying newcomers access to benefits like schooling and health care. Many rural people move to the cities and put in a few years of low-paid work before heading back home. The government says it wants to reform the system, but progress has been slow.
The urban-rural divide is even deeper in Xinjiang, where different ethnic groups don’t even share a common language. Most of the Uighurs in Mr. Zhao’s village don’t speak Chinese, the Global Times said. The officials, who had to communicate through “body language and eye contact,” presumably don’t speak Uighur either.
Claims That U.S. Soybeans Cause Infertility Stoke China’s GMO Battle
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

Will produce the exact opposite effect. Officials that cannot speak the language, not trained in intercultural dialogue, going with armed police? Great way to stir up further problem.
To Yolvas Tiger, don't insult the Germans please. The Chinese treatment of Uyghur is far worse than anything humanity has ever seen. Germany produced Noble winning scientists and billionaries, whereas Chinese destroyed Uyghur's asperation to become modern, democratic, secular and prosperous nation. Now we have extremely impoverished population at the mercy of Chinese aristocrats. People compares China to USA and Germany out of total ignorance. God bless Uyghur! I hope all Uyghurs will be able to run out of the "Xinjiang Uyghur Concentration Camp" and become part of western civilization. Even the Hitler of the West is million times better than the Chinese.
Chinese officials finally drop off the modern farming tools to Xinjiang farmers as promised!
Russians decided not to send the Americans to the space no more. Who is gonna take over the task?
How much radioactive contaminants are in the soil there from the atmospheric nuclear tests?
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
