2014-04~06
http://freepressjournal.in/beijing-to-crack-down-on-islamic-militias-in-xinjiang/

Beijing to crack down on Islamic militias in Xinjiang | Freepress Journal
Beijing : Bracing for a long battle against Islamist militants in Xinjiang, China has said it will harshly crack down on terror attacks and maintain lasting stability in the troubled province bordering Afghanistan and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.
The stability of Xinjiang is strategically vital to China’s reform and development as well as its national security, said a statement released after a meeting of the Politburo of the CPC Central Committee, chaired by President Xi Jinping, who is also general secretary of the committee. China will harshly crack down on terror attacks and maintain lasting stability in Xinjiang, the central leadership of the ruling CPC said.
Xi, regarded as the most powerful ruler of China, holds all the three key posts of president, leader of the CPC and head of the military besides heading the recently formed National Security Council.
Earlier, the local Xinjiang Party has called for a “people’s war” against the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), the al-Qaeda-affiliated outfit that has been blamed for a number of terror attacks in China including last week’s bombings in a busy street in Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang.
All party members should perceive the timeliness and complexity of the acute anti-separatist struggle in Xinjiang and better understand the importance and urgency of maintaining local stability, the CPC statement said.

Next Article »
GAIL Q4 net zooms 57% to Rs 972 cr



 
 
 
 Unless there is some hidden design behind it, the two-day deliberations of the BJP’s national executive meeting underlined a twin-track… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 Maybe it’s a problem of existing in our own ‘safety zones’—used these days as a synonym for ideological bubble. Maybe… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 If some medicines are found ‘harmful’ or even useless to consumers, the government or the apex drug regulator is within… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 Dr. Sanjay Deshmukh, vice chancellor of Mumbai University, speaks of the many paradigm shifts that are now needed. Shraddha Kamdar… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 A couple of years ago, we had published an article that essentially reproducted an email sent to us by valued… 

 Read more…  


Copyright © 2016 . All Rights Reserved. Maintained by Designwell Infotech