2014-04~06
http://www.economist.com/news/world-week/21603126-politics-week

Politics this week | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
Europe’s populist parties caused an earthquake at the polls, allowing them to take around 30% of seats in the new European Parliament. France’s Front National won25% of the votes, Britain’s UK Independence Party scored 27.5%, the Danish People’s Party secured 26.6% and far-left Syriza in Greece took home 26.5%—all beating their countries’ governing parties and promising to fight for sweeping changes. Mainstream parties held their ground in some countries, including Italy, where Matteo Renzi’s Democrats won 40.8% of the vote and Germany, where Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats won 35.3%. In the Netherlands, Geert Wilders’s populist Party for Freedom failed to follow his allies in other countries, coming third with 13.2%. See article
Jean-Claude Juncker’s hopes of a smooth ride to become the new European Commission president were dashed when his presumed backer, Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, decided to hedge her bets. Brussels is bracing for long negotiations over the EU’s new leadership. See article
Billionaire Petro Poroshenko, known as the chocolate king, was elected as Ukraine’s new president. His leadership was immediately tested when militants seized a terminal of Donetsk airport, in the east of the country. On May 26th dozens of pro-Russia separatists plus a number of civilians were killed after Ukrainian security forces launched an assault to take back the airport. It was the deadliest outbreak of violence in the city thus far. See article
Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, Egypt’s former defence minister who organised the coup last July that overthrew the previously elected president, Muhammad Morsi, was himself elected head of state. Supporters of Mr Morsi’s Muslim Brotherhood boycotted the poll. Preliminary results gave Mr Sisi 92% to his sole opponent’s 4%, but turnout was dismally low. See article
Mali’s defence minister, who later resigned, said that 50 soldiers had been killed and 900 had surrendered in a vain attempt to recapture the town of Kidal, which Tuareg rebels had taken a week before. See article
Jacob Zuma was re-elected South Africa’s president by the country’s new parliament, a fortnight after his ruling African National Congress had won another five-year mandate with 62% of the vote. See article
Nine days after Malawi’s presidential elections, the results had not been formally announced by the electoral commission, due to alleged irregularities and a string of court challenges. Unofficial preliminary results suggested that the incumbent, Joyce Banda, had lost.
The Nigerian authorities said they now knew the location of the 270-odd schoolgirls kidnapped a month ago by extreme Islamists, but would not divulge where they were or how they would be freed.
In Venezuela the wives of two imprisoned mayors won elections for their husbands’ posts. Patricia Gutierrez (pictured) won the city of San Cristobal, while Rosa Brandonisio won in San Diego. The men, part of the opposition to President Nicolás Maduro, were convicted of failing to dismantle protesters’ barricades and for allegedly encouraging rebellion.
Juan Manuel Santos, the incumbent, narrowly lost the first round of Colombia’s presidential election to Óscar Iván Zuluaga, a protégé of the former president, Álvaro Uribe. See article
Subcomandante Marcos, long-time head of Mexico’s Zapatista rebels, announced that he was stepping down as the group’s spokesman. The Zapatistas staged a brief armed rebellion in 1994. 
Police in the north-western Chinese region of Xinjiang said that they had detained more than 200 suspects following a spate of attacks, including a “terror group” of five with explosives. Chinese media reported that 55 people, thought to be ethnic Uighurs, had been paraded through a stadium in front of 7,000 spectators having been convicted of various crimes.
The leaders of a military coup in Thailand received royal endorsement several days after they seized power. They say they want to return the country to stability after months of political turmoil. The army says it has released 124 people, who were detained after the coup, including the former prime minister, Yingluck Shinawatra. See article
An influential faction of the Pakistani Taliban split from the umbrella organisation, blaming ideological differences. A spokesman for the Mehsud tribe said that it considers the bombing of public places, extortion and kidnappings to be un-Islamic and so could no longer co-operate.
On May 28th Barack Obama outlined his vision for when and why America should use military force. In future, he said, America must be sure that its wars do not “create more enemies than we take off the battlefield”. Earlier the president had visited Afghanistan to address some of the 32,000 American troops still stationed there. He laid out plans for their withdrawal: all but a tiny guard for the American embassy will be gone by the end of 2016. See article
America’s Supreme Court ruled that states could not rely solely on an IQ test to determine whether a murderer is too mentally disabled to be executed. Florida, which uses a cut-off of 70 IQ points, was planning to execute Freddie Lee Hall, who scored 71.
Tea Party candidates beat establishment Republicans in primaries in Texas. David Dewhurst, the state’s lieutenant governor during more than a decade of robust economic growth, lost to Daniel Patrick, who accused him of being insufficiently flinty. See article
Maya Angelou, author, poet and human-rights activist, died on May 28th, aged 86. Her 1969 autobiography “I Know Why The Caged Bird Sings” was a huge bestseller and is widely taught in American schools. See article
On the same day Malcolm Glazer, a billionaire businessman and sports-club owner, died aged 85. Mr Glazer is remembered fondly in Tampa Bay, for turning the struggling Buccaneers into Super Bowl winners, but rather differently in Manchester: the impressive haul of trophies won after his controversial takeover of United came at a high cost—saddling it with £500m of debt.
Asian business is reforming. Its emerging multinationals will change the way we all live
Europe’s leaders need to cut the power of Brussels in many areas, but in some they need to extend...
How to hand over $272 billion a year to criminals
As well as pacifying separatists and dealing with Russia, Petro Poroshenko must remake Ukraine’s...
Abdel Fattah al-Sisi must change course—or risk the fate of his predecessors
The president explains what America should do with its armed forces
If the rules were simpler, defrauding Medicare would be harder
Buffalo Thunder teaches black kids that, with hard work, they can live high on a Hog
The protest movement that shook Brazil last year has not died. But it is unlikely to disrupt the...
The real subject of Colombia’s presidential vote is not running
The travails of the children of Haitian migrants in the Dominican Republic
Mexico may pay a high price for Enrique Peña Nieto’s failure to discourage the informal economy
As crackdown follows coup, the generals may stick around for as long as they think it takes to...
Forming his new government, Narendra Modi appears to be in a hurry
Some American forces will stay on in Afghanistan. But not for long
For the first time, a proper debate is starting about immigration
As our bureau chief leaves China, he reflects on the crushing of the protests he witnessed 25 years...
The humiliation of Mali’s army and government is a rude reminder that the wider region is still a...
Why so many Africans still risk their lives to reach Europe
A bloated administration seems unlikely to revive a shrinking economy
Sierra Leone bucks a west African trend by celebrating its religious tolerance
President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi fails to bring enough voters to the ballot box
The beautiful game provides a rare space for candour and criticism
The impact of the rise of anti-establishment parties, in Europe and abroad
Voters legitimise a new party as the voice of the anti-euro right
Love for an historic field and loathing for a mayor drive Berliners to the polls
The success of Danish Eurosceptics leaves the mainstream in disarray
Petro Poroshenko has been elected president. Now he has some dreadful problems
The messy struggle to find a new president of the European Commission
Can UKIP keep on coming? The answer could decide the next election
Alex Salmond’s long-term forecasts for an independent Scotland look far too optimistic
Britain is bad at attracting Chinese tourists, but good at taking their money
The Labour Party’s leader, and favourite to win the next election, has had a rotten few weeks
Campaigns to set pay floors are spreading, though not all will succeed
Over the past two decades Asia’s companies have enjoyed huge success. But now they need to reform...
A handful of Asian conundrums the world’s boardrooms should chew over
State firms and family conglomerates are Asia’s favourite kinds of companies. Both must change
China Mobile, a state-owned giant, is having to reinvent itself
A long-established African firm went global, only to find the fastest-growing market was on its...
An international gas market is developing. Buyers will gain more than sellers
China uses a cyber-security row with America to boost national champions
Google is miles ahead of its rivals in the race for autonomous motoring
New global rules aim to make it harder for firms to fib about their revenues
Paying a single price for meals, drinks and a room is fashionable again
The latest tie-up between messaging apps and broader online firms
One of Britain’s leading businessmen urges firms to become more gay-friendly
Whether they are in it for a quick buck or the long haul, foreign investors are helping Europe’s...
Italy’s inclusion of illicit activities in its figures excites much interest
The latest controversy around Thomas Piketty’s blockbuster book concerns its statistics
One of the components of red wine protects against tooth decay
It may be possible to stimulate decayed teeth to repair themselves
Twenty-five years after the bloodshed in Beijing, new details keep emerging
Prince Rupert zu Loewenstein, financial adviser to the Rolling Stones, died on May 20th, aged 80
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more