2014-04~06
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/2408/20140518/group-behind-urumqi-knife-suicide-bombing-attack-identified.htm

Group Behind Urumqi Knife and Suicide Bombing Attack Identified : Society : Chinatopix
Policemen guarding the South Railway Station in Urumqi.(Photo : Photo/CNS)
China has identified the East Turkestan Islamic Movement as the group responsible for the terror attack in Urumqi that killed three people and injured 79 others in April.
The group was responsible for the knife and suicide bomb attack in the Xinjiang Uyghar autonomous region capital, according to Chinese authorities who released the information on Sunday.
The attack in Urumqi was said to have been planned outside the country by Ismail Yusup, an ETIM member, who reportedly ordered 10 people in Xinjiang to launch the attack.
The attack at the South Railway Station happened around 7:10 PM on April 30 after the 10 men finished setting off explosives in the area. They also stabbed people using knives at the exit of the train station.
Mob members Saderdin Sawut and Memetabudula Ete were killed during the explosion while eight other members of the mob were arrested.
Based on police investigations, the main members of the group began spreading the doctrine of Islamic extremism in 2005. Ismail Yusup joined ETIM in 2013 and had gone in hiding after authorities ordered him pursued for a series of bombing activities he pulled off.
Chinese police have been working with the International Criminal Police Organzition to find Yusup.
A video of ETIM’s message claiming responsibility for the attack at Urumqi train station was also retrieved.
ETIM said their organization is supported by al-Qaeda and that they aim to fight for the autonomy of Xinjiang. The group has also been linked to recent terror attacks around the country, including the attacks at Kunming and Guangzhou train stations.
There is little known information about ETIM. However, reports said the group has been spreading its wings in Xinjiang province, which is home to a large number of Muslim Uygur natives.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent rumors have emerged that Sacramento Kings All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins could finally move to the Los Angeles Lakers in the summer following his recent comments about the Hollywood squad’s young players after the two team’s recent game. read more