2014-04~06
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2014/04/25/spot-beard-get-paid-china-offers-money-for-informants-in-xinjiang/

Spot Beard, Get Paid: China Offers Money for Informants in Xinjiang - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
Authorities in northwest China are offering rewards for anyone who informs on their neighbors for having too much facial hair.
Officials in Shaya county, Xinjiang, have listed beards among the “potential hazards to society” residents should look out for and report to the government as part of a new campaign.
According to the state-run Global Times, the campaign is offering rewards ranging from 50 yuan to up to 50,000 yuan for “a wide range of intelligence from those wearing beards to spreading information to topple the authorities.” Rewards will also be on offer for tipoffs on news of foreigners traveling through the county, as well as people conducting “illegal religious activities.”
Official disapproval of facial hair is nothing new in Xinjiang, a western region that abuts Central Asia, contains significant oil reserves and is home to large numbers of Uighurs, a traditionally Muslim ethnic group.
A 2012 report from the U.S. Congressional-Executive Commission on China, for example, found that campaigns to try and prevent Muslims in the region from wearing overly bushy beards or—in the case of women—covering their hair with scarves are increasing. Many Muslims wear beards as an indication of their faith. In some cases, the commission said, recipients of welfare benefits in the province had to agree not to wear veils or large beards in order to receive welfare benefits.
Tensions between Uighurs and the Han Chinese majority have often run high in Xinjiang, and boiled over into ethnic violence in 2009 when nearly 200 people were killed and more than 1,000 injured in the regional capital of Urumqi. Xinjiang separatists were also said to be behind a brutal March train station attack in the southwestern city of Kunming that left 33 dead.
Though Xinjiang has a significant population of Uighurs, increasing numbers of Han Chinese have also been drawn to the region in recent years to take part in the region’s booming economy.
China’s government typically blames ethnic violence on separatist groups with links to al Qaeda. Uighur activists overseas, however, cite concern over restrictions on religious practices, as well as frustration with the large waves of Han Chinese that have moved to a region Uighurs consider their homeland.
This week’s anti-beard campaign aside, for its part, the government maintains that the ethnic minority’s rights are protected, including expressions of faith. “There is no such thing as a ban on public displays of Islamic practice in Xinjiang or anywhere else in the country,” the government’s English-language mouthpiece China Daily said in a commentary last year. “Freedom of religious beliefs and practices are respected and protected throughout the country.”
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

They should ask for human rights of open voting/talking/press/religion/race/investigation in front of the ccp to gain more siders as much as possible,then islam can live like a normal religion,share power with others or get crushed by huger one man/party systems.
One man/party systems can be based on any fancy words like communism,all gods but it cant base on open comparing environments of human rights of open voting/talking/press/religion/race/investigation.
Most human beings brain comparing functions will accept facts,better things in open comparing environments in fronts imaginations,worse things in long term,remember?
The ccp runs one man/party system with gungs that crushes opposite side human made political forms based on human rights of open voting/talking/press/religion/race/investigation in long term,now it is weak in the earth level in front of USA/EU guns,wait to get power from USA/EU peacefully just like Hitler that gained power from Germany democratic system peacefully:)
USA learned a lot of low iq strategy from China like fearing enemies get cornered/crushed no matter what-.-that strategy is for ones aint believing it to get away from low iq enemies when they are weak,and strike low iq enemies hard when they are stronger.
The ccp beats the cnp that holds much better conditions by simply running when they are weak and uniting more with fancy words,then strike the cnp very hard that drives it out of huge China then simply keeps holding one man/party system no matter what to beat ones believing in fancy words and short candies to ignore one man/party systems are good at developing human beings bad natures.
USA low iq?
moving with lesser conditions,stop when having better conditions in front of killer level opposite side one man/party like the ccp,that is suicide in long term in the earth level.
how to beat one man/party systems just what USA has been doing at home,establishing human rights of open voting/talking/press/religion/race/investigation with stronger guns on the earth scale level.
As for small countries?
just like individuals,cant afford get divided in front of one man/party systems in long term.
As usual WSJ propaganda misinforms what the article is saying. It is only paying for information concerning separatist activities, not people with beards.
How is this going to solve anything?? In my opinion its it puerile way of solving what ever problem is going on in Xinjiang..
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
