2014-04~06
http://www.afr.com/p/world/china_railway_station_blast_injures_JAv7PHJBYs3x6kWY5OtfMM

China railway station blast injures 79 | afr.com

 For full functionality of this site it is necessary to enable JavaScript.
 Here are the 
 instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.

Shanghai Chinese President 
 
 Xi Jinping
 is facing a growing terrorist threat, after the country’s fourth attack in seven months killed three people and injured 79 on Wednesday night.
The attack took place at the Urumqi South Railway Station in Xinjiang, just as Mr Xi was concluding a four-day trip to the restive western province.
In response to the attacks, Mr Xi said the government would pursue a “strike first" approach towards terrorism.
According to China’s state media, a small bomb was detonated at 7.10pm local time on Wednesday, just as a train was pulling into the station.
At the same time a group wielding knives attacked those on the platform. The death toll is likely to rise as ­authorities said four people were in a serious condition.
“I don’t think it’s a coincidence that someone would choose to do this at the time [Mr] Xi was visiting," said David Brophy, a Xinjiang expert who lectures in Chinese history at the University of Sydney. But Mr Brophy said there was no evidence that the attack was carried out by a group with high-level links to international terrorist groups.
“It looks like a low-level local group, perhaps frustrated at the increasingly repressive measures being used by China," he said.
China has increasingly strengthened security in Xinjiang since riots between ethnic Uighurs and the majority Han Chinese left at least 200 people dead in July 2009.
Since that time the province’s annual internal security budget has been increased four-fold to 6.1 billion yuan ($1.07 billion).
Half of Xinjiang’s 22 million people are Uighurs, an ethnic Turkic group, who have long complained about the lack of job opportunities, ­discrimination and Beijing’s heavy-handed security presence.
After the attack President Xi said “resolute measures" would be taken to crush “violent terrorists".
“[The authorities] must have a ­profound understanding that the anti-terrorist, anti-separatist struggles in Xinjiang will be long term, complicated and intense," the official Xinhua news agency quoted Mr Xi as saying.
“We must not relax for one moment in our fight against violence and terrorism, and must take resolute measures to crush the audacious terrorists," he is reported to have said.
Wednesday’s violence was eerily similar to a knife attack that occurred at the Kunming Railway station in March, which left 33 people dead including four of the assailants.
The sharp escalation of violence is being seen as a direct challenge to the Communist Party, which often claims only its firm hand can maintain order in a country of 1.3 billion people.
These increasingly violent attacks began on October 28 last year with a car bombing near Beijing’s Tiananmen Square. That attack, which killed five people and injured a further 38, led to a major crackdown by Chinese security forces in Xinjiang.
It is thought that up to 100 people have been killed since in clashes across Xinjiang between Uighur groups and security forces.
On November 6, a blast outside the Communist Party’s head office in Shaanxi Province killed two people and injured 14. It was blamed on a local citizen.
Unlimited access to business news and market insights across any device