2014-04~06
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/3169/20140616/three-sentenced-death-tiananmen-square-gate-attack.htm

Three Sentenced To Death for Tiananmen Square Gate Attack : World : Chinatopix
Public trial on June 16, 2014 sentencing three people to death for the Tiananmen Square Gate attack.(Photo : Reuters / CCTV / via Reuters TV)
Three people linked to the deadly attack in Tiananmen Square last October that resulted in the deaths of two innocent bystanders were sentenced to death on Monday, CCTV media reported.
Last October 28, three people rammed a gate in Tiananmen gate that injured 40 civilians, killed a Chinese and a Philippine tourist, as well as the three attackers - the driver, his wife and his mother-in-law, Yahoo news has learned.
The three sentenced to death identified as Yusup Ahmat, Yusup Umarniyaz and Husanjan Wuxur, were charged for organizing a terrorist group and endangering public security.
Five other suspects linked to the incident were charged with joining a terrorist group and endangering public security. One was sentenced to life while the remaining four were sentenced to serve prison terms ranging from five to 20 years.
The suspects had reportedly gone to Beijing to raise money from supporters to acquire firearms, explosives, a jeep and gasoline, state-media said.
The public trial was attended by some 400 people with captured footage showing some Uighur women crying while the trial was ongoing.
The attack had been the first to hit Beijing in recent years and was followed by a other terrorist attacks in Xinjiang. On May 22, terrorists had thrown explosives in a crowded market area in Urumqi that killed 39 people. In March, some 29 people were stabbed to death at train station in Kunming.
To maintain control over the crisis in the province, China launched an anti-terrorist campaign which some have labeled as too restrictive as well as raising questions on violation of human rights like the mass sentencing in Xinjiang stadium last month.
Beijing claims the terrorists are Muslim Uighurs who are native to the Xinjiang province and comprise a major part of the Xinjiang population. It is alleged that the separatists call for the establishment of a separate state in Xinjiang to be called East Turkestan, Reuters reported.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent rumors have emerged that Sacramento Kings All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins could finally move to the Los Angeles Lakers in the summer following his recent comments about the Hollywood squad’s young players after the two team’s recent game. read more