2014-04~06
http://www.travelerstoday.com/articles/9637/20140426/hazardous-beards-bushy-china-potential-terrorist-giveaways-chinese-authorities-giving.htm

Hazardous Beards?: Bushy Beards In China Can Be Potential Terrorist Giveaways, Chinese Authorities Are Giving Away $8000 For People Who Report The Beards : News : TravelersToday
Hazardous beards? in China have been trending on the internet lately since the country labelled unusually long beards as hazardous. Hazardous beards?, these two words may have been impossible to be put together before, but recently in China, it seems that this is not the case. Extremely long beards have just been labeled hazardous beards? in China, and the country is now offering a large sum for people ratting out the alleged dangerous beards.
So, what exactly makes dangerous these hazardous beards? The alleged unsafe, hazardous beards? in China have recently made the watchdog list of other potential terrorist giveaways. These hazardous beards? constitute those beards which are apparently excessively long.
China now considers these lengthy beards as hazardous beards? because the alleged act of growing out a beard has been seen suspicious by the country and included in with other offenses like "separatism preaching," "training for terror attacks" and provoking "conflicts between religious sects."
On Friday, UPI reported that clean-shaven citizens can benefit in China by becoming more watchful of these bushy, hazardous beards? Long-grown hazardous beards? may now just be as profit-wielding as it is dangerous. According to the UPI report, people who tell on people with the lengthy, hazardous beards? can gain and pocket an equivalent of up to $8,000.
According to officials in the western China region of Xinjiang, they are prepared to offer the large cash reward to whistle blowers for information about "a wide range of intelligence from those wearing beards to spreading information to topple the authorities."
The Chinese government is reportedly collecting the information on the hazardous beards? in order to prevent and combat crimes and maintain social stability. The citizen alert initiative on hazardous beards? has been termed "spot beard - get paid".
So how much do tattlers get paid for telling on men with hazardous beards? The citizens who can report on the hazardous beards? can get 50 yuan up to 50,000 yuan, that's $8 dollars to around $8,000.
Meanwhile, some people are sceptical as to the true nature of calling these beards truly hazardous beards?, and are wondering about the connection of these beards to actual terrorism. This may be explained in a report by the Wall Street Journal which says that the disapproval of these extreme-length facial hair, or hazardous beards?, can be linked to potential Muslim extremism. There already are reported Chinese Muslims in the region in China who are discouraged from "wearing overly bushy beards or-in the case of women-covering their hair with scarves."
But as it is, Muslims wear beards in accordance to their faith. It may well be supposed that these hazardous beards? can pose a danger to faith. Many people - Muslims and non-Muslims - are now calling the new and "unwritten" beard ban initiative as a form of racial profiling.
In the Xinjiang area in China, extremist Muslim minority group Uighur, has been blamed for recent terrorist attacks. Officials have since then been on alert and have supposed that these alleged hazardous beards? are linked to terrorism.
Just last October, three Uighur members drove a car into Beijing's Tienanmen Square and allegedly killed two tourists. More recently, March produced a stabbing episode in the southwestern city of Kunming, Xinjiang, done by Uighur radicals. This act of terrorism reportedly killed 30 people, and thus the hazardous beards? presumption as dangerous.
"However, the opposition and rights groups say authorities are greatly exaggerating the threat to justify the ulterior agenda of establishing stricter control and regulation on Uighurs. The rights group strongly believes that religious and cultural restrictions may soon start being enforced once identification begins."
The Herald Live meanwhile reports that China has blamed the violence on "separatists with ties to foreign terrorist groups, while rights groups say authorities exaggerate the threat to justify religious and cultural restrictions on Uighurs". This caused the hazardous beards?, anti-beard initiative by the Chinese government.
Hazardous beards? may or may not be a form of racial and religion discrimination. Despite apparent signs of racial profiling, the Chinese government reportedly denied any ethnic transgressions and said that minority rights are protected in the country. China Daily said in a commentary last year, "There is no such thing as a ban on public displays of Islamic practice in Xinjiang or anywhere else in the country. Freedom of religious beliefs and practices are respected and protected throughout the country."
Get to know your credit card to know how to score up perks on your next travel trip.
Here are few ways on how keen explorers can score lounge access regardless of the possibility that their tickets read coach.
Don't be that person who annoys others passengers in airports, be airport ready with these tips.
Reasons and tips why travelling solo is what every traveller needs to try.