2014-04~06
http://news2.onlinenigeria.com/news/general/356704-china-arrests-suspected-market-attackers.html

China arrests suspected market attackers - OnlineNigeria News
Authorities in China say they have held a suspect over Thursday’s attack on a market in Urumqi in Xinjiang province in which 39 people died.
The man was held in Bayingolin prefecture, to the south of Urumqi. The other four suspects died in the attack, officials told Xinhua.
The authorities have announced a one-year campaign against militant violence in Xinjiang province, home to the Muslim Uighur minority.
Two vehicles drove into crowds at a market in Urumqi and threw explosives in Thursday’s attack. One of the vehicles then blew up.
Previous reports had suggested all five suspects had died in the attack.
Xinhua quoted police as saying the men took part in “illegal religious activities” and “watched and listened to terrorist violence video and audio materials”.
Xinjiang has seen a spate of attacks in recent years.
Beijing has blamed these – and other recent mass-casualty attacks – on Uighur separatists.
These include an attack in Beijing, where a car ploughed into pedestrians in Tiananmen Square, killing five people, and attacks at railway stations in Urumqi and Kunming.
China says it is pouring money into the Xinjiang region, but some Uighurs say their traditions and freedoms are being crushed.

 Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has declared that no official of the Independent national Electoral Commission (INEC) has powers to cancel results already declared by ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Senator Rowland Owie has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to order the release of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu.
In a ...
 
 
 Full story 


  • PDP wins eight state constituencies, one House seat, APC victorious in one constituency 
• Wike, Peterside’s security aides in shootout, one killed 
• Amaechi, governor clash ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has opened up on how much he met in Nigeria's treasury when he assumed office as President in 1999.
According to TRENT ...
 


 The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), on Monday, announced the death of a corps member, Okonta Samuel, with call-up number RV/15B/5539, during the re-run elections ...
 


 y Jimitota Onoyume, Dapo Akinrefon, Charles Kumolu, Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Davies Iheanachor & Rotimi Ojomoyela PORT-HARCOURT— THE orgy of violence, which characterised Saturday’s re-run polls for ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Ade Adesomoju, Abuja
The Supreme Court has affirmed the election of Mr. Darius Ishaku of the Peoples Democratic Party as Governor of Taraba State.
In a unanimous ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Embattled leader of the Indigenous People of Bifra, IPOB, and Director of Radio Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, has accused the Department of State Services, DSS, of ...
 
 
 Full story 


 – Police arrested Yunusa Adamu Dangwani, the chief of staff to former governor of Kano state Rabiu Kwankwaso
– Dangwani and other political associates of Kwankwaso ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Professor Yakubu Muktar has been appointed as the new Vice Chancellor, Yobe State University to replace former Vice Chancellor, Professor Musa Alabe following what was ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Gov. Nyesom Wike of Rivers said on Sunday that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would win Saturday’s re-run legislative elections in the state because it ...
 
 
 Full story 


 – Photographer sues 2face Idibia and his wife Annie
– He demands for a sum of N120 million as damage
– 2face and Annie Idibia has responded ...
 
 
 Full story 


 – Samson Siasia has picked just six home-based Super Eagles for the clash with Egypt 
– Arsenal star Alex Iwobi is the first foreign based Eagles star ...
 
 


 – Sam Okpodu has been confirmed as the new Ikorodu United coach
– Benson Edema is now the assistant coach
– The new coach is expected to ...
 
 


 – Chris Green says Nigeria is not scared of Egypt despite their players superb form in Europe
– The NFF technical committee member believes the Super Eagles ...
 
 


 Ex-Super Eagles coach, Sunday Oliseh, has hit out at the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) for shifting focus from the upcoming 2017 Africa Cup of Nations ...
 
 


 Manchester United manager Louis van Gaal and assistant manager Ryan Giggs. Photo: Action Images via Reuters




 
LONDON — Beleaguered Manchester United manager Louis van Gaal has ...
 
 


 Tottenham's Dele Alli in action with Borussia Dortmund's Henrikh Mkhitaryan. Photo: Reuters




 
LONDON — Dele Alli has told his Tottenham Hotspur team-mates to forget their chastening ...
 
 


 Popular musician and one half of the Psquare duo, Paul Okoye, has spoken up as to why his brother Jude, should not be blamed for ...
 
 


 Manchester United manager, Louis Van Gaal, has admitted that the Manchester derby is a must win for his team.
A win against City will enhance United's ...
 
 


 The Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), a coalition of over 400 civil society organizations, weekend, discribed the recent shady recruitment exercise conducted by the Central Bank ...
 
 
