2014-04~06
http://www.shanghaidaily.com/article/article_xinhua.aspx?id=220149

China briefs foreign security attaches on Xinjiang attack | Shanghai Daily
Follow us @  | Shanghai Call Center: 962288 |  Mobile Version  |  THU, APR 18, 2013
BEIJING, May 23 (Xinhua) -- China's Ministry of Public Security (MPS) on Friday briefed 33 foreign security attaches from 29 countries on the attack in Xinjiang that left 31 dead and more than 90 injured.
Foreign security attaches from countries including the United States, Russia and New Zealand were shown videos and pictures of the explosion scenes.
According to a statement by the MPS, China made it clear that the attack is of an extremely despicable nature, wreaking tremendous havoc on lives and property. The crime has exposed terrorists' anti-human, anti-social and anti-civilization nature.
By audaciously challenging the bottom line of human civilization, terrorists have committed crimes which cannot be condoned by any country upholding the rule of law, or any person with a conscience, and they deserve vehement condemnation by the Chinese people as well as the international community, according to the statement.
The MPS expressed willingness to keep close communication with law-enforcement authorities of all countries, and boost cooperation in intelligence sharing and other fronts, to prevent and combat any forms of terrorism.
Foreign attendees of the briefing condemned the attack and pledged support to China in the investigation.
Blake Wirth, assistant attache of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Beijing Office, expressed sympathies to victims and their families, adding "the FBI and the U.S. government pledge support to China to assist in any means possible" in the fight against terror.
Explosions that rocked an open air market in Urumqi, capital of northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, on Thursday morning have left 31 dead and more than 90 injured.
Two vehicles broke through roadside fences and plowed into the crowd, and explosive devices were set off.

Education, 
 Entertainment and culture, Environment,
 Expat community, 
 Health and science, Society, 
 In-depth, Services...

Art and culture, 
 Community, Education, 
 Animal planet, Travel...

Book, City Scene,
 Film, Home and design,
 Now and Then, Style,
 Technology, The Week...

 Copyright © 1999- Shanghai Daily. All rights reserved.Preferably
 viewed with Internet Explorer 8 or newer browsers.
