2014-04~06
http://ajw.asahi.com/article/views/editorial/AJ201505230033

EDITORIAL: Pu's captivity a prime example of China's crackdown on rights - AJW by The Asahi Shimbun
The Chinese authorities indicted lawyer Pu Zhiqiang, a well-known human rights defender living in Beijing, earlier this month. It is an unjust action against a conscientious lawyer, and we demand that the Chinese government release Pu immediately.
The 50-year-old Pu was prosecuted for “stirring up racial enmity” and “inciting a public disturbance,” according to an announcement by the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau. It is believed that Pu’s blog postings, in particular, provoked the authorities to make the move.
Pu has criticized Beijing’s policy toward Uighurs, a minority ethnic group living in inland China, saying the Chinese government treats the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region as if it were a “colony.” He has also voiced doubts about China’s claim to the disputed Senkaku Islands, describing Beijing's sovereignty claim on the islands under Japan’s effective control as “unreasonable.”
There are also critics in China of the action against Pu. They say he should not be charged with any crime.
The only possible interpretation of the move against Pu is that the authorities have been aiming to silence him from the beginning.
Pu is known for his successful campaign against the country’s “correction through labor” system, in which government agencies could arbitrarily detain citizens without trial and subject them to forced labor. The program was finally abolished in 2013 after years of Pu’s criticism against it.
Pu has also served as the defense lawyer for persecuted opinion leaders in cases of suppression of free speech. Given his track records as a human rights activist, it is clear that he deeply understands the importance of freedom of speech.
Pu is a leading figure in China’s rights defense movement and has been working hard to protect the human rights of many people.
Persecution of the champion of human rights delivers a heavy blow to China’s civil society.
Pu was detained in early May 2014, soon after attending a private meeting to discuss the military’s violent suppression of pro-democracy protesters in 1989 at Tiananmen Square. Less than 20 people took part in the meeting to mark the 25th anniversary of the Tiananmen Incident.
The fact that Pu was detained for more than a year before being indicted is shocking.
When the U.S. State Department called for an early release of the lawyer earlier this month, China’s Foreign Ministry shot back by saying it was an interference in China’s internal affairs.
But it's not surprising that such an outrageous violation of human rights draws the attention of the United States or any other country.
Since Pu was first detained, Amnesty International and other international human rights groups have been issuing statements calling for his release.
Some people in Japan, mainly China scholars worried about Pu’s fate, have also voiced concerns about the crackdown on the lawyer.
In April, Gao Yu, a veteran journalist who was detained around the same time as Pu, was sentenced to seven years in prison for leaking a Communist Party document to a foreign website.
In September last year, Ilham Tohti, a moderate Uighur scholar, was sentenced to life in prison after being found guilty of separatism.
It is clear that the administration of President Xi Jinping has been pursuing a much harsher crackdown on intellectuals, journalists and lawyers than past Chinese governments.
Last October, the Xi administration announced a plan to overhaul the country’s judicial system.
But instead of seeking to establish a healthy rule of law based on an independent judiciary, Beijing has been moving in the opposite direction. The Chinese government has been enhancing the power of the judiciary only to ensure that its actions reflect the party’s will even more faithfully.
The case against Pu is strong evidence of that grim reality.
EDITORIAL: Politicians bully Korean school students for acts of Pyongyang
Korean schools across Japan are attended by Korean residents’ children, who are taught subjects in line with Japan’s official curriculum guidelines and also learn Korean language and culture.
EDITORIAL: BOJ needs exit strategy for negative interest rate policy
One month has passed since the Bank of Japan took the risky and controversial move to introduce negative interest rates after it had almost run out of policy tools to enhance its aggressive “quantitative” monetary easing program.
School textbooks are not tools for the government to indoctrinate young people with its views and opinions.
EDITORIAL: Ehime schools out of line on student political activities
Bucking the trend that has led to the lowering of the voting age to 18, all 59 public senior high schools in Ehime Prefecture have decided to require students to notify their schools if they plan to take part in political activities.
EDITORIAL: Abe moving to break promise on raising consumption tax
The Abe administration appears to be laying the groundwork for delaying the scheduled consumption tax hike again. Recent remarks by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and some of his top policy advisers have clearly indicated the administration is tilting toward another postponement of the plan to raise the tax rate to 10 percent.
Copyright The Asahi Shimbun Company. All rights reserved. No reproduction or republication without written permission.