2014-04~06
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/bid-loosen-islams-grip-china-orders-xinjiang-village-sell-alcohol

In bid to loosen Islam’s grip, China orders Xinjiang village to sell alcohol | TODAYonline
BEIJING — To stamp its authority on the troubled Muslim-majority Xinjiang province and dilute the influence of Islam on the local population, the Chinese government has ordered shops in a village there to sell alcohol and cigarettes, and display them in a prominent manner.
The directive was given after a self-imposed ban by shopkeepers in the village of Aktash from 2012, as locals shun consumption of alcohol and cigarettes since these acts run contrary to the tenets of Islam.
A Radio Free Asia (RFA) report said the authorities also warned shopkeepers that failure to comply would result in prosecution and closure of their establishments.
Communist Party official Adil Sulayman, told RFA that the authorities in Xinjiang viewed ethnic Uighurs who did not smoke as adhering to a form of religious extremism.
He explained that the order was meant to counter growing religious sentiment that was “affecting stability”.
In May last year, Beijing launched a “people’s war on terror” in the wake of a market bombing in Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang province, in which 31 people were killed.
The government has put in place a series of laws and regulations to govern religious expression.
Women in Urumqi were banned from wearing the burqa — an outer garment to cover the body in public — since January. Students and civil servants were banned in 2014 from participating in fasting during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
Despite the various policies against religious expression, there has been backlash from the Uighurs, who have either become more strictly observant of Islamic practices or found ways to circumvent the government bans.
Dr James Leibold, an expert on China’s ethnic policies at Melbourne’s La Trobe University, told The Washington Post that Chinese officials were “often flailing around in the dark” when tackling extremism.