2014-04~06
http://www.thailandnews.net/index.php/sid/221283803/scat/7eb51d3138244bed

Thailand News - 14 Uighurs found in east Thailand district
Dharamsala, March 20 (IANS) Tibetan exiles across the world on Sunday voted to elect their nominees for the post of 'Sikyong' or prime minister and the members of the parliament-in-exile based ...
Following Chinese tourists' chaotic stampede and subsequent gluttonous gorging of piles of prawns at a buffet in Thailand, Phuket will be holding an etiquette course for guides working with ...
NAY PYI TAW, Myanmar - Myanmar's new president-elect told lawmakers Monday that plans to create a new ethnic affairs ministry were "vital" for the conflict-torn nation, in his maiden ...
Comments Your feedback is important to us! We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article. Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties ...
The tourist was identified as Perez Neftali who rented the room since March 10. Officials of Udon Mansion apartment told police that the man was staying alone. Police ...
A THAI driver who gained notoriety after causing the deaths of nine people five years ago has been accused by Thai authorities of breaching the conditions of her probation, which has kept her out of ...
SYDNEY - Environmental groups Monday urged greater action on climate change after the government declared the highest alert level over an epidemic of coral bleaching in the pristine northern reaches ...
The service was disrupted after a Suvarnabhumi-Phayathai train's electric system malfunctioned before it reached the Ramkhamhaeng station. Some passengers got out of the ...
MAJURO, Marshall Islands - Battered by massive cyclones, El Nino-fuelled drought and swollen king tides, fragile Pacific island nations vulnerable to climate change are leading the charge in ...
Thailand’s latest draft constitution is a push by the Junta to cement its hold on power, effectively shattering the country’s democracy. While the Junta ostensibly ...
Thailand’s power peak in 2016 is expected to hit 28,500 megawatt, according to an estimate by the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand under the assumption that ...
The Thai military junta says it understands European concerns over the constitution drafting underway, but says it intends to restore democracy. ';The government has no ...
A power breakdown prompted an Airport Rail Link train to get stuck in the rail Monday morning before panic passengers exit through the emergency exits after they unsuccessfully tried to break the ...
London, United Kingdom: Leaving the European Union could cause a "serious shock" to Britain's economy, with the risk of losing almost one million jobs, according to a CBI business ...
WASHINGTON - A 6.6-magnitude earthquake hit off the east coast of Russia's Kamchatka Peninsula Monday but was not expected to cause damage or fatalities, US experts ...
OVER?the last few decades Thailand has attracted expatriates to the country to work, stay long periods of time to explore the country, or retire. Thailand attracts many young ...
Thailand News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Beaches, exotic temples, ruins, good food, world-class services, snorkeling and scuba diving, hill-tribe culture, trekking, nightlife, exceptional handicrafts, classical dance, friendly people and beautiful scenery are among the main attractions of Thailand.
Thailand will appeal to anyone who is interested in beach vacations or archaeology, but especially to those who want to explore exotic cultures without sacrificing modern conveniences.
Sydney - Two pieces of debris found in Mozambique have arrived in Australia for experts to determine if they came from missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, an official says.
A huge search for the ...
Bangkok, March 22 (IANS) Haze in Thailand's northern provinces has caused 64,108 people to be hospitalised, while more patients are expected as a result of the air pollution, the media reported on ...
Kunshan (China), March 21 (IANS) India were placed in a relatively easy group in the women's section but the men's team did not prove to be as lucky at the draw for the prestigious Thomas and Uber ...
Bangkok, March 20 (IANS) A Thai anti-corruption commission will investigate police officials who were accused of mishandling a probe into a car crash that killed two students last week, the media ...
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from the United Nations Security Council sanctions list after a Chinese request, a media report said ...
BAMAKO, Mali – At least three unidentified gunmen opened fire in their attempt to force their entry into the European Union Training Mission (EUTM) headquarters in the capital of Mali, Bamako, ...
WASHINGTON - Bernie Sanders, lagging behind Hillary Clinton in the Democratic presidential race, scored a resounding win over his rival in the Democrats Abroad global primary. The group Democrats ...
LONDON – There are “clear downside risks” to the country if Britain left the European Union, ratings agency Moody’s said on Tuesday, warning that the exit from the bloc would also lead to ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
© 1999 - 2016 Thailand News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)