2014-04~06
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/radio/program/asia-pacific/chinas-crackdown-against-terrorism-in-xinjiang/1317292

China's crackdown against terrorism in Xinjiang | Asia Pacific | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
Chinese authorities have arrested around 200 people and broken up 23 so-called 'religious extremist' Uighur groups.
The official Xinhua news agency says more than 200 explosive devices were also seized in raids over the past month.
The crackdown follows several deadly bomb blasts - the latest in a market last week which killed 31 and injured almost 100 people.
Tensions in China's volatile northwest Xinjiang province have boiled over in recent years, as ethnic strife escalates between the region's majority Uighur Muslims and immigrant Han Chinese.
Speaker: Bruce Jacobs, Emeritus Professor of Asian Studies at Monash University
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
Got something to say about what you're hearing on the radio right now?
TweetsAdd the hashtag #raonair to add your tweets to the conversation.
EmailEmail us your thoughts on an issue. Messages may be used on air.
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.