2014-04~06
http://www.fmprc.gov.cn/mfa_eng/xwfw_665399/s2510_665401/t1168011.shtml

Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Hua Chunying's Regular Press Conference on June 23, 2014
Q: It is reported that the Japanese government published an investigation report on the Kono Statement. The investigation team said that hearing the testimony of the comfort women was only to express sympathy instead of verifying historical fact, and Japan and the ROK had negotiations on the wording of the statement. The ROK side blamed Japan's investigation report for covering up the truth and undermining the Kono Statement. How does China comment on this?
A: The forced recruitment of the comfort women was a serious crime against humanity committed by Japanese militarism against people in Asia and other regions during the Second World War, and there is iron-clad evidence about this. Japan's alleged investigation further exposes its true intentions of refusing to face up to history and attempting to understate its crimes of aggression. We urge the Japanese side to face up to and reflect upon its history of aggression, take a responsible attitude to honor its commitment to the international community such as the Kono Statement, and make tangible moves to properly handle relevant historical left-over issues including the comfort women.
Q: Last Saturday, a group of gunmen attacked the public security authority in Xinjiang and injured numbers of police officers. Can you confirm this? How does China comment on this?
A: The Xinhua news agency has released information on the terrorist violent attack happened on June 21 in Kargilik county of Xinjiang, to which you may refer. I'd like to emphasize that this group of terrorists targeted law enforcement agencies at grass-root level, severely disturbed social order and flagrantly provoked the public authority of the state. The Chinese public security authority is now carrying out special operation of combating violent and terrorist activities with the purpose of upholding social stability, national security and the sanctity of the law as well as safeguarding the security of people's property. We hope to have your understanding and support regarding Chinese government's efforts on relevant issues.
Q: The People's Daily published an experts' interview underlining the importance of "Internet sovereignty". It believes that "Internet sovereignty" is in line with international laws and rules, and one country has no right to interfere with other country's Internet policies and regulations promulgated and implemented independently in accordance with its development and security requirements. Does this stand for Chinese government's position?
A: Chinese government's position on the Internet issue is very clear. The State Internet Information Office has released a series of reports which elaborated on China's position and policies on the Internet for your reference.
Q: On June 20, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon advocated a six-point proposal on solving the Syrian crisis. What is China's view on this?
A: China consistently supports the mediation efforts made by the UN and Secretary General on solving the Syrian issue, and supports appointing a successor to the Special Representative Lakhdar Brahimi as soon as possible in order to maintain and push forward the momentum of political settlement. China attaches high importance to politically solving the Syrian issue and insists the following 5 principles be upheld: we insist that the issue of Syria be resolved through political means, the future of Syria be decided by its own people, an inclusive political transition process be promoted, national reconciliation and unity be achieved in Syria and humanitarian assistance be delivered in Syria and its neighboring countries. What is central is to promote the two parties in Syria to blaze a "middle way" that is consistent with Syria's national conditions and accommodates the interests of all parties in Syria. The rampant spreading of terrorist and extremist forces has constituted a real threat to Syria and countries in the region and even beyond. The international community should pay due attention to it and deepen cooperation on this area as it is an important part of the Syrian issue.
Q: The "Occupy Central" "referendum" has collected several hundred thousand votes. Does this suggest the majority of Hong Kong people are unhappy with the central government's policy in Hong Kong? Will China re-examine relevant policies?
A: The Spokesperson of the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council has made a statement on what you mentioned in Hong Kong recently for your reference.
After the regular press conference, some reporter asked that on June 20, the Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko came up with a peace plan in the eastern region including 15 specific political measures, and ordered a week-long unilateral ceasefire in the east of the country. What is China's comment on this?
Spokesperson Hua Chunying said that China welcomes all efforts that can help de-escalate the situation in Ukraine, and hopes that relevant parties can join hands to create enabling conditions for the political settlement of the Ukrainian issue.