2014-04~06
http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2014-06-21/attack-on-china-s-xinjiang-police-station-kills-13-xinhua-says.html

Attack on China’s Xinjiang Police Station Kills 13, Xinhua Says - Bloomberg Business
Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
Officers shot to death 13 people who attacked a police station in China’s northwestern province of Xinjiang today, the official Xinhua News Agency reported today, citing the local government.
“Mobsters” rammed the building with a truck and set off explosives before being killed, Xinhua said. No civilians were hurt and three policemen were slightly injured in the attack in Yecheng county, according to the report.
China started a year-long campaign against terrorism in Xinjiang, a region beset by tension between the ethnic Uighur minority and Han Chinese, after a series of explosions killed 39 people and injured 94 on May 22. President Xi Jinping pledged to punish violence and “spare no effort” to maintain stability in the region.
The campaign will “make full use of political and legal force,” including the military and armed police, focusing on religious-extremist groups, terrorist training camps and illicit manufacturing of guns and explosives, Xinhua said.
Xinjiang is home to more than 10 million Uighurs, a mostly Muslim Turkic people who have long resented living under Chinese rule. Ethnic riots in 2009 in Urumqi, the provincial capital, left 197 people dead and more than 1,700 injured, according to state-run media.
A Chinese court sentenced three people to death this month after convicting them of planning a fatal car crash near Beijing’s Tiananmen Square last year that was blamed on separatists, China Central Television said. Flags representing the East Turkestan Islamic Movement were found in a jeep used by the attackers, state media reported.
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Opera or Internet Explorer.