2014-04~06
http://www.timeslive.co.za/world/2014/05/01/three-killed-79-wounded-in-a-bomb-and-knife-attack-at-xinjiang-railway-station

Three killed, 79 wounded in a bomb and knife attack at Xinjiang railway station - Times LIVE

 South African universities have received favourable rankings in a survey of about 77000 academics.

 Communications lines were cut in Congo for a second day and business was slack, hit by fears of post-election trouble as the country waited to see if President Denis Sassou Nguesso will keep his grip on power.

 Several explosions have been heard at Brussels’ Zaventem Airport. An evacuation is under way.

 Jackson Mthembu is the ruling party’s new chief whip in Parliament.

 Kaizer Chiefs held Asec Mimosas to a 0-0 draw in the second leg of their Caf Champions League first-round tie at Houphouet Boigny Stadium in Abidjan on Sunday‚ which was not enough to prevent Amakhosi exiting 1-0 on aggregate.

 Joe Pietersen missed a simple penalty after the hooter to leave the Sharks and Bulls tied for a 16-16 draw at Loftus on Friday.

 AB de Villiers announced himself at the World Twenty20 with a swashbuckling 64 and made Afghanistan pay heavily for dropping him twice as South Africa revived their campaign with a 37-run victory at the Wankhede Stadium on Sunday.

 With another $6.3-million up for grabs when the PGA Tour completes its Florida swing, it is an opportune moment to salute the prime architect behind such riches.

 More than two dozen players who feature in evidence collected from gamblers should be investigated for possible links to betting rings, an Italian prosecutor has told the BBC and BuzzFeed News.

 Nico Rosberg capitalised on a slow start off pole by world champion teammate Lewis Hamilton and superior tyre strategy over Ferrari to win the season-opening Australian Grand Prix on Sunday.

 In the build-up to a fight, it's not just Hekkie Budler who makes sacrifices - wife Roxy also has to do her bit.

 As usual the awards came with their fair share of drama, surprise, glitz and glamour.

 Tyra Banks has revealed she is up most nights looking after her two-month-old son York and has praised her partner Erik Asla for doing his fair share too.

 Zebra & Giraffe has announced that they are splitting up after eight years.

 Sunday Times and Delta Airlines are giving away three pairs of plane tickets to any American city.

 It used to be thought that people closed their eyes while sharing a kiss because their vision could not focus on something as close as the other person's face.

 Erectile dysfunction (ED) is not just for older men. While studies show that even younger men battle the condition, most men may not be ready to talk about it.

 Dr Michael Mol and John Berry's new cookbook is aimed at the everyday family cook who has their eye on healthier meals, but that doesn't mean dessert is off the menu. Try their recipe for chocolate tartlets

 If you sign a contract that includes a clause which is not compliant with the Consumer Protection Act, does that mean that you forfeit that protection?

 Progress in reducing carbon intensity in the travel and tourism industry can be attributed to several actions, according to a new report by the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC).

 Although “no incidents involving defective inflators have been reported” Honda Motor Southern Africa on Thursday “expanded its recall campaign to replace Takata-supplied airbag inflators”.

 Coal plants are draining an already dwindling global water supply, Greenpeace warned, consuming enough to meet the basic needs of one billion people and deepening a worldwide crisis.

 The letter by Ziyana Lategan published in this space on Friday 18 March 2016 (An open letter to Unisa's Mandla Makhanya) cannot go unchallenged.

 All data is delayed by 15 min. Data supplied by Profile Data 
 Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.

The attack Wednesday came as President Xi Jinping wrapped up a four-day visit to the area.
CCTV said assailants attacked crowds with knives and set off explosions at the same time at the Urumqi South Station. The station called in a terrorist act.
It was unclear whether Xi was still in the region at the time of the blast, which occurred at the rail station in the regional capital of Urumqi.
Train service was suspended for about two hours before it reopened under the watch of armed police, the official Xinhua News Agency said.
A woman working at a convenience store near the train station said she heard a loud explosion shortly after 7 p.m.
"The whole area now has been cordoned off by police and military police," said the woman, who spoke by telephone and refused to give her name because of the sensitivity of the matter.
Photos circulating briefly on Chinese social media sites showed scattered luggage near the station's exit and a heavy presence of armed men. Xinhua said the blast was centered on some luggage left on the ground between the station's exit and a bus stop.
Ethnic tensions have been simmering for years in Xinjiang, the home of the Muslim Uighur minority group. In 2009, a series of riots broke out in Urumqi, leaving nearly 200 people dead, according to official figures. Despite a heavy crackdown, violence has continued in the region and began spreading elsewhere in the country last year.
Rian Thum, a professor at Loyola University in New Orleans, who specializes in Uighur history and issues, said the use of explosives and the location of Wednesday's blast were significant.
"Violence in Xinjiang has previously tended to target security personnel and officials, often carried out with knives or farm tools. A bomb attack targeting civilians, if that is what this is, would mark an alarming deviation from previous patterns of Uighur political violence," Thum said.
"Of course, we can't yet assume that the attack was intentional, or that it was carried out by Uighurs , though it seems likely that it was both," he said.
Last year, three Uighurs rammed a vehicle into crowds in a suicide attack near the Forbidden City gate in the heart of Beijing, killing themselves and two tourists.
In March, five knife-wielding men and women believed to be Uighurs slashed at crowds indiscriminately at a railway station in southwestern China, killing 29 people. The government has blamed the attack on secession-seeking terrorists.
While Beijing faults separatists for raising ethnic tensions, government critics say restrictive and discriminatory policies and practices have alienated the Uighurs. They say Han people have flooded Xinjiang and benefited from its economic growth while Uighurs have felt excluded.
During his visit to the region, President Xi urged government officials to maintain social stability, promote growth, improve living standards and strengthen ethnic unity, according to state media reports.
Xi's visit dominated state broadcaster CCTV's evening news program Wednesday. It showed him shaking hands with police in helmets and bulletproof vests and inspecting shields and weapons used to quell riots.
"Local police stations are the fists and the daggers. We must work hard at the grass-roots level of the police stations," Xi said. "We must take care of our front-line offices. You need to protect yourselves and make achievements at tasks such as better serving the people in the future and safeguarding social stability."
Xi told officials that the long-term stability of Xinjiang is vital to the whole country's reform, development and stability, Xinhua reported.
Xi said China would deploy a "strike-first strategy" in its fight against terrorism, Xinhua said.