2014-04~06
http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/china-says-separatist-group-attacked-train-station-1.2646689

China says separatist group attacked train station - World - CBC News

The Associated Press

Posted: May 18, 2014 6:30 AM ET
Last Updated: May 18, 2014 6:30 AM ET


 Armed Chinese paramilitary policemen stand guard on the Chang'an Avenue near Tiananmen Square in Beijing Monday, May 12, 2014. (Andy Wong/Associated Press)
China on Sunday blamed a separatist militant group for carrying out a deadly attack at a train station in the western Xinjiang region last month.
Citing the regional government, the official Xinhua News Agency said that the East Turkistan Islamic Movement was behind the attack in the regional capital, Urumqi, that killed three people and injured 79 others.
East Turkistan is the name used for Xinjiang by some members of the region's native Uighur ethnic group, extremists among which have been fighting for years a low-intensity insurgency against Chinese rule.
Beijing says the ETIM has ties to overseas supporters of Uighur separatism. The U.S. initially placed it on a terrorist watch list following the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, but later quietly removed it amid doubts that it existed in any organized manner. It is still listed as a terrorist group by the United Nations.
Xinhua cited the region's publicity department in saying that the attack was planned outside China by an ETIM member called Ismail Yusup.
Calls to the publicity department and information offices of the Xinjiang government, Xinjiang police and Urumqi police rang unanswered.
'For more than half a century the sight of a U.S. president here in Havana would have been unimaginable. But this is a new day between our 2 countries'
Leaders discuss range of topics from sovereignty to human rights
French police say man's DNA connected to last year's deadly terrorist attacks
Barack Obama and Raul Castro 'are trying to change the psychological relationship between two countries,' says Canada's former ambassador to Cuba
Canada's destination for original journalism and stories with added depth and context.
Kashechewan children's skin lesions not caused by water: health minister
Rob Ford's doctors 'very concerned' about cancer reappearance, spokesman says
FBI says it may not need Apple's help to decrypyt San Bernardino shooter's phone
Federal budget 2016: 4 things First Nation leaders are watching for
Barack Obama brings message of change to Cuba, meeting with Raul Castro
Raymond Moore steps down as Indian Wells director following remarks about WTA
Amber Alert baby's dad won't be charged for leaving child in running car
Trump vows strong relationship with Israel, takes fire from rivals at AIPAC
George McLean, longtime host of CBC's The National, dead at 92