2014-04~06
http://www.dawn.com/news/1108775/china-claims-busting-23-groups-arresting-200-suspects-in-xinjiang/RK=0

China claims busting 23 groups, arresting 200 suspects in Xinjiang - Newspaper - DAWN.COM
BEIJING: Chinese police in the far western region of Xinjiang have taken down 23 “terror and religious extremism groups” and caught more than 200 suspects in May, state media said, days after the region’s deadliest attack in years.
China has announced year-long “anti-terrorism” operations in restive Xinjiang, home to a large Muslim Uighur minority, as well as across the country, following a series of bloody incidents that Beijing blames on Islamists and separatists from the region.
Police busted the groups in the southern Xinjiang prefectures of Hotan, Kashgar and Aksu and seized more than 200 explosive devices in raids, the official Xinhua news agency said late on Sunday.
Many of those captured were in their 20s and 30s, and had learned how to make explosives by watching online videos, Xinhua said.
“They exchanged their experiences of making explosives and propagating jihad through chatting tools, text messages and illegal preaching sites,” the news agency said, citing the regional public security department.
China has said five suicide bombers carried out an attack at a morning vegetable market in Xinjiang’s capital of Urumqi on Thursday, which killed 31 people and injured 94.
It was the second attack in Urumqi in just over three weeks, after a bomb went off at a train station in late April, killing a bystander and wounding 79.
“We must truly turn violent terrorists into rats scurrying across the street, with everyone shouting to beat them down,” state media cited Zhang Chunxian, the ruling Communist Party chief in Xinjiang, as saying at a Sunday meeting on the latest Urumqi attack.
At least 180 people have been killed in attacks across China over the past year.
What will the defenders of the ummah, pakistan, do now? After all china is a close friend, isnt it?
That's the way to go about it. We are too slow here in Pakistan
If such steps were taken by India, all of Pakistan would have come out on streets to protest for the rights of indian muslims and to bas the new Indian PM for genocide.
But since its China, no Pakistani will utter any word now. Height of Hypocrisy!!

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
