2014-04~06
http://www.newspakistan.pk/2014/06/17/sentenced-death-china-attack-tiananmen/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+Newspakistanpk+%28NewsPakistan.pk%29

3 sentenced to death in China for attack in Tiananmen - News Pakistan
A court in Xinjiang has sentenced to death three people for their role in the attack carried out last October in Tiananmen Square in Beijing, in which a Chinese citizen and a Filipino tourist died.  The court has sentenced another person to life imprisonment and four to prison terms ranging from five to 20 years for the same reason, as reported Monday the official Xinhua news agency and public broadcaster CCTV.
The decision by the government amid the anti-terrorist campaign after attacks on civilians occurred in recent months both in and out of Xinjiang Autonomous Region West, home to the Muslim Uighur minority.
The three were sentenced to death accused of providing funds to carry out the attack on October 28 at Tiananmen. According to Xinhua, traveled to Beijing on October 7 to facilitate the money to buy a convertible, petrol, knives and other materials used in the attack vehicle. The eight involved were arrested within days of the incident. The three occupants of the vehicle died in the attack, to which Beijing called Xinjiang separatist militants were the driver, his mother and his wife, according to Chinese authorities.
The attack in the first – Tiananmen shake Beijing in recent years marked the beginning of what looks like a change of strategy of the insurgency against the government in Xinjiang launched by radicals. Until then, armed attacks regularly punish this area of northwestern China is rich in natural resources produced within the autonomous region and were directed against police and members of the security forces. Since then, they have expanded to other provinces in China, although they have continued to affect Xinjiang.
On 1 March, 29 people who were in the train station of Kunming (capital of the southern province of Yunnan) died and 143 were injured due to asestadas stabbed during an assault carried out by “a group of separatists Xinjiang, “according to the Government called. Police responded and killed four of the attackers, including a woman. Last month, 39 people were killed and over 90 wounded in a bomb attack at a street market in Urumqi (capital of the autonomous region). Police killed four terrorists and a fifth was arrested.
Xinjiang is home to a strong separatist movement, and many Uighurs feel immense opposition to the central government in Beijing so consider the suppression of their religion and culture. Associations of Uighurs in exile and groups defending the rights of this minority say that the official policy gives a strong hand in the area behind the outbreak of violence. Uighurs also complain that the political and economic control of Xinjiang is in the hands of the Han, the majority ethnic group in China.
Beijing claims that the perpetrators of violence are terrorists motivated by religious extremism, seeking independence for Xinjiang and have links with Islamist groups abroad. Says who want to create their own state called East Turkistan. Faced with accusations of repression and economic dominance, says progress has led to the region and improved the standard of living of the people. Uighurs account for 47 % of Xinjiang’s population and have 38%, according to the regional government of 2011. The rest belong to other minorities.
The authorities did not reveal the identity of the persons responsible for the attacks as Uighurs not to demonize entire ethnic group, but to call them extremists normally Xinjiang association is clear. All convicted of the bombing in Tiananmen seem to have names of Uighur origin.