2014-04~06
http://www.dw.de/chinese-police-shoot-dead-13-assailants-in-xinjiang-province/a-17726218

Chinese police shoot dead 13 assailants in Xinjiang province | News | DW.COM | 21.06.2014

Police in China's restive Xinjiang province have shot dead 13 assailants, after they drove a vehicle into a police station and set off an explosion.


Three police officers were also injured in Saturday's attack, the latest incident in a wave violence that has gripped China's western Xinjiang province.

"The gangsters drove a vehicle to ram the building of the public security bureau of Yecheng County in southern Xinjiang and set off explosives," reported the state news agency, Xinhau.

Xinjiang is home to the predominantly Muslim ethnic Uighur community, which has a tense relationship with Beijing. Many Uighurs accuse the Chinese government of restricting their cultural and religious practices and discriminating against them in favor of the Han ethnic group.

Beijing has blamed separatist Uighur militants affiliated with the East Turkestan Islamist Movement for launching a series of lethal attacks recently.

Earlier this week, authorities executed 13 people for "terrorist attacks" in Xinjiang. Beijing sentenced three others to death for an attack last October in Tiananmen Square, in which assailants drove a car into a crowd, killing two pedestrians and wounding 40 others.

Last month, assailants threw explosives and drove off-road vehicles through a market in Xinjiang's provincial capital, Urumqi. At least 43 people died in that attack.

In March, attackers armed with knives went on a stabbing spree in the southwestern city of Kunming, killing 29 people and wounding 143 others.
Indonesian security forces have killed two ethnic Uighur Chinese militants following a shoot-out. The two men belonged to a militant network run by country's most wanted man.
Beijing has approved a new counterterrorism law aimed primarily at controlling ethnic unrest domestically. But the law has drawn criticism from foreign governments who argue it violates human rights.
China has announced the deaths of 28 people during a police crackdown in Xinjiang, home to many Muslim Uighurs. In September, the group allegedly launched a terror attack at a coal mine, killing more than a dozen people.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
