2014-04~06
http://www.news.com.au/world/breaking-news/blast-injures-dozens-at-station-in-china/story-e6frfkui-1226901535250?from=public_rss

China's Xi vows action after rail attacks

 TRYING to make your dreams come true? All you need is an internet connection and some really bad Photoshop skills.


 AT least one person has been killed after two explosions at a Brussels airport, which have reportedly trapped hundreds inside the terminal.


 A SHOCKING new documentary reveals the reality of life in Saudi Arabia, and how disturbingly similar its punishments are to IS. Confronting content.


 IT MIGHT look and feel like paradise, but this island chain in the Indian Ocean holds an incredibly depressing world record.


 A MAN who saved a baby girl in a drowning tragedy that claimed the lives of five members of her family off the Irish coast has spoken of his experience.


 HILLARY Clinton has launched her most pointed attack yet on the Republican frontrunner, calling the prospect of a Trump presidency “unthinkable”.


 AUSTRALIAN man Tom Mackay was halfway through his 900km walk across India when he came face-to-face with his worst nightmare: A king cobra.


 TRUMP’S rallies hit a fresh new low, so bad in fact a police officer described protesters as “the most hateful, evil people I’ve ever seen”.


China's president has ordered a crackdown after a stabbing spree and explosion at a railway station.
Source: AAP



 CHINESE President Xi Jinping has ordered a crackdown after a stabbing spree and explosion at a railway station in the restive Muslim-majority region of Xinjiang left three people dead and 79 wounded, state media says.
 

The violence came as Xi was wrapping up what state media characterised as an "inspection tour" of the volatile region in China's far west, during which he had called for a "strike-first" strategy to fight terrorism.
"The battle to combat violence and terrorism will not allow even a moment of slackness, and decisive actions must be taken to resolutely suppress the terrorists' rampant momentum," Xi said in comments published early Thursday by the official Xinhua news agency.
Xinhua earlier said attackers slashed people with knives and set off explosives among baggage at the southern railway station in Xinjiang's capital Urumqi on Wednesday evening.
The agency called it a "violent terrorist attack", though so far no particular group has been blamed. In the past, China has fingered what it calls religious extremists with support from outside groups, but is careful not to blame the region's ethnic Uighurs in general.
The mayhem came just two months after machete-wielding attackers rampaged through a railway station in the southern Chinese city of Kunming, killing 29 people and wounding 143 in what many in China dubbed the country's "9/11".
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for exile group the World Uighur Congress, citing local sources, claimed more than 100 Uighurs were arrested in the aftermath of Wednesday's attack.
"Uighurs struggling between despair and survival expect Xi Jinping to come to East Turkestan to give constructive suggestions on improving the turbulent situation," he said in an email, using the term for the region favoured by exile groups.
"However, the fact is Beijing continues encouraging armed suppression of Uighurs," he wrote.
Xinjiang is a vast and nominally autonomous region where Uighurs are the largest ethnic group, though decades of migration to the area by China's dominant Han majority has fostered tensions.
The area is periodically hit by deadly clashes that authorities blame on terrorists but which rights groups and analysts say are driven by cultural and religious repression as well as economic disparities.