2014-04~06
http://www.worldbulletin.net/haberler/136962/deadly-blast-rocks-east-turkestan-capital-urumqi-updated

Deadly blast rocks East Turkestan capital Urumqi-UPDATED | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
Explosives hurled from two vehicles which ploughed into an open market in China's East Turkestan (Xinjiang) province killed 31 people on Thursday, state media reported, the deadliest act of violence in the region in years.
China's Ministry of Public Security called the attack in the regional capital of Urumqi a "serious violent terrorist incident" and domestic security chief Meng Jianzhu vowed to strengthen a crackdown on the "arrogance of terrorists".
China has blamed a series of anti-government uprisings in recent months on separatists from East Turkestan, the homeland of the ethnic Uighur Muslims.
The cross-country vehicles rammed into shoppers in an open market, Xinhua news agency reported, citing witness reports. Explosives were flung out of the vehicles, and one of the vehicles exploded.
One witness told Reuters he saw the aftermath of the blasts on his way to work.
"The air was full of the smell of gunpowder and the sound of sobbing," he said. "There were simply too many (casualties), old folks who were at the morning market."
A business owner told Xinhua he had heard a dozen loud explosions.
The blasts occurred at a market near Renmin Park in downtown Urumqi.
East Turkestan has been plagued by violence for years, but rights activists and exile groups say the government's own heavy handed policies in the region have sowed the seeds of unrest.
Photos posted on social media purportedly of the blast, but not verified by Reuters, showed a column of smoke and chaos at the market, with bloodied people lying on the tree-lined road near small stands selling fruit, vegetables and eggs.
"There were two vehicles that drove like crazy towards the morning market," another witness who declined to give his name told Reuters by telephone. "The market was total chaos. Hawkers and shoppers started running everywhere... it was definitely a terrorist act. I'm so angry."
Other photos showed riot police on the scene and bodies lying amid flames. Produce and debris were scattered across the street.
Exile group the World Uighur Congress and officials with the Chinese provincial government could not be immediately reached for comment.
The attack was the deadliest in a recent series targeting crowded public places in China. In March, 29 people were stabbed to death at a train station in the southwestern city of Kunming.
A bomb and knife attack earlier this month at an Urumqi train station killed one bystander and wounded 79. A car burst into flames at the edge of Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October, killing five people, in what Beijing said was a 'terrorist' attack.
East Turkestan, resource-rich and strategically located on the borders of central Asia, is home to the Uighur people, a mostly Muslim ethnic group who speak a Turkic language and are culturally distinct from China's ethnic Han majority.
Violent riots shook the region in 2009, when hundreds of locals took to the streets in Urumqi, burning and smashing vehicles. Dozens were killed in the unrest.
But exiles and rights groups say China's repressive policies that have targeted religious freedoms and economic opportunities for Uighurs are the culprits when it comes to unrest.
In recent weeks, China has strengthened a crackdown on Uighurs in the region, jailing dozens for spreading extremist propaganda and manufacturing arms, among other charges.
Christopher Johnson, a former China analyst at the CIA, said China's leadership may come to the realisation that a policy of constantly tightening controls on East Turkestan may not be effective in preventing attacks.
"I'm kind of doubtful that they are going to announce some sort of more liberal policy," said Johnson, who now works at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
"But sooner or later I think they are going to have to come to that reality because the evidence is just smacking them in the face."
Suu Kyi to take one of four positions in new cabinet, with Minister of Foreign Affairs tipped to be the likely choice
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Chinese police raided 148 points in Muslim Xinjiang in 2014
China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing'
US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

Gunman killed in attack on Mali hotel hosting EU mission

US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
