2014-04~06
http://chinadigitaltimes.net/2014/05/minitrue-xinjiang-vietnam-taking-beating/

Minitrue: Xinjiang, Vietnam, Taking a Beating - China Digital Times (CDT)
The following censorship instructions, issued to the media by government authorities, have been leaked and distributed online. The name of the issuing body has been omitted to protect the source.
Delete the [Ta Kong Bao] article “Three Officials Killed by Terrorists in Kashgar, Xinjiang.”
Three ethnic Han officials were stabbed to death on April 27, during President Xi Jinping’s visit to Xinjiang. Three days later, an explosion at a train station in the provincial capital, Urumqi, killed one person and injured 79.
We warn you once again: The media must absolutely use only Xinhua wire copy in coverage of attacks on Chinese businesses in Vietnam, etc.
A Chinese oil exploration vessel entering disputed waters has triggered violent protests in Vietnam. Rioters have targeted Chinese and Taiwanese factories, setting fires and looting buildings. Two Chinese citizens have been killed in the clashes. China has evacuated over 3,000 people.
Websites must take care to delete the article “China’s History of Taking a Beating Is Actually a History of Asking for a Beating.”
The December 2013 blog post asserts that China’s “century of humiliation” beginning with the Opium War, and previous conquest of the empire by the likes of the Mongols and the Manchu, happened not because China was “backward,” but because it was corrupt and poorly governed. Mingjing News republished the post [Chinese] on May 16.
CDT collects directives from a variety of sources and checks them against official Chinese media reports to confirm their implementation.
Since directives are sometimes communicated orally to journalists and editors, who then leak them online, the wording published here may not be exact. The date given may indicate when the directive was leaked, rather than when it was issued. CDT does its utmost to verify dates and wording, but also takes precautions to protect the source.
WAR IS PEACE • FREEDOM IS SLAVERY • IGNORANCE IS STRENGTH