2014-04~06
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/nervous-china-keen-play-bigger-role-afghanistan

Nervous China keen to play bigger role on Afghanistan | TODAYonline
KABUL/BEIJING — China is quietly preparing for a more robust role in the future of Afghanistan, concerned that the withdrawal of North Atlantic Treaty Organization troops will leave a hotbed of militancy on its doorstep.
The two countries are connected by a narrow mountainous corridor that is almost impassable, which means Beijing could focus on mining and mineral deals in Afghanistan as Western forces battled Taliban insurgents. However, officials say China is emerging as a key strategic player.
In August, it will host a “Heart of Asia” conference on Afghanistan, which may have a newly elected President by then, inviting leaders from regional nations including India and Pakistan.
A Western diplomat said China has already held discreet talks with Afghanistan and other countries.
One of its chief worries is that Uighur militants who want a separate state in western China’s Xinjiang region will exploit the security vacuum, created after the bulk of NATO forces withdraw by the end of the year, to step up their fight. Hundreds of Uighur fighters are believed to be holed up in rugged, lawless tribal areas straddling Afghanistan and Pakistan.
In a rare interview from an undisclosed location last month, their leader told Reuters that China would be made to pay for its crackdown on separatists in Xinjiang.
“In the past we said: ‘The Americans are there and the Americans don’t want anyone else, especially not another great power, taking their place’,” said Mr Hu Shisheng, a South Asia expert at a government-backed think-tank, the China Institute of International Relations in Beijing. “Now with the US strategic focus shifting, neighbouring countries cannot let Afghanistan descend into chaos. The Pakistan and the Afghanistan Taliban are sympathetic towards the Uighurs. So we absolutely have to pay attention to this, in a way that perhaps we did not before.”
So far, China’s commitment to Afghan reconstruction since the ousting of a hardline Islamist Taliban regime in 2001 has been about US$250 million (S$313 million) and its security support has been limited to counter-narcotics training. China has a US$700 million deal to drill for oil in the Amu Darya Basin and a US$3 billion deal to develop the Aynak copper mining project. However, insiders say security concerns, not investment, are the primary driver of China’s new focus.
“They were focused on economics, not reconciliation or peace. But recently they have expressed their willingness to get more involved in the peace process,” said a member of the High Peace Council, an Afghan government body overseeing negotiations with the Taliban. The Chinese and American embassies in Kabul declined to comment.
Officials believe, however, that, with the West’s attention on the region set to fade, Beijing has an opportunity to flex its diplomatic muscle, using warm relations with Afghanistan and Pakistan to ease suspicion between the two neighbours.