2014-04~06
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang:-more-than-200-Uighurs-arrested-in-connection-with-the-Urumqi-attack-31183.html

CHINA Xinjiang: more than 200 Uighurs arrested in connection with the Urumqi attack
Urumqi (AsiaNews/Agencies)
- More than 200 people were arrested and 23 extremist groups broken, state
media report after Chinese authorities launched a massive campaign in Xinjiang province,
following an attack
at Urumqi railway station on Thursday that left 34 people dead.

According to the
Xinhua news agency, police arrested many
suspects in their 20s and 30s since Friday.
They learnt how
to make explosives through the internet and undertook physical training by
watching online videos. Equally, they used text messages and social media to
chat about how to make explosives and spread "jihad".
During their
crackdown, police also seized more than 200 explosive devices. For the
authorities, those responsible for the spread of Islamic extremism are all ethnic
Uighurs, with contacts in Turkmenistan. All those
arrested were also Uighurs.
For
years, Xinjiang, a region inhabited by the Uyghur, a Turkic Muslim ethnic minority,
has been rocked by riots and tensions. The
Uighurs accuse Beijing of colonising their homeland and demand greater
autonomy.
The
government, which has moved millions of ethnic Han Chinese settlers to Xinjiang
and boosted its military presence, has accuses Uighurs of separatism and Islamic
terrorism.
In order
to end the violence, the authorities have been quick to impose the death
penalty and have denied local Muslims their religious freedom.
In a
previous incident at the end of April, two suspected suicide bombers detonated
explosives at the exit to the Urumqi train station, killing themselves
and one other person. Another eight people attacked passengers with knives, leaving
79 injured.
The
violence came just a few hours after President Xi Jinping ended his visit to
the region.
In
recent months, attacks with bombs and knives have also occurred in Guangzhou
and Kunming, which the government don Islamic separatists in Xinjiang.
AsiaNews spoke to Josephine, one of hundreds of Christians from Al-Hasakah, who spent a year in the hands of the Islamic State group. She talked about psychological suffering, conversion attempts, and separation from her male relatives. She survived thanks to her faith. Her mother Caroline, a Caritas official, is the only one in her family to have been spared the ordeal. She also negotiated their release with IS, and gave a Jihadi copies of the Bible. Now she hopes “to meet the pope” with her entire family.
Sister Rani Maria was killed in 1995, stabbed 54 times. The murderer was a radical Hindu, incited by village leaders, who wanted to stop the nun's activities in favor of tribal poor. The path "that led me to forgive Samunder Singh has not been easy, but now he's my brother." Instead, "my mother said once: 'I would kiss his hands, because on them there is the blood of my daughter'." The exchange of the Indian bracelet that celebrates love between siblings; the moment of encounter with the victim's mother.

 
2003 © All rights reserved - AsiaNews C.F. e P.Iva: 00889190153 - GLACOM®
Copyright ÂŠ 2003 AsiaNews C.F. 00889190153 All rights reserved. Content on this site is made available for personal, non-commercial use only. You may not reproduce, republish, sell or otherwise distribute the content or any modified or altered versions of it without the express written permission of the editor. Photos on AsiaNews.it are largely taken from the internet and thus considered to be in the public domain. Anyone contrary to their publication need only contact the editorial office which will immediately proceed to remove the photos.