2014-04~06
http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/opinion/15-May-2014/xinjiang-tackles-the-poverty-issue

Xinjiang tackles the poverty issue
The Chinese province of Xinjiang has once again been targetted by extremists with a bomb attack on the Urumqi railway station on the eve of the May Day holiday just hours after Chinese President Xi Jinping concluded a trip there. The blast took a toll of three lives and left 79 injured. Chinese President Xi Jinping has urged “decisive actions” against violent terrorist attacks after the blast at the railway station. Earlier, on March 1, 2014, militants attacked passengers at the railway station in Kunming, the capital of Yunnan, with swords in which 29 innocent people were killed and 143 others injured. On October 28, 2013, a car crashed in Tiananmen Square, Beijing, in a terrorist suicide attack, the first ever to hit Beijing. Two innocent people died in the incident: one Filipino and the other a Chinese citizen from Guangdong province. These attacks have been presented as ethnic strife but the Chinese leadership has rightly diagnosed the cause of the problem. They have concluded that the relative lower state of prosperity amongst the ethnic minorities is being exploited by vested interests to serve their own agenda. Uighurs constitute 40 percent of the 22.6 million local population while the Han account for 40 percent in the resource-rich Xinjiang province. Before announcing a major uplift of the ethnic minorities, President Xi Jinping gave a stern warning to the miscreants, stating that the battle to combat violence and terrorism would not allow even a moment of slackness and decisive actions must be taken to resolutely suppress the terrorists’ rampant momentum. President Xi demanded profound awareness of the Xinjiang separatist forces and noted that the anti-separatism battle in Xinjiang is long-term, complicated and acute. In the same breath, the astute leader announced that social stability should be properly ensured, adding that measures should be taken to safeguard the security of people of all ethnic groups and to restore order to their normal life and work.In 2014, regional government subsidies for poor families in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region have been increased by 6.6 percent to reach 4.16 billion Yuan ($ 676 million). As a key programme to improve people’s living standards, the regional government earmarked 2.3 billion Yuan and 1.8 billion Yuan as living subsidies for urban and rural poor families respectively. Xinjiang has 860,000 urban citizens and 1.3 million rural residents who enjoy living subsidies. The monthly per capita subsidy is 277 Yuan for urban families and 129 Yuan for rural households. In 2013, the regional government allocated 3.9 billion Yuan as minimum living allowances for the poor. The monthly per capita subsidy is about $ 46 for urban families and $ 22 for rural householdsWith a land area of 1.66 million square km, Xinjiang has a population of 22.6 million. The assailants in all these attacks are stated to be associated with the East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), which demands the independence of the province and separation of Xinjiang from China. The ETIM was founded in 1993 by two natives of Hotian but it fizzled out within a few months. Hasan Mahsum and Abudukadir Yapuquan reorganised the movement in 1997, and gave it fresh impetus. In 1998, Mahsum moved ETIM’s headquarters to Kabul, after receiving the promise of protection by the Taliban, who held sway in Afghanistan at that time. Here the ETIM leaders were exposed to the working of al Qaeda and also met Osama bin Laden and his ilk like the Taliban and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan to coordinate their actions. At this juncture, the ETIM dropped the ‘East’ from its name to broaden its domain. The group’s infrastructure was crippled after the US-led coalition forces invaded Afghanistan and bombed al Qaeda bases in the mountainous regions along the border with Pakistan during which the leader of ETIM, Hasan Mahsum, was killed.Reportedly, the ETIM resurged after the US-led invasion of Iraq incensed al Qaeda and its allies. According to some sources, the ETIM expanded its portfolio to attacks on US interests such as the US embassy in Bishkek (Kyrgyzstan). The US Department of State retaliated by listing it as a terrorist organisation, which came as a major blow for the ETIM as it lost the sympathy of many western organisations who would otherwise support its struggle against China under alleged human rights abuse issues. Nonetheless, the ETIM circulated a video in 2006 calling for a renewed jihad, and took advantage of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing to gain publicity for its attacks. The ETIM is said to be allied with the Taliban and al Qaeda and receives funding from well to do supporters in the west.It is heartening that the Uighur youth reject the activities of the ETIM and have come out in full support of the Chinese government and its development projects in Xinjiang to tackle deprivation.

 That the clerics have handled the women protection bill very clumsily is there for all to see. In ...

 The year of the monkey did not start auspiciously for Beijing. In slightly more than a month, its ...

 There is robust literature on the evolving perceptions of European Union (EU) intelligence ...