2014-04~06
http://www.dawn.com/news/1109886/threat-to-sino-pak-friendship

Threat to Sino-Pak friendship - Newspaper - DAWN.COM
THE issue of terrorism remains at the heart of the world’s diplomatic, economic and strategic engagement with Pakistan. It invariably constrains Pakistan’s pursuit of economic, strategic and political interests.
The ghost of terrorism will continue to haunt Pakistan and put more pressure on the country’s relations with its neighbours after the withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan. 
Pakistan’s major economic, strategic and political partner China will also expect that the former puts extra efforts into dealing with terrorism.
The recent incident of the kidnapping of a Chinese tourist from Zhob district of Balochistan coincided with President Mamnoon Hussain’s and Punjab Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif’s visit to Beijing to sign the contract of Pakistan’s first metro train project. Though the president condemned the incident and vowed that Pakistan would take effective measures to ensure the safety of Chinese citizens and projects in the country, China is deeply concerned about the security of its interests in Pakistan.
Also, it is concerned about the Uighur militants who are allegedly based in the Pak-Afghan border areas and have developed strong links with Pakistani and foreign militants of Central Asian and Arab origin sheltered in these areas.
Pakistan cannot set aside Chinese security concerns as China has emerged as a major economic development and trade partner of the country. According to media reports, China is investing around $52 billion in major projects in Pakistan.
China’s new leadership has come up with a regional economic approach to engage neighbouring countries for common development and economic integration. Under this framework, China wants improved regional infrastructure for better connectivity; it is offering help and collaboration in building better transport networks including roads, motorways, railways and air links.
Under this vision, China is planning to develop four highways and maritime economic corridors including the Bangladesh-India-Myanmar-China economic corridor and one with Central Asia. However, the Chinese are more enthusiastic about the China-Pakistan economic corridor and consider it an important part of the 21st-century Silk Road.
Chinese policymakers calculate three major risks which they think can hinder progress on the project. First, they are concerned about policy risks, both internal and external, and see the US as an irritant and India as a troubling factor. The internal policy issues are least likely to create any hindrance as the Pakistani establishment cannot delay the projects with China 
because of internal political turmoil; public opinion is also in favour of China.
The same applies to Chinese concerns about external interference as it seems almost 
impossible that the Pakistani political and military establishments would hamper any Pak-China project under external pressure. The Iran-Pakistan pipeline project has different global and regional perspectives and China understands the situation and Pakistan’s stated limitations.
The second risk entails Chinese policymakers’ perceived fiscal concerns. But the PML-N-led government is planning to allocate over Rs73bn in the Public Sector Development Programme for the next budget (2014-15) in order to implement development projects under the China-Pakistan economic corridor. Given Pakistan’s economic situation, assistance from the Chinese financial sector cannot be ignored. The Chinese know if there is a political will, there will be an economic way.
However, Pakistan needs to take more initiatives to address Chinese concerns related to their perceived security risks. China has two major security concerns: first, the link of terrorism and insecurity in China’s Xinjiang province to Pakistan’s tribal areas; and second, the security of its citizens working on projects in Pakistan.
The terrorists based in Pakistan’s tribal areas are not the only actors contributing towards insecurity in China; separatists and violent extremists based in Xinjiang also pose major internal security threats.
These factors have internal and external support and operational mechanisms. After the recent wave of terrorist incidents, Chinese authorities admitted that extremists are learning terrorism techniques through the internet. The growing similarities in militants’ operational tactics and strategies in Xinjiang, Chechnya and Dagestan reflect that coordination among the 
militants of these different regions cannot be completely ruled out.
The East Turkestan Islamic Movement (Etim) and its breakaway factions such as the Turkestan Islamic Party are expanding their outreach within China and recent incidents of terrorism in Beijing and Kunming have increased anxiety among the Chinese authorities.
A realisation is growing among Chinese think tanks that only the development strategy in conflict-ridden regions cannot resolve the problem; they will have to adopt a political approach to increase engagement with communities, including the Uighurs.
Despite these changing dynamics of terrorism and insecurity in China, Beijing still expects active support from Pakistan. The Chinese believe that militants based in Pakistan’s tribal areas were the masterminds behind major recent terrorist attacks that occurred in China.
That is why after incidents of terrorism in China, pressure on Pakistan increases.
Though Beijing does not interfere in Pakistan’s approach to pursuing talks with the local Taliban, this writer’s recent interaction with some Chinese think tanks and scholars suggested that China wishes that Pakistan should soon reach a conclusion about launching an operation against militants in the tribal areas. They perceive that military action will also weaken Etim. 
They fear that any delay in action against terrorists can provide space to the latter and they can relocate themselves around the proposed economic corridor and create problems in smooth construction and trade through the corridor.
This is a tough equation; China is not the US, and it keeps politics separate from its core issues. Pakistan will have less space to avoid Chinese pressure on this subject.
Muhammad Amir Rana is a security analyst. He is the Director of Pak Institute for Peace Studies (PIPS), Islamabad, Pakistan.
The views expressed by this writer and commenters below do not necessarily reflect the views and policies of the Dawn Media Group.
We do read lots of articles about the militancy, and reasons of this, in Pakitani tribal areas and adjoing region, however, these articles never discuss militants' funding source. Instead of talking to TTP leadres, the Pakistan government needs to talk to their foreign and local financiers. We must cut the militants' supply lines.
The article seems out of date. All recent strikes in N Waziristan were aimed at Uighur militants.
We should also talk about the freedom of religion in China for the Uighurs to practice Islamic traditions that lies at the root of the Uighur insurgency.
Sir, I completely agree to the facts disclosed in the column. Our government should never make any compromise on the issue of security of both the internal and external people. Since, the elimination of terrorism from our country is on the verge of 'Now or never'. Any internal or external endeavour to sabotage the Pak-China economic development projects should be dealt with iron hands.
China's suppression of our Muslim brothers is unacceptable, shame on us Pakistanis who will do everything in the name of Islam except love each other and humanity. There is a reason why China has no other allies in the area, and it's not "outside powers..." China is an aspiring economic power and military aggressor, but it's still a third world country. China lacks the engineering and building skills of the West, it merely makes cheap copies and infrastructure that will be dangerous in the future. Pakistan should have aligned with the US a long time ago - if you're going to seek patronage, go for the best. Look at Japan (after its historic defeat), look at South Korea, they've prospered and become independent economic powerhouses, real developed countries. Malaysia is also well on its way.
If Pakistan is ever at risk of domination from a foreign power, it's always easier to lead an insurgency against someone from across the globe than someone from right across the border.
@S M 
I agree, what has China given us except acting as an irritant to India. Do you remember the amount of aid provided by China to flood victims in Pakistan; it was not even 10% of aid provided by US. We make emotional decisions when choosing our friends. Let us be clear that China is nobody's friend. China's trade with India is nearing or exceeding $100 Billion a year with trade balance highly in favor of China. At best I see China staying neutral in an event of India-Pakistan conflict. So really what is this friendship about? Is China the modern form of East India Company?
Expressing freedom of religion by violence is not acceptable to China.
Mr Nawaz Sharif has no vision at all he is completely clueless first of all Pakistan got to pay full attention to its domestic problem and root out terrorism quickly which is the major problem to prosperity i personally believe 2015 will be a crucial year for Pakistan secondly make a concrete foreign policy of course which will be in the best interest of Pakistan but first thing first forget about the rest pay attention to the domestic structure
China would not even invest 57 dollars let alone 57 billion unless they see a benefit for China. Let us get out of this delusion about how the Chinese will always be there to give us a shoulder to cry upon. The Chinese have one interest and one interest only and that is to source their raw materials from Pakistan, if in the process they flood the market with cheap and useless Chinese goods all the more good. Its amusing to read news about how China is ready to invest 57 billion dollars in Pakistan, where is the proof? is there a signed agreement?
Where was China in 1971? That's right. That's all you need to know about China.
@Rattan - Ok - have your laugh - but then please explain why you find it so humorous...

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
