2014-04~06
http://hereandnow.wbur.org/2014/05/29/uighur-abduweli-ayup

Uighur Linguist Remains Jailed Despite International Protest | Here & Now
Abduweli Ayup, pictured here in Florida, is among the Uighurs behind bars in China. (Facebook)
Chinese police are clamping down on what they’re calling Uighur terror groups after the deadly marketplace attack in the western province of Xinjiang last week.
Uighurs are a largely Muslim ethnic minority group. They view themselves as culturally and ethnically closer to Central Asian nations.
Meanwhile, non-violent Uighur activists are also behind bars in China. One of them is a linguist named Abduweli Ayup. After getting a degree at the University of Kansas, Ayup returned to China to open Uighur language schools.
Last August, he was arrested on what his supporters see as trumped-up charges of illegal fundraising. His family said last winter that he had fallen ill; they were denied access to him.
Since then, international organizations have stepped up efforts to release him, lobbying in Washington. They have an online petition and a Facebook page.
Here & Now’s Robin Young speaks with Ayup’s childhood friend Anwar Mamat, who teaches at Temple University in Philadelphia. Mamat grew up with Ayup in China and reunited with him with they were both at school in the U.S.
On the problem of Uighur children not being educated in their language
“When I was a child, I mean, we studied math, geography, physics — all those subjects, we studied in Uighur, and then we had one course called Chinese. Now, everything is the other way around. They teach them everything in Chinese, and they have one course called Uighur. They learn grammar, maybe, as one course. So Uighur teachers, they’re teaching Uighur kids in Chinese.”
“I worked in the biggest university in Xinjiang, the Xinjiang University, for three years. I taught computer science there. I used to teach Uighur kids in Chinese. So I’ll give an example: I’d teach computer science in Chinese, but if I can explain something in Uighur, my mother language, 100 percent, probably, I could explain that in Chinese, like, 80 percent. And then the students, the Uighur students, they digest that Chinese into their language, probably, they can get 70 percent out of it. So it’s like it became 50 percent — so I gave 80 percent, they received 70 percent of it. I’m talking about, like, a college. So in a middle school, elementary school, it is very bad. They’re not being educated at all.”
“He knew the risks. So it would be right before he left here, after he graduated, he came to Lincoln. I was in Lincoln, Nebraska, by the time. And then he said he would go back home, he would open schools. And we tried to convince him to stay. We just told him, ‘You could be arrested.’ He said he knew the risks, but he said, ‘Somebody has to do it. A lot of people, they want to send their kids to Uighur school, but there is no school.'”
“It does not look good at all. They’re brutally cracking down. You know, so many things happened after Abduweli had been arrested. So, I mean, for Chinese government, the priority is those attacks. So Abduweli might stay without any sentencing for years in the jail, who knows? So, yeah, I wish he could get a fair trial as soon as possible, but by the time he gets his fair trial, by the time he gets his freedom, I don’t know what will happen to him.”
It's HERE AND NOW. And now a fascinating story from China. Chinese police are clamping down on what they're calling Uighur terror groups after that deadly marketplace attack in the western province of Xinjang last week.
The Uighurs are Muslims who see themselves as culturally and ethnically closer to central Asian nations. In the early 1900s, they declared independence but were brought under the complete control of communist China in 1949. Subsequent attempts at independence failed disastrously.
In addition to the Uighurs rounded up after that marketplace attack, other Uighurs with no history of violence are behind bars in China as well. And one of them is Abduweli Ayup. After getting a degree at the University of Kansas, he returned to China to open Uighur language schools. And last August he was arrested on what his supporters say are trumped up charges of illegal fundraising. His family said last winter he'd taken ill. And international organizations have stepped up efforts to release him - lobbying in Washington, starting an online petition and a Facebook page. Anwar Mamat grew up with this Ayup in China and reunited with him when they were both at school in the U.S. He joins us from WYPR in Baltimore, Maryland. And, Anwar, tell us first, Uighur, the Turkic language, how important is that to you?
ANWAR MAMAT: Everything. It's my mother language. It's language for almost 20 million Uighurs. And the language we've spoken for 2,000 more years. So elementary school, middle school, high school, everything was in Uighur, and we had one course called Chinese. So we learned Chinese because it's the official language. So books I have read, movies I've seen "Godfather" ...
MAMAT: Yeah, I saw the movie in Uighur. I have the book in Uighur.
YOUNG: And I'm imagining that this was a part of holding on to your indigenous cultural identity even though you couldn't separate as the Uighur people had wanted from China.
MAMAT: Yes, yes. The language is, you know, one of the most important identity...
YOUNG: So your friend, Abduweli Ayup, goes back to China to open Uighur language schools. But this is in a very changed climate. We hear Chinese policy has greatly changed now. What's the attitude toward Uighur language?
MAMAT: Yeah, now - I mean, everything, as I said, when I was a child, I mean, we studied math, geography, physics - all those subjects we studied in Uighur. And then we had one course called Chinese. Now everything is the other way around.
They teach them everything in Chinese, and they have one course called Uighur. They learn grammar maybe as one course. So Uighur teachers, they're teaching Uighur kids in Chinese.
YOUNG: What does that do to the kids because they haven't learned Chinese yet? They've been in a Uighur language community.
MAMAT: Yeah, they - when they reach elementary schools, they're supposed to know Chinese. But the reality is - I worked in the biggest university in Xinjian, the Xinjiang University for three years. I taught computer science there. I used to teach Uighur kids in Chinese.
So I'll give an example. I teach computer science in Chinese. So if I can explain something in Uighur, my mother language 100 percent, probably I could explain that in Chinese like 80 percent. And then the students, the Uighur students, they digest that Chinese into their language probably so they can get 70 percent out of it. So it's like it became 50 percent. So I gave 80 percent. They received 70 percent of it. I'm talking about, like, a college. So in a middle school, elementary school, it is very bad.
YOUNG: One of the thoughts of your friend, Abduweli, was to go start Uighur language schools so that the kids could have this opportunity as you did to learn. And he got a master's in linguistics from the University of Kansas, returned to China. But he did this at a time when he must have known that the Chinese were cracking down.
MAMAT: He knew the risks. So right before he left, after he graduated, he came to Lincoln. I was in Lincoln, Nebraska by that time. And then he said he would go back home. He would open schools.
And we tried to convince him to stay. We just told him, you could be arrested. He said he knew the risks. But he said somebody has to do it. A lot of people they want to send their kids to Uighur schools, but there is no school.
YOUNG: Well, he became something of a superstar there. He appeared on television. People in the U.S. were talking with him online. The spotlight landed on him, and now he's arrested - probably your worst fears because you told him not to go.
What do you think happens here? The president of China, right before that marketplace attack, passed through the region and talked about how we are all going to get in line, you know, really sent out the message that there was going to be a crackdown even before the attacks. Some think the attack might have been a response to that. It does not look good for your friend.
MAMAT: It does not look good at all. They're brutally cracking down. You know, too many things happen after Abduweli been arrested. So, I mean, for Chinese government the priorities, those attacks. So Abduweli may stay without any sentencing for years in the jail. Who knows?
So, yeah, I wish he could get a fair trial as soon as possible, But by the time he gets his fair trial, by the time he gets his freedom, I don't know what will happen to him.
YOUNG: But on the other hand, it is largely assumed that this attack was by militant Uighurs. There have been other attacks in which direct ties were made to Uighurs. There was a massacre at a train station, 29 people were killed, the knife attack at the marketplace, six people killed. Look, there's decades of simmering anger. But what would you say to your fellow Uighurs who many assume are behind these attacks?
MAMAT: I condemn - I'm against any kind of violence. I mean, killing innocent people is wrong, very wrong. But the thing is, why? I mean, why those things are happening there? So why don't we look at the core reasons?
I mean, Chinese government, instead of doing this severe punishment or collective punishment, they should look at the reason. It's obvious, I mean, even many U.S. scholars wrote articles on this as a main reason, a personal I think, this Chinese immigration.
Fifty years ago it was like 5 percent Chinese. Now it became 60 percent Chinese. You know, millions of Chinese people came to occupy this land at the same time Uighurs started get discriminated. They don't have jobs. They cannot practice religion. They cannot speak their language. Then that's what happens.
YOUNG: Well, you are here now speaking about your childhood friend, the jailed Uighur linguist, Abduweli Ayup. If you had a message to give him in Uighur, what would you say?
MAMAT: (Speaking Uighur). That means take care of yourself. Be good. Be healthy. I don't know - because last year there was news he was sick. And we don't have any news if he's alive, if he's OK, if he's healthy. So I'm very concerned actually.
YOUNG: Yeah. Well, thank you for speaking to us about it.
YOUNG: And we'll continue to follow this story. HERE AND NOW. Transcript provided by NPR, Copyright NPR.
Robin Young and Jeremy Hobson host Here & Now, a live two-hour production of NPR and WBUR Boston.
The international correspondent has spent more time in the embattled country than any other Western TV reporter.
After a video of a crowd yelling at a busload of refugees went viral, a Dresden resident organized a mini relief effort.
St. Louis University law professor Justin Hansford says Black Lives Matters activists see local politics as one way to effect change.
Only one in three employees in the U.S. say they're "engaged" with their work. A new book helps readers seek purpose in their jobs.