2014-04~06
http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/editorial/24-May-2014/trouble-in-xinjiang

Trouble in Xinjiang
An explosion ripped through a crowded marketplace in Xinjiang province, China, on Thursday at a time when the place was filled to the brim with innocent civilians. The attack resulted in some 30 people killed and close to 100 injured. It was a surprise attack even though Xinjiang is known as a troubled and restive region. Attacks in the past have comprised of strikes against government officials and the police, symbols of authority. However, Thursday’s attack in a market place in the regional capital of Urumqi betrays the change in strategy, organisation and targeting of civilians instead of key power figures. Xinjiang is in the midst of the separatist struggle by Uighur separatists — Turkic Islamist militants — who refuse to accept that the province is a part of China. They are waging their war to exert their belief that Xinjiang is actually East Turkistan and not China. One does not have to stress that the Chinese authorities are not happy about the volatile situation in its territory. An attack against civilians no matter where is one that needs to be condemned at all levels, from the government down. However, as with the case of terrorism anywhere, it needs to be tackled in a way where a political solution and consensus is sought to address the grievances, real or perceived, of the Uighur people. Pakistan of all places should know what the government in China is going through and the measures that need to be taken to quell the movement, which goes by the name of the East Turkestan Independence Movement (ETIM). During the Afghan war, Pakistan has unfortunately played host to militants of all Islamic hues and colours, violating our sovereignty and launching attacks on another country. There is no doubt that the conflict in Xinjiang has some roots in our tribal areas. It is of paramount importance that the government in Pakistan do something about the refuge given to militants in our tribal areas, especially when it comes to China, a country that has always stayed true to its relationship with Pakistan. China has remained an ally through thick and thin and we cannot afford to offend it by giving any kind of sanctuary to militants causing trouble in Xinjiang. Whether it is Afghanistan or China, we need to do a lot of troubleshooting to fix relations with our neighbouring countries.   *

 Finally, government has diverted its attention to the actual area of concern. It has announced that ...

 The latest round of rallies held by the Pakistan People’s Party in protest over the ...

 It will be no exaggeration to suggest that the decade-long Soviet-Afghan war, which started in ...