2014-04~06
http://www.bjreview.com.cn/se/txt/2014-05/04/content_616554.htm

International Community Condemns Xinjiang Terrorist Attack -- Beijing Review
Wednesday's terrorist attack in Xinjiang, which killed three people and injured 79 others, has drawn condemnation worldwide.
Washington on Thursday condemned the attack, which it said "appears to be an act of terrorism that targeted random members of the public".
"The United States condemns the horrific and despicable acts of violence against innocent civilians at the train station in Urumqi in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region of China," U.S. State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf told reporters.
"We offer our condolences and sympathies to the victims, their families and all those affected by this tragedy," she said.
The South African government on Friday denounced the violence in the strongest possible terms.
"The South African government condemns all forms of terrorism. We believe that terrorism in any form and from whichever quarter cannot be condoned," the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) said in a statement.
The government sent its deepest condolences to the Chinese government and the people, in particular to the families of the deceased, and wished the injured speedy recoveries, the statement said.
Singapore also "strongly condemns" the bomb blast, the city-state's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said Friday.
The ministry said "such dastardly acts of violence against innocent members of the public cannot be justified under any circumstances."
"We hope that the perpetrators will be apprehended and brought to justice."
Dmitry Mironchik, spokesperson for the Foreign Ministry of Belarus, said his country condemned all forms of terrorism and supported China's stance and actions in combating terrorism.
He also expressed grief for the victims and extended condolences to their relatives on behalf of his country.
Qatar's Foreign Ministry also criticized the attack in a statement, calling it a criminal act that went against human moral values.
Qatar condemned this kind of terrorist attack and supported China's efforts to safeguard national security and stability, Minister of Foreign Affairs Khalid bin Mohamed Al-Attiyah said.
Koy Kuong, spokesman for the Cambodian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said Saturday the terrorist acts in China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, were hateful and cruel crimes that could not be tolerated.
"Cambodia always condemns terrorist acts in all forms because these terrorist acts are threatening the security and safety of innocent people and hinder social and economic development," he told Xinhua. "Cambodia fully supports measures taken by the Chinese government to suppress and curb all forms of terrorist acts so as to ensure security and safety for innocent people."
Senior lawmaker Chheang Von, chairman of the Cambodian National Assembly's Foreign Affairs Commission, said Saturday terrorist acts were inhumane acts that were globally condemned.
"Terrorism is a global concern and concerted efforts are needed to fight against it," he told Xinhua. "We strongly support China to carry out strict security measures to root out terrorist acts and to bring perpetrators to the court of law for legal punishment."
Two suspects and one civilian were killed in the attack Wednesday evening at a railway station in Urumqi, capital of northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.
An initial police investigation found knife-wielding mobs slashed people at the exit of the South Railway Station of Urumqi and set off explosives, local authorities said.