2014-04~06
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/state-television-releases-footage-attacks-xinjiang-militants

State television releases footage of attacks by Xinjiang militants | TODAYonline
BEIJING — Chinese state television yesterday showed dramatic footage of what the government calls terrorist attacks by Islamist militants from the far-western region of Xinjiang, as it steps up its propaganda campaign to counter an upsurge in violence.
The images, shown on CCTV’s English-language channel as part of a programme on the threat China says it faces in Xinjiang, include surveillance camera footage of an attack at the northern end of Beijing’s Tiananmen Square last October.
Five people were killed and 40 others injured when a car ploughed into a crowd and burst into flames. The dead included three people in the car identified by the authorities as Islamists from Xinjiang.
In the colour footage, not shown before in such detail, the car sped through the crowd and rammed into pedestrians, as a black flag with what looks like Arabic lettering flew out of the car. The back of the vehicle was then shown to be on fire.
“The tourists didn’t stand a chance,” the narrator says. Later, it showed what it said was a video made by the militants before the attack, wearing black bandanas, praying, burning a Chinese flag and spitting on an American flag.
“The group pledged to launch a holy war. Inspired by their misreading of Islam, they filmed themselves calling for jihad,” the CCTV narrator says. China sentenced three people to death last week for their role in planning the attack.
Xinjiang is the home of Muslim Uighurs who speak a Turkic language. China says the main group responsible for attacks in Xinjiang is the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM). Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government’s repressive policies in Xinjiang, including restrictions on religious practices, have provoked unrest, allegations denied by Beijing. CCTV said the ETIM spreads its message in China via the Internet, with much of its material, including manuals on making bombs, uploaded in Turkey.
About 200 people have died in attacks blamed on Xinjiang militants in the past year and the authorities have launched a campaign to stem the unrest, detaining hundreds and executing a dozen others. Reuters