2014-04~06
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/10787202/Inform-on-your-neighbour-if-he-grows-a-big-beard-says-China.html

Inform on your neighbour if he grows a big beard says China - Telegraph
Authorities in China's restive Xinjiang region are offering cash to informants who report on neighbours with excessive facial hair, state media has reported.
Officials in Shaya county issued a notice offering rewards ranging from 50 to more than 50,000 yuan ($8 to $8,000) for a wide array of information including tips on those growing beards, the Global Times said on Thursday.
Xinjiang has been hit by periodic deadly clashes between authorities and members of the mainly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority, among whom beards are a religious and cultural tradition.
China has blamed the violence on separatists with ties to foreign terrorist groups, while rights groups say authorities exaggerate the threat to justify religious and cultural restrictions on Uighurs.
Financial rewards on offer in Shaya also cover information on locals "conducting illegal religious activities", the Global Times said, without giving further details.
Xinjiang authorities have also launched a campaign labelled Project Beauty, which attempts to discourage locals from wearing veils – a common practice among Uighur women.
Residents of the desert oasis city of Kashgar told AFP that to enter government offices, banks or courts, women had to remove their veils and men must be clean-shaven.
Xinjiang – which covers a sixth of China's territory – is a strategically important region which abuts Central Asia and contains significant oil and gas deposits.
Police blamed suspects from the region for crashing a car in Beijing's Tiananmen Square last October, killing two tourists and the three people in the vehicle. The incident led President Xi Jinping to call for a security push.
Ilham Tohti, an outspoken Uighur academic who challenged the government's account of the crash, was arrested on terrorism charges this year, provoking an outcry from the United States and European Union.
Authorities also accused Xinjiang residents of carrying out a stabbing spree in March in the southwestern city of Kunming that left more than 30 people dead.

Azaleas in full bloom, a huge airship and Obama meets Castro


Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital
