2014-04~06
http://www.salon.com/2014/05/02/china_points_to_suicide_blast_in_urumqi_attack/

China points to suicide blast in Urumqi attack - Salon.com
URUMQI, China (AP) — Chinese authorities say that two religious extremists carried out a terror attack at a train station in far-western Xinjiang region by detonating explosives, in an apparent suicide bombing that also killed one other person and wounded 79.
The strike late Wednesday in Urumqi was the third high-profile attack in seven months blamed on Xinjiang extremists that targeted civilians. These attacks, two of them outside the region, have marked a departure from a previous pattern of primarily targeting local authorities in a long-simmering insurgency.
A 57-year-old woman being treated at the Xinjiang Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital said she had just arrived from Sichuan province and was walking outside the station to meet her son when the explosives went off and knocked her to the ground.
“I saw I had shreds of flesh and blood in my hair and on my clothes. It was terrifying,” said the woman, who would give only her surname, Peng.
The attack prompted increased security in Urumqi, and in China’s capital Beijing, police held a terror response drill at the city’s main railway station in the early hours of Friday.
Police based at the station arrived on the scene of a hypothetical attack within 50 seconds, with anti-terror, SWAT, criminal investigation and traffic control units all turning up within 15 minutes. Photos on the police force’s microblog showed officers wearing helmets and body armor and toting submachine guns and other weapons.
The official website for Xinjiang’s regional government said police identified two suspects with a history of religious extremism, including a 39-year-old man from southern Xinjiang.
It did not explicitly call Wednesday’s attack in the regional capital of Urumqi a suicide bombing, but said the two men detonated explosives at a train station exit and both died on the spot.
Chinese President Xi Jinping demanded “decisive” action against terrorism after the attack, which came at awkward time for him, just as he was wrapping up a four-day tour of Xinjiang aimed at underlining the government’s commitment to security in the region. It was unclear if he was still in Xinjiang when the explosions took place.
“The battle to combat violence and terrorism will not allow even a moment of slackness,” Xi said in comments published on the front page of official newspapers Thursday and carried by state television.
The blasts went off about 7 p.m. just after a train had pulled into the station and as passengers streamed out onto a plaza near a bus station.
Another survivor, a man who also gave only his surname, Liu, said the blast knocked many people to the ground.
“There was chaos. Everyone was panicking,” Liu said. Police and firefighters quickly arrived and Liu said the injured were taken to hospitals in ambulances and commandeered taxis.
Earlier reports in state media quoted witnesses as saying the attack also involved knifings by a group of attackers, but the regional government’s brief dispatch — saying police had solved the crime — made no mention of slashings.
Tensions between Chinese and ethnic Muslim Uighurs in Xinjiang have been simmering for years, particularly since riots in 2009 in Urumqi left nearly 200 people dead, according to official figures.
Beijing blames the violence on overseas-based instigators, but has offered little evidence. Information about events in the area about 2,500 kilometers (1,550 miles) west of Beijing is tightly controlled.
Authorities said security was tightened at all transport hubs in the city, which has a mainly Han Chinese population who are distinct from Xinjiang’s native Turkic Muslim Uighur ethnic group.
The official People’s Daily newspaper’s microblog reported Thursday that the two attackers had strapped bombs to their bodies. That would represent a new form of attack blamed on militants who so far have primarily targeted local officials with crude weapons, including knives and farm tools.
“It would mark a new escalation and start to hint at a worrying sophistication,” said Raffaello Pantucci, a terrorism expert at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies in London.
“However, it is as of yet unclear whether this incident is linked to groups outside, which is what I would say would elevate it to being one of the front lines in Islamist terror in the global sense,” Pantucci said.
Last October, three Uighurs rammed a vehicle into crowds near the Forbidden City gate in the heart of Beijing and then crashed the car in a fiery suicide attack, killing themselves and two tourists. Police quickly cleaned up the area and released few details, and it was not clear whether the attackers used some kind of explosives.
In March, five knife-wielding men and women believed to be Uighurs slashed at crowds indiscriminately at a railway station in southwestern China, killing 29 people.
While Beijing faults separatists for raising ethnic tensions, government critics say restrictive and discriminatory policies and practices have alienated the Uighurs. They say Han people have flooded Xinjiang and benefited from its economic growth while Uighurs have felt excluded.
China has smothered Xinjiang with additional security and imposed additional restrictions on Uighur travel rights, culture and religious practices. That, say Uighur activists, is exacerbating the resentments driving the violence.
“The Urumqi explosion again proves that forceful repression is not a solution to the problem,” said Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress based in Germany.
During his visit, Xi urged government officials to maintain social stability, promote growth, improve living standards and strengthen ethnic unity, according to state media reports.
Xi told officials that the long-term stability of Xinjiang is vital to the whole country’s reform, development and stability.
Associated Press writers Chris Bodeen and Ian Mader in Beijing and videojournalist Aritz Parra in Urumqi contributed to this report.
Named for the 15th-century Dutch artist known for vivid depictions of life in Hell, Detective Hieronymus “Harry” Bosch goes head to head with LA’s worst criminals. Actor Titus Welliver was handpicked by author and executive producer Michael Connelly to take Bosch from the pages to the screen.
Michael Connelly personally selected every LA location featured in the Bosch opening sequence. After 20 years with this character, Connelly wanted to be sure the show reflected the authenticity that longtime fans have appreciated over the years.
Actor Titus Welliver is the real deal. Having once considered becoming an NYC police officer, he was immediately drawn to this role. Much like Connelly’s own commitment to the character, Welliver is very passionate about remaining true to the source material.
In the series, Harry Bosch lent his expertise as a cop to Hollywood for the blockbuster movie The Black Echo, based on his own life story. The poster for the film hangs proudly in his living room, high above the Hollywood Hills.
Inspired by Michael Connelly’s books City of Bones, Echo Park, and The Concrete Blonde, the first season of Bosch introduced Amazon audiences to complex character Harry Bosch. Season 2, which features storylines from Trunk Music, The Drop and The Last Coyote premieres March 11th on Amazon Prime Video.
As an LA crime reporter early in his career, Michael Connelly worked side by side with the LAPD. With three LA homicide detectives on staff as consultants, Bosch lives up to its promise of authenticity.
Harry Bosch lives in the hills just above the Cahuenga Pass, the perfect spot to look out over the city he protects. Michael Connelly found this very spot in 1989, where he often returns to contemplate the city and find inspiration. Connelly also had his own home above Hollywood many years ago – in the High Tower apartments, where noir character Philip Marlowe lived in Robert Altman’s The Long Goodbye.
To ensure they would be able to realistically capture a cop’s perspective, the Bosch cast participated in special training with the LAPD, where they were faced with hard choices in real-life scenarios.
Michael Connelly’s inspiration for the gritty realness of Harry Bosch was often found during real testimonies while sitting in court as a reporter for the LA Times, including this defining exchange from Season 1, “How many people have you killed?” “I don’t know.”
Michael Connelly, an avid fan himself, wrote in a broadcast of an LA Dodgers game for the opening scenes of Season 1.
Stream Season 2 of the Amazon Original Series Bosch with Prime.
On the Charts: Rihanna's 'Anti' Works Its Way Back to Number One
Hulk Hogan Awarded Additional $25 Million in Gawker Sex Tape Trial
This is how El Niño is affecting California's devastating drought.
These cameras gave young cancer patients an adventure of a lifetime.
How the world's deepest lake and chilly weather created a can't-miss musical performance.
24 stunning photos of cities around the world turning their lights off to make a point.
How a video of a metal puppet hand eventually turned into an idea for accessibility.