2014-04~06
http://leadership.ng/news/371905/bomb-attack-kills-31-chinas-xinjiang-province

Bomb Attack Kills 31 In China's Xinjiang Province | Nigerian News from Leadership News
Chinese police authority said on Thursday in Beijing that a bomb explosion killed 31 people and injured another 94 in China’s restive north-west province of Xinjiang.
It said two vehicles drove into a crowd at a central market of provincial capital, Urumqi, at 7:50 a.m. and explosives were thrown out of them.
It said one of the vehicles exploded with loud bangs.
It said the emergency service vehicles are tackling the blaze and taking the injured to the hospital, while the affected areas had been cordoned off.
The incident came a day after courts in the far-western region sentenced 39 people to up to 15 years in prison for spreading videos and other content promoting terrorism.
They were the first sentenced in a crackdown leading to the arrest of 232 suspects since the beginning of April, the Xinjiang Regional Higher People’s Court said.
It followed recent terrorist attacks blamed on ethnic Uighurs, a mainly Muslim group who make up about eight million of Xinjiang’s 21.8 million people.
Chinese President Xi Jinping in response to a fatal attack in the western regional capital, Urumqi, said he would severely punish terrorists and maintain stability. (dpa/NAN)

Next Article »
D'banj, Miley Cyrus Others To Perform At 2014 World Music Awards

For Africa and Africans, migration is a way of life and this is also largely true of people of the other continents. Mobility has always been critical in sustaining or…
Since the beginning of agriculture (especially with animal husbandry), conflicts between farming and pastoralist groups have consistently featured. Be that as it may, the frequent violent clashes between the two…
Global oil prices have been fallen sharply over the past seven months, leading to significant revenue shortfalls in many energy exporting nations. From 2010 until mid-2014, world oil prices had…
The economy is critical to any society. The welfare of all individuals in any polity is based on the economic performance of that entity. Here, we have a Central Bank…
These days, the answer to the headline question comes in dollars. You have probably heard the story of the orange seller who told a potential customer that one orange now…
It is becoming very difficult to follow the list of corruption charges by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Every government ministry, department or agency is ruined by corruption.…
Several issues have been calling for the attention of President Muhammadu Buhari in recent times. Of the six or seven issues I’ve listed so far, the president has responded to…