2014-04~06
http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/news/xinhua-news-agency/140522/1st-ld-writethru-chinas-police-chief-calls-severe-punishment

1st LD-Writethru: China's police chief calls for severe punishment on Xinjiang terrorist attackers | GlobalPost
URUMQI, May 22 (Xinhua) -- China's minister of Public Security Guo Shengkun on Thursday called for doing utmost to treat the injured people in Xinjiang terrorist attack, and severely punishing those terrorists.
Guo, also a state councilor and leader of the national anti-terrorism leadership group, went to Urumqi immediately after the deadly attack.
The attack on a market in Urumqi left at least 31 dead and 94 injured on Thursday morning. Two vehicles, without license plates, broke through roadside fences and plowed into people at an open-air market at Gongyuanbei Street near Renmin Park at 7:50 a.m. and explosive devices were set off.
Evidence on the scene of the crime showed that it was a premeditated and organized terrorist attack.
After checking the scene and learning the process of the crime, Guo held a meeting in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region's publicity department, deploying the investigation of the case.
He said the incident showed the terrorists' nature of anti-human and anti-society, calling for making a thorough investigation of the case quickly, and severely punishing the terrorists in accordance with law.
"The case warned us that we should keep a vigilant eye on anti-terrorist work, and take an iron-handed attitude to launch a special campaign against terrorism in Xinjiang," said Guo.
Guo went to the People's Hospital of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (XUAR), visiting the injured people in the attack, and conveyed President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang's regards.
He urged medical staff and related departments to spare no efforts to treat the injured people.
Guo also urged to make all efforts to safeguard social stability, strengthen integrated prevention and control measures, and further screen potential dangers.
He also called for strengthened armed patrol in crowded places, control of dangerous and explosive items, and severely punish all kinds of serious crimes. Guo urged the local authorities to rely on the people and the grassroots.
Guo urged officials to keep a clear mind and a firm stance in the complicated situation, and do more to promote ethnic unity.
On Thursday night, Meng Jianzhu, head of the Commission for Political and Legal Affairs of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and a member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, also held an emergency video conference to address the Xinjiang incident.
Meng called for a more resolute attitude and more forceful measures to be taken to crack down on terrorists.