2014-04~06
http://english.cntv.cn/2014/05/16/VIDE1400224320092659.shtml

China addresses conventional and new threats in security strategy - CCTV News - CCTV.com English

Hot:
Exhibition of IPR protection
 | 
 Yuan
 | 
 Golden Era
 | 
 Four Comprehensives
 | 
 AIIB

Opinion | Panview | One Belt, One Road | Tibet | Closer to China with R.L.Kuhn
China | World | Business | Sports | Culture | Sci-Tech | Opinion | Special Reports
CCTV app for iPhone | iPad | Android Phone | I Love Africa for iOS | Android
Watch to Learn | Growing up with Chinese | Special Chinese | Travel in Chinese
CCTV-9 Docu Live | One City, One Flavor | World Heritage China | Roof of the World
Dialogue | China 24 | News Hour | Global Business | Sports Scene | Culture Express
China Video | World Video | Most Popular | Reporters | Correspondents |CCTV Interviews
Xi's speech | Military parade | Commemoration Ceremony | Patriotic songs
China is now adhering to an overall national security outlook to protect its people and territory. The new security strategy, outlined at the first meeting of the National Security Committee, is China’s plan to address increasingly complex threats at home and abroad.
A new national security strategy for China. In an earlier meeting of the newly founded National Security Committee, President Xi said the body should balance domestic and external security needs, as well as those of individual citizens and territories.
"It’s an overarching concept on security. The new approach stresses on both conventional security risks and counter-terrorism efforts," said Fu Xiaoqiang, director of Counter Terrorism Studies at the Institute of Contemporary International Relations.
Escalating sovereignty disputes are disrupting the peace off Chinese coasts.
China’s ongoing territorial disputes with the Philippines have led to 11 Chinese fishermen being detained, allegedly on charges of "illegal entry".
Tensions are rising off the Xisha islands, after China parked its biggest mobile oil rig 120 miles off the coast of Vietnam. Each country accuses the other of ramming its ships into each other in the area.
Off China’s east coast, political turmoil between China and Japan has reached an alarming level.
The U.S. presence in the area delivers reassurance for its allies, but not much so for China.
"The tension has made people worry about the real intention of the United States. China would like to develop a new major-power relationship with the United States, and expects the U.S. to respect China’s core interest," said Jia Xiudong, senior research fellow at the China Institute of International Studies.
On the domestic front, China’s facing increasing terrorist attacks, notably from Uygur extremists. Just days ago, assailants slashed at passengers and set off explosives at a train station in Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.
The attack was carried out following President Xi’s pledge to bolster national security at the frontline of anti-terrorism efforts during his recent tour to the restive region.
There was yet another outrageous attack after a similar one in Kunming city only two months earlier.
In the wake of the series of attacks, China has begun to conduct anti-terrorism riot control drills. Armed patrol in some Chinese cities are becoming a regular feature.
"Terrorist attacks have entered into a new phase in China. Internationally, the U.S. and western countries are adopting a double standard on terrorist acts in China. They link them to ethnic, religious and human rights issues. Uygur militants were emboldened by their backing," Fu said.
"Domestically, China’s facing complex economic and social situations. Some social issues in ethnic regions could have been easily taken advantage of by terrorists."
China’s also vulnerable to a rising number of cyber security threats. Revelations from former NSA contractor Edward Snowden have proved that a lot are from the United States. A central Internet security and informatization leading group was established last month to address the challenges.
The national security outlook is China’s response to the growing security challenges at home and abroad. It focuses both on homeland security, safety of ordinary Chinese, and security issues beyond the border. China is also calling on more international cooperation based on equality and mutual trust.



Share this: 
Share on twitter
Share on facebook
Share on sinaweibo
Share on email




Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Instagram
Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Wechat
Manufacturing upgrade high on agenda as China Development Forum closes

Climate Change Conference
G20, APEC Summits
Xi visits U.S.
Beijing 2022
Xi Attends BRICS Summit
Truth and Denial
July 7th Incident
Understanding the CPC
Li Attends 17th China-EU Leaders' Meeting
7th China-U.S. S&ED & 6th CPE
Dragon Boat Festival
The Basic Law
Beijing Bids for 2022 Winter Olympics
Xi Visits Kazakstan, Russia, Belarus
Nepal Earthquake
World Book Day
2015 Boao Forum
2015 Two Sessions
AirAsia Flight Crashed
