2014-04~06
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/10897645/Chinese-terrorists-on-trial-for-deadly-Tiananmen-attack.html

Chinese 'terrorists' on trial for deadly Tiananmen attack - Telegraph
At least five suspects have gone on trial in northwestern China accused of involvement in a "hideous" terrorist attack on Beijing's Tiananmen Square last October that left five people dead and 40 injured.
The incident – in which a white SUV slammed into crowds and burst into flames in one of the world's most heavily-policed public spaces – was the first in a recent wave of headline-grabbing terrorist "spectaculars" that Beijing has blamed on Islamic extremists from the predominantly Muslim province of Xinjiang.
At just after noon on October 28, 2013 a vehicle carrying three alleged terrorists smashed through barriers at the heart of the Chinese capital and went up in flames beneath a giant portrait of Chairman Mao.
Two passersby, a Chinese man and a Filipina woman, were killed in what was described as a "carefully planned, organised and premeditated" attack. The car's male driver and two passengers, identified as his wife and mother, also died.
Investigations into the attack have been cloaked in almost total secrecy, with few details about the perpetrators or their alleged motives made public.

China terror attack leaves dozens killed after bombs thrown into busy market

While those who carried out the attack died, five supposed accomplices, who were not named, were subsequently reported to have been arrested. Eight people were charged with involvement in the crime last month.
At least five of those eight went on trial on Friday morning in the Intermediate People's Court in Urumqi, Xinjiang's capital, according to CCTV, the state broadcaster.
They face charges of "organising, leading and participating in a terrorist group and endangering public security through dangerous methods," prosecutors said ahead of the trial.
In the seven months since the Tiananmen attack, China has seen at least three other major incidents in which mysterious and in some cases masked assailants have used knives or explosives to maim or kill civilians.
They include a March 1 attack in Kunming which saw a gang of eight "knife-wielding" criminals rampage through a train station; a May 1 train station attack in Urumqi that left three dead and injured at least 79; and a May 22 suicide attack on a market in the same city that killed 44.
The attacks, all linked to Xinjiang's Uighur ethnic group by Beijing, have led senior Communist officials to declare a "people's war" on terror. Xi Jinping, the president, has vowed to erect "walls made of copper and steel" and "nets spread from the earth to the sky" in a bid to capture terrorists.
Zhao Gancheng, director of South Asia Studies at the Shanghai Institute for International Studies, said the unprecedented targeting of "large public places" posed a major challenge to Beijing. "Terrorists hide in the shadows and use unpredictable methods of attack," he said.
The government was already reacting by rolling out the use of firearms among Chinese police, Prof Zhao added.
Shi Dagang, Xinjiang's deputy governor, rejected claims that failing policies and discrimination against the Turkic-speaking Uighurs were fuelling the violence.
"The common people side with the party and government because they have felt the party's care and the country's warmth, and that's the reason for the violent forces, extremists and separatists making trouble," he said, according to AFP.
"In Xinjiang only very few individuals are engaged in terrorism activities."
Gardner Bovingdon, a leading Xinjiang expert who has been blocked from entering China because of his work on the region, agreed the attacks were not widely supported.
"This is a rare moment when I actually agree with a point the Chinese government has been making – the actions of a few people perpetrating violence do not somehow represent either the views or the actions of the majority of Uighurs," said Prof Bovingdon, author of The Uyghurs: Strangers in Their Own Land. However, decades of repression and discrimination against Uighurs had contributed to recent episodes of "concentrated and explosive violence," the Indiana University professor added.
"There wouldn't be any Uighurs to recruit for violent acts – whether we are talking about suicide bombings and suicide stabbings which seems to be a new innovation of the last few months, or whether we are talking about people who rise up and protest knowing full well they will get shot – if Uighurs were broadly, deeply satisfied. I think that is axiomatic."
There was now "rising panic in Beijing" at the realisation that Xinjiang's largely disfranchised Uighur population could not be won over to the Communist Party's side.
That view was fuelling increasingly hardline measures including a crackdown on religion and the imprisonment of even moderate critics such as Ilham Tohti, a Uighur economics professor who is facing life imprisonment after being charged with "separatism".
"I think basically the government has made a determination that it is going to squelch even moderate voices of criticism," said Prof Bovingdon.

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
