2014-04~06
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/radio/program/asia-pacific/crackdown-on-suspected-uighur-activists-in-chinas-xinjiang-region/1331432

Crackdown on suspected Uighur activists in China's Xinjiang region | Asia Pacific | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
China has launched a major crackdown on what it says are Muslim terrorist groups in the western region of Xinjiang.
In one trial, three people were sentenced to death for being involved in violent, separatist attacks.
Then a report emerged that on another day, 13 people were executed for jihadist activity.
Speakers: Maya Wang, researcher for the Asia Division of Human Rights Watch; Professor Xiong Kunxin from Beijing's Minzu University
STEPHEN MCDONELL: In far western China, the full force of this country's security apparatus is being brought to bear.
Chinese television is showing images of Special Forces officers carrying out heavily-armed raids and the courts are churning out death penalty convictions for those deemed to be members of so-called 'terrorist groups' in Xinjiang.
There seems little doubt that amongst the ethnic Uighurs who call this area their homeland there are those who are prepared to use violence and murder to achieve independence from China.
What's more, the frequency of bloody events there is growing.
Barely a month goes by without another shootout following an attack on a police station or a knife assault on passengers catching trains or a bombing in a public place.
Beijing's response has been in part an on-the-ground offensive and in part a major propaganda drive.
When 13 people were executed for their alleged involvement in violent attacks, they were shown on television being put into prison vans, which were then driven through the streets of the regional capital, Urumqi, in formation before arriving at the place of execution.
Xiong Kunxin is a professor of ethnic theories and policy at Beijing's Minzu University. We asked him why there was a perceived need for such a crackdown in Xinjiang right now.
XIONG KUNXIN (translation): Recently there've been many violent and terrorist attacks in Xinjiang, causing fear amongst the people and turbulence in society. To comfort people, the government has carried out tough action against extreme religious forces and violent terrorists in Xinjiang. We need the public to believe that the government has the ability and determination to maintain ethnic unity and social stability in Xinjiang.
STEPHEN MCDONELL: But why have there been so many violent clashes recently?
First, there are different sects within Islam, including some extreme religious groups. It does seem that there is a Wahhabi sect in Xinjiang, which advocates the full restoration of religious traditions from olden times. Normal traditional believers are fine but there is a small group of religious extremists. They advocate holy war and are prepared to kill innocent people using their own bodies. The religious extremists of the Wahhabi sect caused great harm to society.
Another reason is that some people have been brain-washed by foreign extreme religious forces.
The third reason is a social one. There are many unemployed young people in the south of Xinjiang. Without a stable job or income, they are easily influenced by extreme religious forces.
STEPHEN MCDONELL: One of the trials featured in Chinese television reports included the sentencing to death of three men for their involvement in a car attack on Beijing's Tiananmen Gate. A man, his wife and mother-in-law were inside a vehicle which rammed into tourists at the historic sight. Everyone on board died when the car was said to have been deliberately ignited.
Now three other men have been given death sentences for helping plan the car raid and five more received jail terms.
Maya Wang is a researcher for the Asia Division of Human Rights Watch.
She doesn't doubt that the attacks by Uighurs have been real but questions the sophistication of them. She says that some clashes may have been local disputes which have turned violent.
Either way, Maya Wang says that getting solid information on these matters has been difficult with the trials being held behind closed doors for national security reasons.
MAYA WANG: I think obviously I think there are real violent attacks as we can see, so there are criminal activities happening. The way the government should respond to that is to hold the perpetrators accountable in a manner that is consistent with legal procedures. But so far what we have seen in Xinjiang is that the government has initiated this high level crackdown on terrorism-related crimes.
And what happens is that the government has asked the police, (inaudible), and courts to cooperate together to speed up these arrests, prosecutions, and imprisonment - or death penalty - in order to deter others from committing these crimes.
When the police and prosecutors and the judges are under immense pressure to push them through the system as fast as it is possible, you can imagine just the kind of procedures that might otherwise exist in the Chinese criminal system, they are suspended or not really complied.
So I think there are a great interest in this kind of crime crackdowns to overlook human rights and procedural protections to get quick results.
STEPHEN MCDONELL: Do you think then that some of the people that we've seen who've been executed this week in normal circumstances maybe they would've received a different penalty - a jail term or something? That possibly these executions are happening as a result of this crackdown to send a message?
MAYA WANG: I think that there's so few details about these cases that it's really difficult to venture even an opinion about the crimes and the facts of the cases, and the sentencing. So it's really difficult to tell.
But I think the way the government has carried out these sentencing and these mass arrest events in Xinjiang indicates that the authorities' interests lie in making these into publicity events, showing that the government is really serious in combating terrorism and that the government will act very swiftly to protect people's safety.
So these are more publicity rather than really delivering justice. So I think without commenting on exactly individual circumstances, I think there are concerns that in the interests of the government projecting its power to be in control, that there are some real concerns about whether or not the suspects who are executed, whether or not they have been given a fair trial.
STEPHEN MCDONELL: Maya Wang from Human Rights Watch in Hong Kong.
Whichever way you look at this problem, it is developing into a complex and worsening situation.
Xiong Kunxin says that the long term solution he envisages is an economic one but that this will not be easy.
XIONG KUNXIN (translation): Yes, it will be difficult. The government has to create opportunities for young people to receive education and to find work. I read that the government will provide free high school education for all the young people in Xinjiang. Once people are educated, it's easier to find a job.
XIONG KUNXIN (translation): There are cultural differences but this is not a huge problem. There have been many ethnic groups living in Xinjiang from ancient times to now. We can see there have been cultural exchanges and influences amongst different minorities there for a long time.
STEPHEN MCDONELL: For some Chinese officials the only appropriate response is a hard-line one and it seems Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti has been caught up in this.
The economist has been a vocal critic of government policy in Xinjiang and for the crime of speaking out, he too has been taken away.
There have been reports that he may have already faced a secret trial. If found guilty of "attempting to split the motherland," this academic also potentially faces the death penalty.
Yet his real crime was being able to deliver a coherent, plausible critique of Beijing's Xinjiang policies; a critique that helped to explain why so many Uighurs might not be happy with their day to day lives.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
Got something to say about what you're hearing on the radio right now?
TweetsAdd the hashtag #raonair to add your tweets to the conversation.
EmailEmail us your thoughts on an issue. Messages may be used on air.
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.