2014-04~06
http://www.marketplace.org/email-newsletter/newsletter-05222014

Weekend Newsletter template
Google, in a letter to the SEC, imagined a world where ads would be delivered in some pretty odd places: refrigerators, car dashboards, and thermostats, for starters. Which raises an interesting question: How will we ignore ads when they are in our thermostats, our cars, and our dashboards?
And, fancy drinks—your lattes, mochas and the like—have been getting fancier cups lately. Double-walled paper, compostable, recycled... you name it. As a result, the paper cup industry is on the rise, and it’s edging out the old go-to in to-go cups, polystyrene, usually known as styrofoam. The buzzword in the industry: sustainability.

 DOW +27.82 (+0.21%) ;
 NASDAQ +7.80 (+0.26%)
 S&P 500 +3.99 (+0.24%)

Chinese officials are calling it a terrorist attack. Early this morning in the western city of Urumqi, 31 people were killed and at least 90 others injured when vehicles plowed into a crowded market and then exploded. It’s the latest in a series of attacks in China. In March, a knife attack by a group of men killed dozens in Southwest China, and just a few weeks ago, a bombing and knife attack at a train station in Urumqi, injured dozens more. China’s government have blamed the previous attacks on Uighur separatists -- Uighurs are an ethnic Muslim minority who live in China’s vast Northwest region of Xinjiang, a Chinese province roughly the size of Alaska that borders Central Asia. China has so far not blamed any particular group for today’s attack.
London could face new obstacles as a financial capital if Scotland votes is to become its own country and separate from the United Kingdom this fall. But economic warnings from London could change the vote of those in favor for independence...
You received this free e-mail because you previously subscribed or because it was sent to you by a friend. This e-mail was sent to the following address: EmailAddress
This newsletter is sent from an unmonitored email address. Do not reply. Please submit your questions and comments to our online contact form, or send an email to letters@marketplace.org .
© 2014 American Public Media 480 Cedar Street, Saint Paul, MN 55101 USA