2014-04~06
http://www.scotsman.com/news/world/islamists-want-to-ban-laughter-at-weddings-governor-1-3368520

Islamists want to ban laughter at weddings - governor - The Scotsman
The governor of China’s restive far-western region of Xinjiang has said Islamist militants are trying to ban laughter at weddings and crying at funerals, as he appealed to people to stamp out the “tumour” of extremism.
Xinjiang, resource-rich and strategically located on the borders of central Asia, has been beset by violence for years, blamed by the government on Islamist militants and separatists.
Exiles and many rights groups say the real cause of the unrest is China’s heavy-handed policies, including curbs on Islam and the culture and language of the Muslim Uighur inhabitants of Xinjiang.
China’s nervousness about Islamist extremism has grown since a car burst into flames on the edge of Beijing’s Tiananmen Square in October, and 29 people were stabbed to death last month in the southwestern city of Kunming.
The Chinese government has blamed Xinjiang militants for both incidents.
Writing in the official Xinjiang Daily, governor Nur Bekri said acts of terrorism had been made possible by extremists taking advantage of people’s faith, especially “young people who have seen little of the world”.
“In order to incite fanaticism and control believers, religious extremists have blatantly distorted religious teachings, making up heresy such as ‘jihadist martyrs go to heaven’, ‘killing a pagan is worth over ten years of piety’, and ‘one gets whatever one wants in heaven’,” he wrote.
“They use this to bewilder ­believers into what they believe is ‘jihad’ in the form of suicide terrorist attacks or other violence.”
People who do not follow the strictures of the Islamists are condemned by them as “traitors” and “scum”, he said.
China’s ruling atheist Communist Party has issued similar warnings in the past about extremism, accompanied by a harsh crackdown on suspected militants.
Uighurs have traditionally followed a moderate form of Islam, but many have begun adopting more conservative practices more commonly seen in Saudi Arabia or Pakistan, such as full-face veils for women, as China has intensified a security crackdown in recent years.
Mr Bekri, who is a Uighur, ­accused the militants of ignoring the region’s own traditions and of wanting to enforce a strict theocratic society.
“They … push the banning of watching television, listening to the radio, reading newspapers, singing and dancing, not allowing laughter at weddings nor crying at funerals,” he said.
“Resolutely eliminate the tumour of religious extremism,” Mr Bekri added.
By registering you are agreeing to the terms and conditions. of the website.

Registering with The Scotsman means you're ok with our terms and conditions.


 By registering you are agreeing to the
 Terms and Conditions
 of the website.


Email is already registered with OtherSite.
 You'll be able to use the same account on current Site.
 Alternatively, you can create a new account with another email address.

Enter your postcode so we can keep you up-to-date with the latest local news and exciting deals.

 is already registered with
 .
 You will be able to use the same account on .
 Alternatively, you can create a new account with another email address.
