2014-04~06
http://www.theadvocate.com.au/story/2247296/political-activist-gao-yu-feared-missing-ahead-of-tiananmen-square-massacre-anniversary/?cs=12/RK=0

Political activist Gao Yu feared missing ahead of Tiananmen Square Massacre anniversary | The Advocate

 Prominent journalist and political analyst Gao Yu has been reported missing, prompting concern for her welfare in the lead-up to the 25th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square Massacre.

Beijing: Prominent journalist and political analyst Gao Yu has been reported missing, prompting concern for her welfare in the lead-up to the 25th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square Massacre.
Friends of Ms Gao have been unable to reach the outspoken 70-year-old journalist - who was jailed twice for her political writings linked to the pro-democracy movement in 1989 - since Thursday night.
Her lawyer, Teng Biao, and other Chinese publishers and activists have said they have been unable to reach her or find her at home. On Tuesday, her home phone rang unanswered and her mobile phone was switched off.
Prominent political activists are routinely monitored in China, and their movements are often restricted in the lead-up to sensitive anniversaries, like the April 15, 1989, death of reformist leader Hu Yaobang. His death intensified a student-led pro-democracy movement in China which ultimately resulted in a government crackdown on June 4 that year, which left at least hundreds of civilians dead.
Ms Gao, who met with Fairfax Media on Thursday afternoon, said she had been warned by state security officers to remain low-key during this sensitive period. She said other friends and fellow activists and intellectuals had received similar warnings, as is common around this time of year.
“The 25th anniversary is just telling us that one-quarter of a century has past. It's not a year of breakthrough, nor a chance for China to enter democracy, not like the 1970s before Deng [Xiaoping] took power or 1989 when Hu Yaobang died,” Ms Gao told Fairfax Media in an interview. “I think China is waiting for an opportunity and the leadership is carefully guarding against this.”
Ms Gao, who was first arrested on June 3, 1989, and again in 1993 for “publishing state secrets”, spent a total of seven years in jail. She suffers from a number of medical conditions and had prominent contusions showing on her face suffered from a recent fall. Her husband died late last year.
Friends of Ms Gao raised the alarm after she failed to show up at a low-key gathering to commemorate the anniversary of the People’s Daily April 26 editorial in 1989, widely blamed for sharpening the conflict between the government and students for calling the Tiananmen pro-democracy movement an anti-party and anti-socialist upheaval, the South China Morning Post reported.
Bao Tong, a former top aide of former premier Zhao Ziyang and a friend of Ms Gao, said he was worried about her unexplained disappearance and that it showed that the “liberty and freedom of expression of Chinese people is under great threat”.
“Some people say that Gao Yu was too outspoken, and that this is what led to her persecution. Perhaps that is the reason, but that doesn't make it a legitimate reason,” Mr Bao, 82, said.
The Tiananmen Square Massacre remains a taboo subject in China. Last week, a first-ever museum dedicated to its memory opened in Hong Kong to the jeers of pro-Communist Party activists. Hong Kong, a part of China, operates under a semi-autonomous government.
Human rights groups and a number of foreign governments have expressed concern over worsening conditions for intellectuals and rights activists in China in recent months.
Cao Shunli was detained at Beijing Airport in September attempting to board a flight to Geneva to attend a UN training course. She died in detention five months later, prompting an international outcry.
Xu Zhiyong, who campaigned for equal rights to education and for political leaders to declare their assets, was sentenced to four years' jail in January for “gathering crowds to disrupt public order”.
And in another high-profile case, ethnic Uighur economist and rights campaigner Ilham Tohti has been detained since January after a raid of his Beijing home. He has been refused access to his lawyer despite potentially facing the death penalty if convicted of charges of separatism.
The story Political activist Gao Yu feared missing ahead of Tiananmen Square Massacre anniversary first appeared on The Sydney Morning Herald.
The boys are back for 2016 with a bumper edition of The Advocate's Footy Wrap
 

Prince Harry is on a five-day visit to Nepal, his first official tour of the country.
 

Delacombe mechanic poses for trophy photo after hunting down alleged car thief.
 

Australia keep their hopes of qualifying for the ICC World T20 semi-finals alive with a narrow three-wicket win ...
 
