2013-01~06
http://www.4-traders.com/news/Hao-Tian-Resources-Group-Ltd-Announcements-and-Notices-Cooperation-Agreement--16684303/

Hao Tian Resources Group Ltd. : Announcements and Notices - Cooperation Agreement

 Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited take no responsibility for the contents of this announcement, make no representation as to its accuracy or completeness and expressly disclaim any liability whatsoever for any loss howsoever arising from or in reliance upon the whole or any part of the contents of this announcement.


 This is a voluntary announcement made by Hao Tian Resources Group Limited ("Company", and together with its subsidiaries, the "Group") for the purpose of keeping shareholders and potential investors of the Company informed of its latest business development.
 The board ("Board") of directors ("Directors") of the Company is pleased to announce that on 12 April 2013, Hao Tian Oil & Gas Development Group Limited ("HTOG"), a wholly- owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a non-legally binding cooperation agreement ("Cooperation Agreement") with GCL Development Limited ("GCL Development"), which provides for the cooperation framework between the parties for possible investments in natural gas industry in the People's Republic of China.
 GCL Development is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Golden Concord Group Limited ("GCL Group"). GCL Group has its core business in green energy, energy conservation, energy storage and other businesses. To the best knowledge, information and belief of the Directors having made all reasonable enquiries, GCL Development is a third party independent of the Company and its subsidiaries and their connected persons (as defined under the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited).


 As part of the Group's strategy, the Company wishes to shift its business focus from the mining industry into the oil and gas industry and is now actively exploring investment opportunities in natural gas projects, environmental resources, new environmental materials and technologies.
 It is the intention of the Company and GCL Group to form a joint venture to commercialize natural gas resources available to the parties on the general principles of cooperation in the following major aspects:
 (1) HTOG and GCL Development (or its affiliates) will form a joint venture ("Joint Venture") to commence the natural gas business, including producing synthetic oil from natural gas (i.e. Gas to Liquids or GTL), processing of natural gas to liquids (i.e. Liquefied Natural Gas or LNG) and natural gas fueling stations. The equity proportion and detailed investment terms are subject to further negotiations and to be finalized in definitive agreement(s).
 (2) In connection with the business in synthetic oil from natural gas, GCL Development shall provide the technology for producing synthetic oil from natural gas, which is commercially and technically practical, to the Joint Venture, and HTOG shall ensure annual supply of natural gas of not less than 2 billion cubic meter with such quality satisfying all the technical requirements of the relevant national natural gas standard to the Joint Venture.
 (3) In connection with the business in liquefied natural gas, HTOG shall ensure annual supply of natural gas of not less than 0.6 billion cubic meter with such quality satisfying all the technical requirements of the relevant national natural gas standard to the Joint Venture.
 (4) HTOG and GCL Development will jointly establish not less than 20 natural gas fueling stations in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region for retail sale of the liquefied natural gas processed by the Joint Venture. HTOG shall be responsible for obtaining approvals for use of land and other regulatory approvals.


 (5) HTOG and GCL Development will jointly establish natural gas fueling stations in Anhui Province for the retail sale of the liquefied natural gas processed by the Joint Venture. GCL Development will be responsible to supply sufficient natural gas with such quality satisfying the technical requirements of the relevant national natural gas standard to the Joint Venture. HTOG shall be responsible for obtaining approvals for use of land and other regulatory approvals.
 (6) In relation to the natural gas fueling stations project in Jiangsu Province, GCL Development shall be responsible for obtaining approvals for use of land and other regulatory approvals.
 The Cooperation Agreement is valid for a period of one year from the date of signing by the parties. The parties shall negotiate in good faith the terms and conditions of the specific investments and shall observe the confidentiality provision in the Cooperation Agreement.
 The Board wishes to emphasize that the Cooperation Agreement only sets out the preliminary co-operation intention of the parties, which is not legally binding, save for, amongst others, the confidentiality provision. The contemplated joint venture, investments and structure of the possible transactions are subject to, among other things, further negotiations between the parties, signing of the definitive agreement(s), satisfaction (or waiver, as the case may be) of conditions precedent to the completion of the definitive agreement(s) (including without limitation approval from shareholders of the Company or GCL Group, relevant authorities and regulators, if appropriate). For the reasons as mentioned above, such contemplated joint venture and investments may or may not materialize or eventually be consummated. Shareholders of the Company and potential investors are urged to exercise caution when dealing in the shares of the Company.
 By Order of the Board of


 As at the date of this announcement, the Board comprises two executive Directors, namely Mr. Xu Hai Ying and Dr. Zhiliang Ou, JP (Australia) and three independent non-executive Directors, namely Mr. Chan Ming Sun Jonathan, Mr. Ma Lin, and Mr. Lam Kwan Sing.
