2013-01~06
http://www.chinapost.com.tw/china/national-news/2013/07/01/382471/China-terrorists.htm

China 'terrorists' riot in latest Xinjiang clash: report - The China Post
The latest unrest took place in the prefecture of Hotan on Friday, where the group "(attacked) a number of people with weapons after gathering at local religious venues," the state-run Global Times said on Saturday.
It followed clashes on Wednesday that were the deadliest to hit the western desert region — home to around 10 million members of the mostly Muslim Uyghur minority — since 2009, when riots killed around 200 people.
Radio Free Asia, which is funded by the U.S. government, quoted a resident as saying that local Uyghurs were angry police had "stormed into the mosque and surrounded it" during prayers last week because the local imam had deviated from an officially sanctioned sermon.
It also quoted a source as saying police opened fire on Uyghurs as they left a local mosque.
"Young Uyghurs on motorcycles were leaving the mosque, they were shouting religious slogans ... The police were frightened and started shooting at them ... At least two died and one was injured," the report said.
A state-run news website, Tianshan Web, said that no members of the public had been killed or injured, without stating whether police or government staff had died.
China's President Xi Jinping said, following the attacks, that "(the incidents) must be handled quickly to guarantee the general stability of the society," Tianshan Web reported on Saturday.
China often labels outbreaks of sporadic unrest in the region as terrorism — claims denied by Uyghur rights groups who blame unrest on economic inequality and religious repression.
It was not possible to verify details of Wednesday's clash independently as reporters were barred from entering the town, detained and later followed by local police.
The Uyghur American Association, run by exiled members of the minority, said a "blackout of news" on attacks in the region cast doubt on Chinese government claims in a statement released on Saturday.
"The state then uses its propaganda apparatus to label the incident 'terrorism' without presenting any evidence that can be independently proved," the group said.