2013-01~06
http://www.watoday.com.au/world/ethnic-riots-kill-dozens-in-china-20130627-2ozsa.html

Ethnic riots kill dozens in China
Twenty-seven people have died in mob attacks on police stations and other buildings in China's Muslim north-west, in the latest deadly incident to undermine Beijing's claims of harmonious ethnic relations.
Attackers stabbed several police and security officials and set police cars on fire, according to state news agency Xinhua.
Nine members of police and security forces were killed in Lukqun, a remote township in Turpan prefecture in the resource-rich region of Xinjiang. Eight civilians were also killed and officers shot and killed 10 of the alleged assailants, Xinhua said.
The violence appeared to be the deadliest in the restive region since July 2009, when almost 200 people died in riots in Xinjiang's capital, Urumqi. And in April, 21 people died in clashes near Kashgar, China's westernmost city.
China is dominated by the Han ethnic group, but Xinjiang is home to the Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking, mostly Muslim people. Many people there complain that China's authorities impose discriminatory policies, increase Han immigration to dilute the indigenous population and extract resources to benefit the rest of China.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the exiled, Germany-based World Uighur Congress, blamed this week's clashes on ''continuous repression and provocation'', as well as a burst of detentions of Uighurs in the area.
''This clash did not happen by chance,'' he said. ''There have been sweeps and crackdowns in the area, leading to many Uighur men disappearing, and the authorities have refused to give information about their whereabouts.''
Nicholas Bequelin, a senior researcher for Human Rights Watch, said there seemed to be ''a worrying increase in the number of violent incidents against a background of ever-increasing political, religious and cultural restrictions''.
The region has grown popular with increasingly affluent Han tourists from the rest of China, who flock to join tours along the old Silk Road.
The most recent clashes happened about 100 kilometres from the tourist mecca of Turpan and very close to a scenic desert area visited by tour groups in Shanshan county.
Get notified when the big things happen. Sign up to our newsletter.