2013-01~06
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/10014432/China-terror-incident-in-Xinjiang-kills-21-people.html

China 'terror incident' in Xinjiang 'kills 21 people' - Telegraph
"Twenty-one persons were killed in all ... including social workers and policemen," an official surnamed Cao from the provincial government's news office said of the incident, which, he added, occurred on Tuesday.
Gunfights broke out in Bachu county in the west of the province after police went to search the home of locals suspected of possessing illegal knives, a report on Tianshan Net, a government-run news website, said.
It said 15 of those killed were either police or social workers, with 11 of them being members of China's Uighur ethnic minority, who live mainly in Xinjiang and are mostly Muslim.
A further six "gang members" were shot dead in the violence, while eight more were arrested, the report said, without giving their identities. The local official, Cao, identified them as Uighurs.
The report said an investigation showed that the gang members had been plotting to carry out "terrorist activities", and branded the fighting a "violent terror incident".

China terror attack leaves dozens killed after bombs thrown into busy market


Chinese police kill 13 ‘terrorists’ after ‘bomb attack’ on police station

Xinjiang, a region about twice the size of Turkey, is home to around nine million ethnic Uighurs, many of whom complain of religious and cultural repression by Chinese authorities. The region is regularly hit by unrest.
Officials and state media blame the unrest on "terrorists" but some experts say the government has produced little evidence of an organised terrorist threat, adding the violence stems more from long-standing local resentment.
China has repeatedly accused ethnic Uighurs of carrying out terrorist activities in the province, where 20 men were jailed in March on terrorism charges, which a Uighur rights group branded "repressive".
Riots between Uighurs and members of China's Han ethnic majority in Xinjiang's capital Urumqi in 2009 killed around 200 people, leading the ruling Communist Party to tighten surveillance and boost investment in the region.
The province saw more than half of China's "endangering state security" trials last year, but is home to less than two per cent of the country's population, suggesting "ethnic discrimination", the Dui Hua Foundation advocacy group said.
According to official figures, 46 per cent of Xinjiang's population is Uighur, while another 39 per cent are Han Chinese, after millions moved to the area in recent decades.

Azaleas in full bloom, a huge airship and Obama meets Castro


Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital
