2013-01~06
http://www.ohio.com/news/china-media-blast-shakes-xinjiang-train-station-1.484615

China media: blast shakes Xinjiang train station - News - Ohio
Click here to read or leave a comment(s) on this story.
To celebrate the historic opening of its record-shattering new roller coaster, Cedar Point is once again turning to NBA superstar LeBron James to mark the occasion.
CLEVELAND: It’s not the title they ultimately want, but it’s a start.
Browns head of football operations Sashi Brown insisted the franchise didn't revoke its contract offer to right tackle Mitchell Schwartz in the hours leading up to the start of free agency on March 9.
NFL Network and ProFootballTalk.com reported the Browns pulled their offer to Schwartz, who signed a five-year, $33 million deal with the Kansas City Chiefs after negotiations between the Browns and his agent, Deryk Gilmore, fell through.
"No offer pulled," Brown said Monday at the NFL owners meetings in Boca Raton, Fla.
Asked to elaborate on what happened during the talks involving Schwartz, Brown said, "I think enough has been said about it. I think a lot of players left their teams. I’ve seen a lot of their agents mouth off in the media, and I’ll just leave it at that."
Outside linebacker Armonty Bryant faces an uncertain future with the Browns after receiving a four-game suspension three weeks ago from the NFL for violating its policy on performance-enhancing drugs.
The league could suspend Bryant additional games because he was indicted last month on two counts of felony drug possession stemming from a traffic stop on Christmas morning. He has pleaded not guilty.
"Not going to comment on Armonty," Browns head of football operations Sashi Brown said Monday at the NFL owners meetings in Boca Raton, Fla., when asked if the team has considered cutting Bryant. "Obviously he's in the legal process now. He's also in the process of meeting with the NFL as well in regards to his incident, so we'll let that play out and determine. We're not going to make any immediate decisions on Armonty. I think we've got to figure out what those things look like and let those play out."
Bryant, 25, is eligible to participate in the Browns' offseason conditioning program, which will begin April 4.
Browns head of football operations Sashi Brown conceded it's "too early to tell at this point" whether two-time Pro Bowl cornerback Joe Haden will be ready for the 2016 regular-season opener after undergoing surgery on his left ankle last week.
"We don't know enough about it, but we do know that Joe and we were disappointed obviously to hear that Joe was going to need surgery," Brown said Monday at the NFL owners meetings in Boca Raton, Fla. "The first we heard about it was probably a week before last, maybe about 10 days ago."
Brown revealed Haden was hurt during an offseason workout. He also injured the same ankle Nov. 1 against the Arizona Cardinals. It was his last action of the year because he also suffered his second concussion of the season against the Cardinals and missed the final eight games. The Browns listed him with a concussion and ankle injury the week after the game, and he wasn’t cleared from the NFL’s concussion protocol until Jan. 12.
"He had mentioned he had hurt his ankle in, I think, the Cardinals game initially, that he had some sprain of the ankle," Brown said. "Whether it's tied to that I don't know. I know he did injure it in an offseason workout."
The Browns expect to learn whether the NFL will reinstate former All-Pro wide receiver Josh Gordon any day now, but they don't know exactly when his fate will be determined.
"We're holding tight, and if something positive comes out, great," head of football operations Sashi Brown said Monday at the NFL owners meetings in Boca Raton, Fla. "If not, we'll prepare for that, too."
On Feb. 25 at the NFL Scouting Combine, Brown made it clear the team was willing to welcome Gordon back, but he didn't seem as enthusiastic about the prospect Monday.
"If Josh comes back, great," Brown said. "And if he doesn't, we're ready."
Since the Browns let four starters slip away two weeks ago at the start of free agency, there has been rampant speculation about the team trading nine-time Pro Bowl left tackle Joe Thomas amid a total rebuild of its roster.
But Browns head of football operations Sashi Brown insisted Monday dealing Thomas is not in the cards.
"That's not our plan at all," Brown said during the NFL owners meetings in Boca Raton, Fla. "I know it's been written about a lot. But that's as simple as I can say it."
What if another team offers the Browns a first-round draft pick for Thomas?
Click the link for an updated version of this story: Browns flirt with idea of signing Robert Griffin III, downplay interest in trading for Colin Kaepernick
Browns head of football operations Sashi Brown suggested Monday the possibility of the team signing free-agent quarterback Robert Griffin III is much more likely than it trading for San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick.
Brown also said acquiring a veteran quarterback wouldn't preclude the organization from drafting a quarterback high April 28. The Browns have the second overall pick and could use to it select California's Jared Goff or North Dakota State's Carson Wentz as the franchise's quarterback of the future.
Brown, coach Hue Jackson and chief strategy officer Paul DePodesta spoke to four local beat writers during breakfast at the NFL owners meetings in Boca Raton, Fla.
The Browns announced Thursday they signed free safety Rahim Moore. His one-year deal was reported Wednesday. The team also announced wide receiver Terrelle Pryor and safety Don Jones have signed their qualifying offers as restricted free agents.
In addition, defensive back Don Jones and wide receiver Terrelle Pryor have signed their qualifying offers as restricted free agents.
The Browns and free safety Rahim Moore have agreed to contract terms, a source familiar with the situation confirmed Wednesday.
The Houston Texans cut Moore on March 3 after he was benched during the first season of a three-year, $12 million contract.
Moore, 26, started six of the seven games in which he appeared last season before the demotion. He had 16 tackles and two passes defensed, including one interception. He was inactive for the final nine regular-season games and the Texans' postseason loss.
Click the link for an updated version of this story: Browns cut inside linebacker Karlos Dansby, sign Demario Davis as replacement
The Browns have informed veteran inside linebacker Karlos Dansby they're cutting him after signing Demario Davis earlier Wednesday, a source familiar with the situation confirmed.
Dansby, 34, will leave Cleveland with two years left on the four-year, $24 million deal he signed in 2014, which included $12 million guaranteed. He started all 28 games in which he appeared with the Browns, missing four two years ago with a sprained knee.
Click the link for an updated version of this story: Browns cut inside linebacker Karlos Dansby, sign Demario Davis as replacement
The Browns have agreed to contract terms with former New York Jets inside linebacker Demario Davis, a source familiar with the situation confirmed Wednesday morning for the Beacon Journal.
The team is expected to announce it signed Davis later Wednesday. 
It's a two-year deal worth a maximum of $8 million, including $4.2 million guaranteed, a source said.
CLEVELAND: Twenty thoughts for Channing Frye’s plus-20 in Monday’s 124-91 win over the Denver Nuggets…
1.      The Cavaliers clinched their fifth Central Division championship and ninth 50-win season Monday. LeBron James recorded his second triple-double of the season and 41st of his career. His 33 points matched the Nuggets’ entire starting lineup. And yet all anyone wants to talk about is his social media habits. Again.
2.      It has been that kind of season for the Cavs, who sometimes can’t seem to get out of their own way. That applies to James today after he unintentionally created a firestorm by unfollowing the Cavs’ Twitter account Monday.
CLEVELAND: It’s not the title they ultimately want, but it’s a start.
LeBron James had 33 points, 11 rebounds and 11 assists and the Cleveland Cavaliers clinched the Central Division with a 124-91 victory Monday night against the Denver Nuggets. It’s the fifth division title in team history and also marked their ninth 50-win season while serving as James’ second triple-double of the season and the 41st of his career.
Channing Frye scored 14 points as a replacement for Kevin Love, who did not play because he was ill. J.R. Smith scored 15 points and Matthew Dellavedova had 10 points and seven assists off the bench. Kyrie Irving had eight points and three assists.
“I think a 50-win season in this league, it’s not every year you can do that,” Cavs coach Tyronn Lue said. “It just shows the hard work the guys have put in to get to this point.”
MIAMI: Twenty-three thoughts for 23 defensive rebounds in Saturday’s 122-101 loss to the Miami Heat…
1.      While players showered and dressed in a stone silent postgame locker room, the Spurs and Warriors were on the television playing a brand of basketball the Cavs haven’t displayed very often this season. The defense, the ball movement, the help defense, the spacing, the pick-and-roll defense, the intensity and that defense…
2.      The Cavs are 5-3 in their last eight games. Two of those losses have been hideous – the home loss to Memphis’ D-League team and now getting boat raced here for the second time this season. Throw in the loss at Washington last month when they also trailed by 30 and the Cavs seem to be trending in the wrong direction at the worst possible time. They have just 13 games left before the playoffs.
MIAMI: Ninety minutes before tipoff Saturday night, Tyronn Lue announced he was starting Timofey Mozgov at center against the Miami Heat’s small ball lineup. By the time the official lineup sheets were distributed 45 minutes later, Lue had changed his mind.
Mozgov was out, Iman Shumpert was in. The Cavs may have matched the Heat’s small lineup in stature, but they sure didn’t match their energy and intensity. Nor could they match the Heat’s incredible shot-making and rebounding.
The Heat blitzed the Cavs from the start Saturday and led by as many as 31 on their way to an easy 122-101 victory at AmericanAirlines Arena, the Cavs’ 11th consecutive defeat in this building. They couldn’t beat LeBron James when he was here and now James can’t beat his former team in his old building.
That could be cause for concern in the postseason, when the Heat could serve as a viable second-round opponent for a Cavs team that can outclass most everyone in the East. Their lead over the idle Toronto Raptors, however, is down to 1 1/2 games for the best record in the East.
ORLANDO, FLA.: Eighteen thoughts for 18 points from LeBron James in Friday’s 109-103 win over the Orlando Magic…
1.      Channing Frye lounged back in his chair in the visitors locker room and finished buttoning his white Polo. “This is my ‘still living in a hotel’ shirt,” he joked. “From the 2007 Polo collection.’”
2.      Frye may not have a permanent home in Cleveland, but he seems to have one in the Cavs’ rotation. He has appeared in the last seven games and has consistently played about 20 minutes in each of the last five. He supplanted Kevin Love in the fourth quarter Friday, leaving an ill Love on the bench while playing nearly the entire quarter. The Cavs outscored the Magic by 10 points in the fourth while Frye was on the floor.
ORLANDO, FLA.: Kyrie Irving scored X26 points and had five assists while Channing Frye made four 3-pointers in his return to Orlando. The Cavaliers needed all of it Friday in their 109-103 victory against the Magic, surviving a career night from Victor Oladipo in the process.
Oladipo scored a career-high 45 points, the first 40-point game of his career and the most points any player has scored against the Cavs this season. He set a career high through three quarters and ripped through whatever perimeter defender the Cavs used on him – and they used just about everyone.
LeBron James had 18 points, seven rebounds and eight assists after sitting out one game to rest and Kevin Love had 14 points and six rebounds, but didn’t play in the fourth quarter. Love was a game-time decision because he was sick most of the day.
CLEVELAND: Twenty-three thoughts for 23 points from Kevin Love in Wednesday’s 99-98 win over the Dallas Mavericks…
1.      One of the go-to moves for Spurs coach Gregg Popovich is to call a timeout during a game when things aren’t going his way and walk away from the bench. He’ll huddle with his coaches on the floor like all head coaches do, but he won’t return to the bench. He’ll just leave it up to the players to figure out what’s going wrong and how to fix it.
2.      This was sort of a “figure out and fix it” moment for the Cavs, who to this point have consistently demonstrated an inability to win when LeBron James doesn’t play. It’s hard to figure since they still have a pair of max contract players and yet another near-max in Tristan Thompson. They have struggled, however, figuring things out for themselves.
CLEVELAND – Kyrie Irving scored 33 points and came up with a key steal in the final seconds to preserve a 99-98 victory Wednesday against the Dallas Mavericks on a night LeBron James rested.
Irving threw the ball away when the Mavericks double teamed him with 16 seconds left and the Cavs ahead 97-95. He regained possession when he hooked Dirk Nowitzki and wiggled in front of him for a steal. Nowitzki was forced to foul and Irving converted both free throws. The Mavericks’ Deron Williams banked in a 3-pointer at the buzzer, but it didn’t matter.
Kevin Love had 23 points and 18 rebounds and Channing Frye scored 14 points off the bench to give the Cavs their first victory in a game James sat out this season. They were blown out in the previous two instances and twice blew 20-point leads Wednesday before surviving.
 CLEVELAND: LeBron James will not play Wednesday when the Cavs host the Dallas Mavericks. The team will hold him out to rest.
The Cavs have been monitoring James’ minutes and coach Ty Lue indicated at the end of the West Coast trip that James would sit at least one of these next three games. He will play both games of a weekend back-to-back at Orlando and Miami.
The Cavs believe it’s better to rest a player in bulk rather than short doses. By sitting against the Mavericks, James will have Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday off before returning to the floor Friday against the Magic.