2013-01~06
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2348700/At-27-people-killed-knife-wielding-mobs-attack-police-stations-government-building-western-China.html?ITO=1490&ns_campaign=1490

China knife attack: At least 27 people killed after 'knife-wielding mobs' attack police and government buildings | Daily Mail Online

Published:
 02:41 EST, 26 June 2013

 | 
Updated:
 04:10 EST, 28 June 2013


At least 27 people have been killed after gangs armed with knives attacked a police station and a local government building in a remote region of western China today, according to state media.
The Xinhua agency said mobs in the Xinjiang region - home to a large Muslim Uighur minority - set upon buildings in the township of Lukqun at around 6am local time, stabbing people and setting fire to police cars.
Nine police officers and security guards and eight civilians were killed before police opened fire on the attackers, leaving 10 dead, regional Communist Party officials told the agency.
Restive: Violence erupted in the remote western Xinjiang region, where there were protests in 2009 (pictured) after riots pitting Muslim Uighurs against ethnic Chinese left nearly 200 dead (file photo)
The reported unrest in the region was the deadliest since July 2009, when nearly 200 people were killed in riots pitting Uighurs against ethnic Chinese in the region's capital Urumqi.
Many Uighurs, who speak a Turkic language, chafe at what they call Chinese government restrictions on their culture, language and religion.
China says it grants Uighurs wide-ranging freedoms and accuses extremists of separatism.
It has been the scene of numerous violent incidents in recent years.
The report said three rioters were seized, and that police pursued fleeing suspects, though it did not say how many.
A further three people were injured in the unrest today, Xinhua said.
Information is tightly controlled in the region, which the Chinese government regards as highly sensitive and where it has imposed a heavy security presence to quell unrest. However, forces are spread thin across the vast territory and the response from authorities is often slow.
An official reached by phone at the press office of the Xinjiang Public Security Bureau, the region's police, told the Associated Press she had only seen news of the violence on the Internet and had no information.
Other officials at the county's propaganda department and police said they also had no details. Calls to the region's government spokeswoman, Hou Hanmin, rang unanswered.
Reported deaths: The Xinjiang region borders Central Asia, Afghanistan and Pakistan, and has been the scene of numerous violent incidents in recent years
Violence: The reported scenes in Xinjiang today were the deadliest since the 2009 riots, which saw Uighurs taking to the streets in the capital Urumqi to voice their anger (seen in a file photo)
An overseas Uighur activist said the conflict was triggered by the Chinese government's 'sustained repression and provocation' of the Uighur community.
Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the Germany-based World Uyghur Congress, urged the international community to pressure China to 'stop imposing policies in Xinjiang that cause turmoil'.
China often accuses overseas Uighur activists of orchestrating violent incidents and obscure militant groups sometimes take responsibility, with little or no evidence to prove claims on either side.

 The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group