2013-01~06
http://news2.onlinenigeria.com/news/general/301636-security-beefed-up-in-xinjiang-after-unrest.html

Security beefed up in Xinjiang after unrest - OnlineNigeria News
In a show of force after unrest last week that left 35 people dead, Chinese authorities have beefed up security in the far-western region of Xinjiang.
Armed police held rallies in several cities in Xinjiang over the weekend, the local government news website Tianshannet reported. The site carried images showing convoys of armored vehicles and trucks full of police officers in riot gear.
China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs defended the action Monday, saying the government will “make every effort to ensure the long-term stability and development in Xinjiang.”
The measures follow an outbreak of violence Wednesday in which a group attacked police stations and other government buildings in a remote Xinjiang township, Chinese state-run media said. Authorities have described it as a “terrorist attack,” but overseas Uyghur groups have questioned the official version of events.
In the violence, 24 people, including two police officers, were killed, state media say, and police shot and killed 11 of the attackers and captured four others who were wounded.
State media reported further unrest in a different area of Xinjiang on Friday in which there were an unspecified number of arrests but no casualties.
Periodic bursts of violence have hit Xinjiang, a resource-rich region where the arrival of waves of Han Chinese people over the decades has fueled tensions with the Uyghurs, a Turkic-speaking, predominantly Muslim ethnic group.
The violence “poses a great threat to the country,” Hua Chunying of the Foreign Ministry said Monday.
“People in Xinjiang aspire to stability, development and harmony,” Hua said. “The attempts by some groups to harm stability in Xinjiang will never succeed.”
But Wednesday’s events appeared to be the deadliest clashes since July 2009, when rioting between Uyghurs and Han Chinese left around 200 people dead and 1,700 injured in Urumqi, the regional capital.
As the anniversary of the Urumqi unrest approaches, Chinese authorities are taking a tough line.
A senior official from the ruling Communist Party called for armed police squads to carry out patrols around the clock in Xinjiang, the state-run news agency Xinhua reported at the weekend.
Meng Jianzhu, secretary of the Party’s Commission for Political and Legal Affairs, asked armed police “to take precautionary and preemptive measures to strike hard on violent terrorist crimes so as to ensure a peaceful and happy life for people of all ethnic groups in the region,” the agency said.
Chinese authorities haven’t mentioned the ethnicity of those involved in the unrest Wednesday. State media accounts have described them as “rioters,” “gangsters” and “religious extremists.”
A Xinhua report Sunday said police had arrested one of them who had been on the run after the clashes. It gave his name as Yiblayan Eli, an apparently Uyghur name.
The Xinhua article reported that the group had been planning the attack since mid-June and carried it out after one of its members was arrested Tuesday.
Uyghurs have complained of discrimination by the Han Chinese and harsh treatment by security forces in Xinjiang, despite official promises of equal rights and ethnic harmony.
In China as a whole, Han Chinese account for 92% of the population.
They now make up about 40% of the population of Xinjiang, where Uyghurs used to be predominant.
In April of this year, clashes killed 21 people in Xinjiang’s Kashgar prefecture. Regional government officials called those events “a terrorist act” carried out by “mobsters,” an account that overseas Uyghur groups disputed.
“The increasing frequency with which these incidents occur illustrates the PRC’s reticence to address the root causes of the tensions that are escalating,” said the World Uyghur Congress (WUC), a Germany-based Uyghur advocacy group. It used an abbreviation of People’s Republic of China to describe China.
“There is an ever pressing need for the PRC to afford linguistic, cultural and religious freedoms, as well as ceasing politically motivated arbitrary detentions, enforced disappearances and extrajudicial killing, in order to alleviate the recurrence of these needless and avoidable events,” the WUC said.

 The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, has said that it will not return to Rivers until the state is conducive to conduct elections.The INEC spoke ...
 
 


 Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has declared that no official of the Independent national Electoral Commission (INEC) has powers to cancel results already declared by ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Senator Rowland Owie has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to order the release of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu.
In a ...
 
 
 Full story 


  • PDP wins eight state constituencies, one House seat, APC victorious in one constituency 
• Wike, Peterside’s security aides in shootout, one killed 
• Amaechi, governor clash ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has opened up on how much he met in Nigeria's treasury when he assumed office as President in 1999.
According to TRENT ...
 


 The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), on Monday, announced the death of a corps member, Okonta Samuel, with call-up number RV/15B/5539, during the re-run elections ...
 


 y Jimitota Onoyume, Dapo Akinrefon, Charles Kumolu, Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Davies Iheanachor & Rotimi Ojomoyela PORT-HARCOURT— THE orgy of violence, which characterised Saturday’s re-run polls for ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Ade Adesomoju, Abuja
The Supreme Court has affirmed the election of Mr. Darius Ishaku of the Peoples Democratic Party as Governor of Taraba State.
In a unanimous ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Embattled leader of the Indigenous People of Bifra, IPOB, and Director of Radio Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, has accused the Department of State Services, DSS, of ...
 
 
 Full story 


 – Police arrested Yunusa Adamu Dangwani, the chief of staff to former governor of Kano state Rabiu Kwankwaso
– Dangwani and other political associates of Kwankwaso ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Professor Yakubu Muktar has been appointed as the new Vice Chancellor, Yobe State University to replace former Vice Chancellor, Professor Musa Alabe following what was ...
 
 
 Full story 


 The brothers who have been battling each other for a while now, this 
night posted a photo of a dove on their respective instagram page ...
 
 


 Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, has explained that his recent union to the beautiful Olori Wuraola is as a result of divine revelations ...
 
 


 After weeks of rumours, accusations and bad-blood between brothers Paul and Peter Okoye, and their brother, Jude Okoye, NigerianEye can authoritatively confrim that PSquare is ...
 
 


 – Photographer sues 2face Idibia and his wife Annie
– He demands for a sum of N120 million as damage
– 2face and Annie Idibia has responded ...
 
 
 Full story 


 – Samson Siasia has picked just six home-based Super Eagles for the clash with Egypt 
– Arsenal star Alex Iwobi is the first foreign based Eagles star ...
 
 


 – Sam Okpodu has been confirmed as the new Ikorodu United coach
– Benson Edema is now the assistant coach
– The new coach is expected to ...
 
 


 – Chris Green says Nigeria is not scared of Egypt despite their players superb form in Europe
– The NFF technical committee member believes the Super Eagles ...
 
 


 Ex-Super Eagles coach, Sunday Oliseh, has hit out at the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) for shifting focus from the upcoming 2017 Africa Cup of Nations ...
 
 


 Manchester United manager Louis van Gaal and assistant manager Ryan Giggs. Photo: Action Images via Reuters




 
LONDON — Beleaguered Manchester United manager Louis van Gaal has ...
 
 


 Tottenham's Dele Alli in action with Borussia Dortmund's Henrikh Mkhitaryan. Photo: Reuters




 
LONDON — Dele Alli has told his Tottenham Hotspur team-mates to forget their chastening ...
 
 
