2013-01~06
http://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2013/06/deaths-in-china-xinjiang-riot-rise-to-35-xinhua/

Deaths in China Xinjiang riot rise to 35: Xinhua - Capital News
By AGENCE FRANCE PRESSE, The vast western desert region – home to 10 million members of the mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority – last saw such bloody clashes in 2009/XINHUA-FileBEIJING, Jun 28 – The death toll in one of the worst riots in China’s restive Xinjiang area is now 35, state media said on Friday, up from the 27 reported soon after the incident two days earlier.
The vast western desert region – home to 10 million members of the mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority – last saw such bloody clashes in 2009, in riots that left hundreds dead.
Some in the Uighur community have blamed the unrest on economic inequality and religious repression, but China rejects these claims, pointing to investment in the resource-rich region and often pinning clashes on “terrorists”.
The Xinhua state news agency described the latest riot as a “terrorist” incident in which mobs attacked police stations and other sites before officers opened fire, leaving 35 dead including 11 rioters.
A further 21 police and civilians were injured and four rioters detained in the incident which occurred in Turpan city’s Lukqun township, the report said.
The World Uyghur Congress, a group run by Uighurs in exile, said in statement that the incident was “evidence of China’s failed policies towards Uighurs”.
It added that “an information blackout and security crackdown” in the area raised questions about state media’s version of events.
Police at a checkpoint 40 kilometres (25 miles) from Lukqun barred AFP journalists from entering on Thursday, citing safety concerns and ongoing investigations.
Xinhua said on Friday that the situation in the area was now “generally stable”.
Xinjiang propaganda officials and the Turpan police contacted by AFP declined to comment, referring queries instead to reports by Xinhua.
BRUSSELS, Belgium, Mar 22 - Twin explosions rocked the main hall of Brussels Airport on Tuesday, killing…
MOMBASA, Kenya, Mar 22 - Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi have been…
BRUSSELS, Belgium, Mar 22 - Two explosions were heard at Brussels Airport on Tuesday, Belgian media…
HONG KONG, Mar 22 - Coal plants are draining an already dwindling global water supply, Greenpeace warned…
ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast, Mar 22 - Deputy President William Ruto has said there is need to dismantle trade…
NAIROBI, Kenya Mar 18 - A 63 year old man was on Friday morning injured by a lion that was sighted on…
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 15 - Imagine developing a condition that takes years to be diagnosed, change of…
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 15 - In the example of his party leader Raila Odinga who said he was unafraid to…
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 16 - A former Nation Media Group editor who was sacked for allegedly flouting procedure…
NAIROBI, Kenya, Mar 18 - Capital Group Chairman Chris Kirubi has been appointed the Brand Kenya Board…