2013-01~06
http://my.news.yahoo.com/china-pledges-clamp-down-terrorism-xinjiang-062003725.html

Yahoo

Two SMRT staff members have passed away after an accident on the track near Pasir Ris station Tuesday morning.
 


 
 SCDF at the scene »
 


 Places to go for a nap in the CBD

A controversial Malaysian columnist on Monday complained that he was “treated like a terrorist” by Singapore immigration authorities before they eventually refused him entry into the city-state. Ridhuan Tee Abdullah wrote about the incident in his column for Malay-language news site Sinar Online and also published the piece titled "Know the true enemies of Islam” on his Facebook page. My photograph and fingerprints were taken,” he said about a recent experience when he tried to visit Singapore with a friend for personal reasons.
Only one Pop-Tart can be president. Decide for yourself at www.popthevote2016.com.
Entrepreneur Elon Musk and his British actress wife Talulah Riley are to end their marriage for a second time, official sources told AFP. The couple wed in 2010 and remarried in 2013 after a their first divorce, but Riley filed for divorce again in Los Angeles Superior Court on Monday, according to a joint statement sent to AFP. In 2010, he went through a messy divorce from his Canadian-born wife, science-fiction writer Justine Musk, mother of their five sons, including triplets.
GEORGE TOWN, March 22 ― Businesswoman Phang Li Koon signed a statutory declaration (SD) today to refute the allegations of corruption concerning the sale of her former Jalan Pinhorn home to Penang...
KUALA LUMPUR, March 22 ― Senator Datuk Seri S. Nallakaruppan today denied claiming that PKR de facto leader Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim had received RM60 million from a gambling corporation, blaming...
Men, reduce the look of wrinkles, sagging skin and fine lines with this affordable and effective skin tightening treatment without leaving your home.
Apple has gone small -- cutting prices as well as screen size -- unveiling a new iPhone and iPad aimed at first-time buyers and customers in emerging markets. The new launches came as the FBI moved to postpone a high-profile court battle with the US government on encryption and data protection, saying it may have a way to break into an iPhone at the heart of that case. On Sunday, "an outside party demonstrated to the FBI a possible method for unlocking (Syed) Farook's iPhone," prosecutors said in a filing asking a federal judge in Southern California to delay a hearing set for Tuesday.
A flight attendant fled when she was selected for a random screening at Los Angeles International Airport, prompting a search that turned up 66 pounds (30 kg) of cocaine in her carry-on bags, a Drug Enforcement Administration spokesman said on Monday. The woman, who had arrived at the terminal on Friday for a flight, abandoned her belongings before escaping on foot, Special Agent Timothy Massino said. A law enforcement source said that the flight attendant had been identified by investigators but not apprehended as of Monday evening.
Jeremy Lin inspired a stunning fightback as the Charlotte Hornets rallied from a 23-point deficit to upset the San Antonio Spurs 91-88. Lin drained 29 points including four three-pointers as the Hornets shocked the in-form Spurs, who were brought crashing back down to earth two days after beating the all-conquering Golden State Warriors. Lin's points haul included a superb fallaway jump shot with 48.4 seconds left which gave the Hornets the lead at 89-88 before adding two free throws with 18.3 seconds on the clock to complete the scoring.
U.S & Canadian citizens making huge monthly salaries after new company goes viral. Experts calling it "The Best Way To Supplement Your Income Since..
(Reuters) - Manchester United midfielder Michael Carrick remains positive over his chances of being named in the England squad for the Euro 2016 tournament in France, admitting he has discussed the matter with national coach Roy Hodgson. Keen on wearing the Three Lions shirt again, Carrick took up the matter with Hodgson. "I spoke to him and it's fair enough," Carrick told reporters.
PUTRAJAYA, March 21 — Islam frowns on Muslims who will ally themselves with their religion’s critics to achieve their goals no matter how “noble”, Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak said today....
Khloe Kardashian doesn't see the point in staying in touch with a guy she's "f**ked for two weeks".
Recent research reveals that 70% of heart attacks are caused by something no one could’ve expected…
A computer system malfunction forced Japan's All Nippon Airways to cancel more than 100 domestic flights on Tuesday, affecting some 16,000 travellers, the carrier said. Passengers lined up patiently at counters to arrange new reservations for later flights as the airline's reservation and check-in hall overflowed with inconvenienced travellers. ANA said it spotted something wrong at about 8:20 am Tuesday (2320 GMT Monday) and though the problem was largely resolved about three hours later at least 127 domestic flights were cancelled by afternoon.
By Steve Holland and Emily Flitter WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump on Monday vowed an unbreakable U.S. alliance with Israel if he is elected president in November, seeking to clear up confusion over his repeated pledges to remain neutral in any peace negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians. Trump's speech to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, a powerful pro-Israel lobbying group, was part of a daylong effort by the anti-Washington candidate to persuade establishment Republicans to get behind his insurgent candidacy and give up on an effort to deny him the party's presidential nomination. Describing Israel as ready to negotiate a peace agreement, Trump said the Palestinians would have to be willing to accept that Israel will forever exist as a Jewish state and able to stop attacks on Israelis.
"To start with, I said nothing, but later, when I saw that everybody was supporting me, I told myself, why not speak out, (and) fight this?" When Zouhoura turned to the police in Chad, "at first they didn't react." Detectives considered that a rape claim against the sons of senior officials in the regime was taboo. "I want justice to be done, so that this doesn't happen again," she said.
Pentagon and national security insider recently stepped forward with an urgent warning to the American public -- Especially those aged 55 and older...
Kim Kardashian is thrilled to be fitting back into her old clothes after giving birth to son Saint in December (15).
Beijing Max Screen have been punished by Chinese authorities for faking the box office takings for their latest cinema release, ‘Ip Man 3′. According to Variety, the distribution company will be banned from releasing any films for an entire month as punishment, which will surely have a knock-on effect further down the line, especially for filmmakers themselves. Apparently, Max Screen have now admitted to buying up  $8.61 million of tickets to its own movie to give false stats that bumped the number of screenings by an additional 7,600, referred to as ‘ghost screenings’.
Thousands of Indonesian taxi and motorised rickshaw drivers staged a violent protest Tuesday against Uber and other ride-hailing services, blocking major roads in the capital, clashing with drivers from app-based rivals and setting tyres alight. As convoys of vehicles brought downtown Jakarta to a standstill, the protest turned violent, with taxi drivers jumping up and down on vehicles that refused to take part, drivers working for app-based services coming under attack, and some fighting back by hurling rocks. Anger has been growing among taxi drivers worldwide at the challenge presented by US company Uber, one of the world's most valuable start-ups, and a flurry of other app-based services that typically offer cheaper fares than traditional transport operators.
Everything you have ever wanted to know about Rheumatoid Arthritis. All on Yahoo Search!
KUALA LUMPUR, March 22 ― The minister that oversees Lembaga Tabung Haji (LTH) has full discretion under the law to appoint members to the board, de facto law minister Nancy Shukri said. In a...
BANGKOK (AP) — Dong Junming was detained several times in his Chinese homeland before he and his family fled to Bangkok in February 2015. A year later, he was preparing to make a more desperate journey to evade Chinese authorities who still felt dangerously close.
DALLAS (AP) — Texas police on Monday accused the estranged wife of internationally renowned pianist Vadym Kholodenko of killing the couple's two young daughters before stabbing herself.
Don't use the internet in the U.S until you've seen the truth about Online ID protection & anonymity CNN calling this "A game changer for all..
By Astrid Zweynert LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Papua New Guinea is the most difficult and expensive place in the world to access clean water, forcing the poor to spend more than half their income on this essential resource, a charity said on Tuesday. Some 650 million people do not have access to clean water, and often have to make do with much less than the 50 litres per person per day the World Health Organization says is necessary for domestic use and to maintain health and hygiene, Water Aid said. Lack of access to an affordable, convenient source of clean water is one of the biggest barriers to escaping a life of poverty and disease, the charity said in its report "State of the World's Water 2016".


Workers' Party will not contest Bukit Batok SMC in by-election


Nature groups double MacRitchie walks in March to raise awareness


Tan Cheng Bock: President's role is to 'look after your money'


‘31 Days of Halloween’: Mom Transforms Herself Into Unforgettable Characters


Photos Reveal a Side of Cosplayers You Won’t See at Comic Con


Pamela Anderson Throws Back to Her Iconic '90s Looks in New Missguided Ad Campaign


Jake Gyllenhaal Gushes About Wanting to Have a Family of His Own


Ben Affleck Calls Jennifer Garner a 'Superhero Mom': ‘I'm Really Lucky to Have Her’


Melissa McCarthy Opens Up About ‘The Boss’ Being a Family Affair


Jennifer Lopez Is Overcome with Emotion on Thursday Night’s ‘American Idol’


Watch Emma Watson Drop a Beat in the Name of Gender Equality


Kylie Snapchats the ‘Keeping Up With the Kardashians' Moment When She Met Tyga