2013-01~06
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang-19-Uyghur-sentenced:-They-spread-extremism-on-line-28262.html

CHINA Xinjiang 19 Uyghur sentenced: "They spread extremism on line"
Beijing (AsiaNews)
- The provincial government of Xinjiang has approved a series of convictions
handed down in recent days against 19 Uighurs (the ethnic majority), sentencing
them to up to 6 years in prison for having "promoted racial hatred
"and having "spread religious extremism through the internet. "
All prisoners (except one) come from the southern part of the province, one of
the most tense battlegrounds of conflict with Han Chinese.
The judges found sentenced
one of the accused because he downloaded "material that foments religious
fervor and preach the holy war" from the Internet. A second person
"spread" online material "that praises religious extremism and
terrorism." According to the Chinese central government, the Xinjiang Uighur
groups have links with militants in Central Asia and Pakistan, that who are
training them to overthrow the legitimate government and create another
independent state.
Last April, a
series of violent clashes near Kashgar - the historic junction of the silk road
- resulted in 21 deaths. In July 2009 violence between the two groups reached
its peak, with more than 200 victims in the provincial capital Urumqi and the
army deployed in the streets in anti-riot formations.

The Uighurs are Turkic-speaking Muslim: for several decades they have had an
adversarial relationship with the Chinese central government, which in part
they do not recognize. After a few (unsuccessful) attempts to gain independence
as "East Turkestan", the ethnic leaders have asked Beijing for the
possibility to safeguard their language, culture and religion. The Chinese
government - while conceding some tax breaks and social benefits - decided
instead to use a heavy hand and launched a campaign of repression and control
in the whole area.
AsiaNews spoke to Josephine, one of hundreds of Christians from Al-Hasakah, who spent a year in the hands of the Islamic State group. She talked about psychological suffering, conversion attempts, and separation from her male relatives. She survived thanks to her faith. Her mother Caroline, a Caritas official, is the only one in her family to have been spared the ordeal. She also negotiated their release with IS, and gave a Jihadi copies of the Bible. Now she hopes “to meet the pope” with her entire family.
Sister Rani Maria was killed in 1995, stabbed 54 times. The murderer was a radical Hindu, incited by village leaders, who wanted to stop the nun's activities in favor of tribal poor. The path "that led me to forgive Samunder Singh has not been easy, but now he's my brother." Instead, "my mother said once: 'I would kiss his hands, because on them there is the blood of my daughter'." The exchange of the Indian bracelet that celebrates love between siblings; the moment of encounter with the victim's mother.

 
2003 © All rights reserved - AsiaNews C.F. e P.Iva: 00889190153 - GLACOM®
Copyright ÂŠ 2003 AsiaNews C.F. 00889190153 All rights reserved. Content on this site is made available for personal, non-commercial use only. You may not reproduce, republish, sell or otherwise distribute the content or any modified or altered versions of it without the express written permission of the editor. Photos on AsiaNews.it are largely taken from the internet and thus considered to be in the public domain. Anyone contrary to their publication need only contact the editorial office which will immediately proceed to remove the photos.