2013-01~06
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2013-06-30/an-china-unrest/4790048

Security crackdown in China's far western Xinjiang region - Australia Network News - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)
A huge military build-up is being reported around China's ethnically divided Xinjiang region where clashes over the past few days claimed 35 lives.
China's state media is calling the military build-up a 'drill', involving tanks, military vehicles and armed personnel who blocked streets to the capital Urumqi.
An AFP reporter at the scene says a large section of the city was shut down during the exercise.
Beijing sent two high-ranking officials to the far western region on Saturday after a top level Communist Party meeting headed by President Xi Jinping.
"We will step up actions to crack down upon terrorist groups and extremist organisations and track the wanted," a member of the party's Politburo Standing Committee, Yu Zhengsheng, said after arriving in Urumqi, Xinhua news agency reported.
The drill came ahead of the fourth anniversary of riots in Urumqi between members of China's mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority and its Han majority, which left around 200 dead.
A senior member of the Chinese Communist Party has called for 24 hour patrols in the area.
Rights groups for the mostly Muslim Uighur minority deny state claims that outbreaks of unrest in the region are terrorism, instead blaming unrest on economic inequality and religious repression.
Military vehicles and at least 1,000 personnel from the People's Armed Police, part of China's armed forces responsible for law enforcement and internal security during peacetime, were deployed in Urumqi.
State run media described the exercises as "ceremonies... to support the fight against terrorism".
Information about unrest in Xinjiang is restricted by the Chinese government.

 First posted 
 
 June 30, 2013 10:25:30
 

Dozens of large private companies paid no corporate tax in 2013-14. Search our database to see who's paying what.
Malcolm Turnbull has shown crossbench senators the hangman's noose and their minds will now be focused on one thing: survival.
Boldness is the currency of Canberra and confidence is a substitute for the control MPs will never have. Enter Malcolm Turnbull and the double dissolution gamble he "had to take", writes Chris Berg.
Music on television has come a long way from the weird synth slap bass that introduces Seinfeld or Thank You for Being a Friend.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.


AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)
