2013-01~06
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/beijing-adds-armed-patrols-key-sites

Beijing adds armed patrols at key sites | TODAYonline
BEIJING — China’s capital boosted armed police patrols yesterday following a spate of attacks the government blames on terrorists seeking independence for the north-western region of Xinjiang.
Beijing’s police force said on its microblog that 150 additional vehicles and nearly 2,000 police officers and auxiliaries were being assigned to guard key intersections around the city of more than 20 million people.
The additional personnel were drawn from the paramilitary People’s Armed Police, members of whom could be seen standing in groups of three around Tiananmen Square in the heart of the city.
Meanwhile, in another move that underscored government jitters over the recent attacks, China’s defence minister yesterday urged the military to step up border security during a tour of Yunnan province, which abuts Myanmar, Laos and Vietnam.
China has increased security countrywide in the wake of two recent attacks at train stations that killed 30 people and at least two attackers. The violence was blamed on extremists from among Xinjiang’s native Turkic Muslim Uighur ethnic group.
Recent cases of violence also included an unprecedented attack last year on Tiananmen Gate that killed three Uighur assailants and two tourists.
Security in Beijing has been boosted to increase the public’s sense of security, intimidate would-be assailants and shorten response times to violent incidents, the police statement said.
“This armed patrol brigade will speedily and effectively take down all forms of terrorist activity,’’ it said.
The statement said the security teams would be a permanent presence in Beijing, adding to a slew of increased measures that include checkpoints and screening for subway passengers and anyone seeking to enter public spaces.
Separately, Defence Minister Chang Wanquan yesterday said China must ensure the security of the Yunnan border area in the interests of national sovereignty and development.