2013-01~06
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/2826/20140602/xinjiang-police-fights-terrorism-violence-paying-surrendered.htm

Xinjiang Police Fights Terrorism And Violence By Paying For Surrendered Weapons : Society : Chinatopix
The burning SUV used in the Beijing terror attack October of last year.(Photo : ibtimes.com)
Residents of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region are being offered cash incentives in exchange for surrendering their weapons.
In a document released by Xinjiang's public security department, members of the Uighur indigenous tribe who would voluntarily surrender their weapons, which include handguns, rifles and bullets, will be paid.
The cash reward is as follows: 500 yuan (US$88) per rifle, 300 yuan (US$48) for handguns and 5 yuan (US$0.80) per bullet.
The document also said rewards will also be given to those who would relay information on where the local police can find and confiscate large weapons caches. The cash incentive for larger weapons is 10,000 yuan (US$1,600), especially when proven that its use is intended for major violence.
Besides guns, the document also included different payouts for explosives. Those who would surrender grenades, source bomb or land mine will receive 100 yuan (US$160), 20 yuan (US$3) per kilogram of dynamite, 30 yuan (US$4.80) and 10 yuan (US$1.60) per kilogram of gunpowder.
Residents who surrender gun replicas and long knives not used for preparation of food will be rewarded according to their respective market values, local police said.
Those who provide information that could lead the police to prevent planned suicide bombings and other possible terrorist attacks will receive between 5,000 yuan (US$800) and 30,000 yuan (US$4,801).
The police document and the corresponding rewards took effect on Tuesday last week.
Last Friday, Xinjiang officials have indicted eight people on charges of terrorism that is connected to the Tiananmen Square attack during October of last year. Two tourists were killed in the attack as well as three assailants.
The eight perpetrators were arrested just within days after the attack. One of the eight charged with terrorism drove an SUV through a thick crowd of tourist in Tiananmen Square before setting the vehicle on fire.
A tourist from the Philippines and a Chinese visitor were killed in the attack together with the SUV driver who was accompanied by his wife and mother-in-law.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent rumors have emerged that Sacramento Kings All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins could finally move to the Los Angeles Lakers in the summer following his recent comments about the Hollywood squad’s young players after the two team’s recent game. read more