2013-01~06
http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2014/may/01/attacks-show-bolder-terror-threat-growing-in-china/

Attacks show bolder terror threat growing in China | SanDiegoUnionTribune.com

 In this photo provided by China's official Xinhua News Agency, Chinese President Xi Jinping, center, watches drills of troops of the Chinese People's Liberation Army in northwest China's Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region Thursday, May 1, 2014. Chinese President Xi demanded "decisive" action against terrorism after the Wednesday's terror attack at a train station, which came at awkward time for him, just as he was wrapping up a four-day tour of Xinjiang aimed at underlining the government's commitment to security in the region. (AP Photo/Xinhua, Li Gang) NO SALES


 A man and child on a bicycle cycle past by an armored paramilitary police vehicle parked outside a hospital where victims of Wednesday's explosion receives treatment in Urumqi in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region on Thursday, May 1, 2014. Chinese President Xi Jinping has demanded "decisive actions" against terrorism following an attack at a railway station in the far-west minority region of Xinjiang that left three people dead and 79 injured. (AP Photo/Ng Han Guan)


 Ethnic minority women wait on the street near a cage protecting heavily armed Chinese paramilitary policemen on duty in Urumqi in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region on Thursday, May 1, 2014. Recent deadly attacks in China blamed on Islamic extremists are getting bolder and bloodier, targeting civilians rather than the authorities and further challenging Beijing’s ability to stop them. (AP Photo/Ng Han Guan)


 Uighur children play near a cage protecting heavily armed Chinese paramilitary policemen on duty in Urumqi in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region on Thursday, May 1, 2014. Recent deadly attacks in China blamed on Islamic extremists are getting bolder and bloodier, targeting civilians rather than the authorities and further challenging Beijing’s ability to stop them. (AP Photo/Ng Han Guan)


 Uighur men rest from shoveling dirt near an Chinese paramilitary police armored personnel carrier on the streets of Urumqi in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region on Thursday May 1, 2014. Recent deadly attacks in China blamed on Islamic extremists are getting bolder and bloodier, targeting civilians rather than the authorities and further challenging Beijing’s ability to stop them. (AP Photo/Ng Han Guan)


 Heavily armed Chinese paramilitary police men march past the site of the Wednesday explosion outside the Urumqi South Railway Station in Urumqi in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region on Thursday, May 1, 2014. Recent deadly attacks in China blamed on Islamic extremists are getting bolder and bloodier, targeting civilians rather than the authorities and further challenging Beijing’s ability to stop them. (AP Photo/Ng Han Guan)


 A man washes and scrubs the site of the Wednesday's explosion outside the Urumqi South Railway Station in Urumqi in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region on Thursday, May 1, 2014. Recent deadly attacks in China blamed on Islamic extremists are getting bolder and bloodier, targeting civilians rather than the authorities and further challenging Beijing’s ability to stop them. (AP Photo/Ng Han Guan)

BEIJING (AP) — Recent deadly attacks in China blamed on Islamic extremists are getting bolder and bloodier, targeting civilians rather than the authorities and further challenging Beijing's ability to stop them.
The latest attack on Wednesday at a train station in the far-western region of Xinjiang — where extremists among the Turkic Uighur Muslim population have been waging a simmering insurgency against Beijing for years — left three people dead and 79 injured, prompting Chinese President Xi Jinping to demand "decisive actions" against terrorism.
Authorities said two of the dead were assailants, marking the attack as an apparent suicide bombing that hints at a further escalation in tactics, said Raffaello Pantucci, a terrorism expert at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies in London.
Prior to that, in March, five knife-wielding men and women believed to be Uighurs (pronounced WEE'-gurs) slashed at crowds indiscriminately at a railway station in southwestern China, killing 29 people. And last year, three Uighurs rammed a vehicle into crowds in a suicide attack near the Forbidden City gate in the heart of Beijing, killing themselves and two tourists.
While these attacks are still relatively crude and bear little sign of specialized training, they seem to have an audaciousness and deliberateness that wasn't present before, said Andrew Small, an expert on China and Central Asia at the German Marshall Fund in Washington, D.C.
"The capacity of groups inside China to mount effective, politically targeted attacks does seem to be growing," Small said. "It's a step beyond the sort of localized incidents in western Xinjiang that were taking off a few years ago."
Embarrassingly, the latest incident came as Xi wrapped up a four-day trip to the region that included a visit to an anti-terror unit and bold talk from the leader about the need to maintain social stability at all costs. It also came on the eve of the May Day holiday, possibly targeting Xinjiang's growing tourism industry.
Pantucci said the fact that the attack took place in a relatively secure major city was also significant.
"The nature of this attack and its location is a further demonstration of the growing intensity of the problems," Pantucci said.
Urumqi was the scene of ethnic riots that killed nearly 200 people in 2009, but has been relatively quiet since.
No arrests have been reported and no one has claimed responsibility for the train station attack in the regional capital Urumqi, about 2,500 kilometers (1,550 miles) west of Beijing.
For years, militants in Xinjiang have carried out attacks on police and government officials using knives, vehicles and homemade explosives. The extremists want to overthrow Chinese rule while many others want greater autonomy and freedom to practice their culture and religion.
Uighur activists say the violence is being fueled by restrictive and discriminatory policies and practices directed at Uighurs and a sense that the benefits of economic growth have largely accrued to Chinese migrants while excluding Uighurs. The knowledge that Muslims elsewhere are rising up against their governments also seems to be contributing to the increased militancy.
China's response has generally been to crack down ruthlessly on the one hand, while promising economic benefits on the other.
The most recent attacks deviate from previous ones in that they are increasingly targeting civilians and attempting violence on a larger scale, apparently pointing to a greater level of organization and planning.
Such attacks are designed to "instill fear by sheer randomness" and provoke retaliation from Beijing that would boost resentment among Uighurs and further support for the extremists, said Ahmed A.S. Hashim, a terrorism expert at Singapore's Nanyang Technical University.
© 1995-2016 The San Diego Union-Tribune, LLC | 350 Camino de la Reina, San Diego, CA 92108