2013-01~06
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang,-police-open-fire-on-crowd:-27-victims-28302.html"

Unkown
A website close to the government said that the NLD leader will head the Ministries for Education, Foreign Affairs, Energy and Office of the President. She will be the only woman to join the new government. Interior, Borders and Defense go to military leaders. AsiaNews sources: Figures from the Church and the Christian world appointed. The full list of ministers.
The Tibetan diaspora voted for a new parliament and head of government. Two were running for the top government job, including the incumbent and a former parliamentary speaker. Almost 90,000 Tibetans took part in the process in more than ten countries. However, some have criticised the process, and the exclusion of those who "have no money to spend." Mystery still surrounds the vote of Tibetans in Chinese provinces.
The Nur Otan party wins 82.15 per cent of the vote. It will rule with its Communist and Ak Zhol allies. OSCE observers have questioned the vote. The election was held early just in case the economy were to worsen. At present, some growth is taking place. The president's designated heir, his daughter, could become the speaker of the lower house.
A mob of 40 Hindu extremists stormed a prayer service, seized those present and set fire to their prayer hall. They also tore a clergyman’s cassock and then snatched and trampled copies of the Bible because the temporary prayer hall did not have the “right” permits.
Fr Tom Uzhunnalil was the chaplain of the Sisters of Mother Teresa killed in Aden. He is now in Jihadi hands. So far, nothing is known about his fate. Unconfirmed rumours claim that he will be crucified on Good Friday. The Rector Major addresses the Salesian Family asking for prayers for the victims of sectarian violence.
Jyoti Shrestha participated in the Mass along with scores of Hindus and Buddhists. "In our religion, many suffer from discrimination, whilst in Christianity there is equality." For Apostolic Vicar Mgr Paul Simick, who led the liturgy, "We have to think whether we are ready to die for Jesus or not. If we are not ready to die for him, then we must at least be prepared to live for Jesus”.
In his Easter message, His Beatitude invites the faithful to "remain united on this earth" and to be "model of light and hope." He spoke of a still divided nation, which needs to be saved from "further fighting, dead, displaced persons." Christians, Muslims, Yazidis and Sabean to dialogue with "seriously" with openness and honesty, for a "true national reconciliation."
Over 70 adult catechumens will be baptised in the Easter Vigil: children on Easter Sunday and seniors on the Sunday of Divine Mercy. For pastor and PIME missionary Fr Bonalumi, "The grace of the Jubilee brought many people to the faith”. The "best evangeliser" in the parish is a woman who survived suicide, and “met Jesus in hospital”. This year, some 3,200 baptisms should be performed in the diocese.
The PIME regional superior speaks of heightened insecurity following the attack against Fr. Parolari by Islamic radicals. In Dinajpur priests care for patients in a local hospitals and manage land to meet the needs of the entire population. Nationwide 29 priests of the Pontifical Institute for Foreign Missions are in service to the people.

 
The great political dissident analyzes recent Chinese parliamentary sessions. The concept of "free debate" that emerged with the death of Mao Zedong  have died again with the censorship policies of Xi Jinping. Delegates are not to speak of those topics that are on everyone's lips: meetings are useless. The reporter Jia Jia, "disappeared" while traveling to Hong Kong, has been taken by the police: he published  an open letter critical of the supreme leader.

 
Jordanian Minister of Islamic Affairs, Hayel Daoud, announces the creation of a "control center." The video surveillance system will "document all the aggressions and violations of Israel." In the past, the Israeli police had boycotted the project of video surveillance, blocking its installation.

 
Fearing further attacks, match between Galatasaray and Fenerbahçe canceled. Celebrations for Nouruz, the Kurdish New Year, banned. Israel advises citizens not to go to Turkey. The bomber was a young Turkish man who fought for the Islamic State in Syria. Five other suspects arrested.

 
At the beginning of Holy Week, Pope Francis urges us to look at the crucifix, the "cathedra of God", where "the Son of God", "emptied" and "humbled" himself" and encourages us to "learn about the humble love which saves and gives life, so that we may give up all selfishness, and the seeking of power and fame". The Pope brings to mind "the many marginalized, the many refugees" left to die in indifference. Tens of thousands of young people in preparation for the World Youth Day in Krakow in July.
Cardinal of Bangkok to the faithful: "The life and example of Saint Joseph show us the way to grow as fathers, whether family or spiritual fathers, in the path of justice, of goodness and virtue. And these are the paths for the growth of every human being ". Ayutthaya relaunches evangelization of Thailand.

 
There has been an escalation of violence by Hindu radicals in recent weeks. Churches damaged, pastors beaten and arrested, faithful manhandled. President of Global Council of Indian Christians: "It seems that praying in India has become a crime. Christians are not treated like other citizens".

 
In return, Turkey will get three billion euro and a new round of negotiations for entry into Europe. For each migrant rejected by Greece, a pass for a Syrian refugee from Turkish to European territory. Davutoglu criticizes Kurds' protest in Brussels: "They are terrorists". Tusk responds: "Freedom of speech is the foundation of our continent".
There are 57 religious in the country, operating in seven dioceses alongside needy and disabled. The regional superior: "On September 4, we will not be in Rome, but we will celebrate the canonization with our poor." In the country "many miracles have occurred through her intercession."

 
Fr. Harry Sulistyo and Fr. Steve Winarto have involved young people from all cultures to write and produce three musical performances. The most recent was staged in the prestigious theater Ciputra Jakarta Art-preneur: "The Church has the duty to reach out to everyone, even the most distant."

 
Although against the law, the practice of child brides for dowries is still widespread in the country. Educated girls cost greater sums of money because they must marry a higher-ranking man. To spend less, thousands of poor families withdraw their daughters from the schools. Activist: "It 'a chronic problem."

 
Gregory III criticises the US Secretary’s claim because it is "no good" for Syria’s ethnic and religious groups. For the bishop, it is necessary not to link religion and war; otherwise, matter will be worse. What is needed is more work on peace and coexistence. Syrian bishops call on the faithful to pray for the success of the Geneva talks. 
US Secretary of State John Kerry called for an international probe into the Islamist group that has massacred Yazidis, Christians, and Shias in Syria and Iraq. US foreign policy however contributed to the rise of the Islamic State (IS) group by marginalising pro-Saddam Hussein Sunnis in Iraq, by "containing" it without fighting IS, and by selling weapons to Saudi Arabia, which ended up in IS’s hands in Syria. Iraq is now the second country in the world in terms of anti-Christian persecution.
A young Indian woman, Sonam Shaikh, chose to convert to Christianity after attending Christmas Mass. Remember that moment, she said “Everything fascinated me". After that initial “thunderbolt” that filled her heart with joy, she took on the path of Initiation, which she describes in her journey toward baptism.
The Anglican clergyman came from a wealthy family, but chose to serve the people of his country. He built a Christian ashram to nurture dialogue between Christians, Buddhists and Marxists. Over time, the facility became a hub for young, strikers, and activists. He also worked on improving relations between the north and the south, stood up to the Rajapaksa regime, and saved hundreds of people during the civil war.
In his Easter letter, the PIME missionary, who has been in Thailand for almost 40 years, describes the distress thousands of people experience every day. Despite usury, corruption and neglect, there are signs of hope. Young people freely dedicate themselves to help the downtrodden. A political refugee entered the seminary. At Easter, 15 catechumens will be baptised.
Meeting 10 thousand members of the Neocatechumenal Way Francis speaks of unity and glory and the world. The centrality of communion in the Church, which expresses its fertility "through the ministry and guidance of pastors". Glory is the one that "is revealed on the Cross: it is love that irradiates and spreads from there." "God is not attracted by sophistication, indeed, he detests it; but He loves the world He has created, and loves His children in the world as they are, wherever they live, even if they are 'distant'".
Jia was supposed to fly to Hong Kong, but is now missing. No one knows his whereabouts. Two weeks ago, he had posted an open letter to China's president, accusing him of accumulating too much power. Censorship is increasingly resented even among Communists. A former reporter at Xinhua complains about too many banned items, and government departments with too much power, setting “themselves up as the arbiters of public opinion."
The superior of the Aden community has entrusted to a sister the dramatic story of the assault on the nursing home for the elderly and disabled. The sisters were killed because of their "fidelity" to their mission, by being found ready "to welcome their Spouse”. A blood sacrifice in the hope that it will bring about "shoots of peace for the Middle East and help stop Isis". The signed letter (PDF).
Bartholomew issues a "patriarchal and synodal encyclical". The meeting will be held in Crete June 18 to 27. The meaning and importance of synodality for the Orthodox. "Without Synod's decision, discernment between orthodoxy and heresy is not possible. All the dogmas of the Church and its sacred canons bear the seal of collegiality".
The leader of the Maronite Church warns of impact of institutional stalemate. The cardinal adds that "the patriarchate does not have candidates. It does not recommend a certain candidate, it does not support a candidate and it does not veto any candidate". Deep concern on the part of the UN Security Council. Danger of political, social and economic "instability".
The resolution was presented by a Hindu deputy. Activists working on behalf of minorities appreciate the decision. Others point out some shortcomings: the holidays will be reserved only for religious minorities and not to the entire population. Focus needed on concrete respect for minority rights.

 