2013-01~06
http://www.tribuneindia.com/2013/20130701/world.htm

The Tribune, Chandigarh, India - World


Terror strikes kill 43 in Pakistan



Peshawar, June 30
At least 43 persons were killed and over 100 injured in Pakistan today in different attacks, including a powerful bomb blast that targeted a passing convoy of security forces.
 




Will stand together with Pak to fight terror, says Cameron






Islamabad, June 30



 Britain's Prime Minister David Cameron today promised to "stand together" with Pakistan in the war against terrorism and nudged his counterpart Nawaz Sharif to help clinch a peace deal with Afghanistan before NATO's withdrawal from the war-torn nation next year.





Pak power crisis: Minister to visit India





Islamabad, June 30



 Pakistan’s Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has directed his Water and Power Minister to India to address the severe energy crisis facing the country.





UK to charge migrants for health care





London, June 30



 Britain is set to tighten its rules to close loopholes that allow migrants to wrongly access free-for-all health care while in the country.



Indians in S Arabia told to get final exit visa immediately





Dubai, June 30



 India has asked its nationals living in Saudi Arabia, who have received their Emergency Certificates
(ECs), to get their final exit visa immediately from Saudi officials.

amendment 13a




 Rajapaksa sibling as spl envoy to India





Colombo, June 30



 Sri Lanka will send President Mahinda Rajapaksa's younger brother Basil Rajapaksa to Delhi to hold talks with the Indian leadership over its controversial plan to tinker with the India-moved 13th Amendment (13A), government sources today said.

Mandela ‘critical but stable’
Pretoria, June 30




 Anti-apartheid hero Nelson Mandela’s condition remains “critical but stable” on the 23rd day of his hospitalisation for a recurring lung ailment, even as a stream of people continued to flock the hospital here to pray for the recovery of the 94-year-old former President.


Archbishop Desmond Tutu attends the launch of Cape Town’s Nelson Mandela Legacy Exhibition at the Civic Centre on Sunday. — AFP


Gwadar port, economic corridor tops Sharif’s agenda in China
Beijing, June 30




 Ahead of his first foreign trip after assuming office, Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has said that clinching the proposed economic corridor linking the strategic Gwadar Port with China’s Xinjiang province, a “game-changer” for the region, would top his agenda here.


Shed GDP obsession, return to Marxism, Xi tells cadres
Beijing, June 30




 Officials of ruling Communist Party of China should shed the obsession with GDP numbers to get promotions and return to principles of Marxism, which suffered an ideological meltdown in the course of the country’s economic reforms, President Xi Jinping said today.



Peshawar, June 30
 At least 43 persons were killed and over 100 injured in Pakistan today in different attacks, including a powerful bomb blast that targeted a passing convoy of security forces.
In the first incident, at least 17 persons, including four children, were killed and nearly 50 injured when the powerful remote-controlled bomb targeted a passing convoy of security forces near a busy market here in northwest Pakistan.
The blast, believed to be an IED explosion, targeted the convoy of Frontier Corps on their way to Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s capital Peshawar from Kohat district but narrowly missed it.
Javed Marwat, Deputy Commissioner of Peshawar, said, "Seventeen people were killed in the remote control blast."
In another attack, two bomb blasts near a Shiite mosque killed at least 19 people in southwestern city of Quetta.
The suspected suicide bombing near Abu Talib Imambargah at the Shiite-majority Hazara town also injured over 60 persons.
In South Waziristan, a rocket attack killed four people and injured 15 others while in the North Waziristan tribal region, a roadside bomb killed three security personnel, officials said.
Marwat told reporters that the injured were shifted to Lady Reading Hospital and condition of some of them were critical.
According to police‚ the bomb was planted in a car and was triggered when the convoy approached was passing through Badaber area of Peshawar.
Bomb Disposal Squad official Abdul Haq said 40-50 kg of explosives were used in the blast, which also destroyed 10 vehicles and several shops. — PTI


Will stand together with Pak to fight terror, says Cameron



Islamabad, June 30

 Britain's Prime Minister David Cameron today promised to "stand together" with Pakistan in the war against terrorism and nudged his counterpart Nawaz Sharif to help clinch a peace deal with Afghanistan before NATO's withdrawal from the war-torn nation next year.

Cameron, who became the first western leader to visit Islamabad since election of Sharif in May, said Britain and Pakistan had a shared interest in the "battle against terrorism".
"This is a battle that requires a tough and uncompromising security response. But it is also a battle that has to go so much wider. Countering extremism and radicalisation, investing in education, tackling poverty, dealing in all the issues that can fuel extremism and radicalisation," he said.
"We will stand together and conduct this fight against extremism and terrorism," Cameron said at a joint press conference with Sharif here.
Advocating strong Af-Pak ties, the British Prime Minister said, "I profoundly believe that a stable, prosperous, peaceful and democratic Afghanistan is in Pakistan's interest, just as a stable, prosperous, peaceful and democratic Pakistan is in Afghanistan's interest."
Cameron told Sharif he knew he and Afghan President Hamid Karzai "will work together towards those ends." Responding to Cameron's appeal, Sharif said, "I have assured Prime Minister Cameron of our firm resolve to promote the shared objective of a peaceful and stable Afghanistan, to which the three million Afghan refugees currently living in Pakistan can return with honour and dignity." Sharif said he had assured Cameron "of our shared resolve to seek a peaceful and stable Afghanistan". — PTI 
This is a battle that requires a tough, uncompromising security response. But it is also a battle that has to go so much wider. Countering extremism and radicalisation, investing in education, tackling poverty, dealing in all the issues that can fuel extremism and radicalization.
— David Cameron, British PM



Pak power crisis: Minister to visit India




Islamabad, June 30

 Pakistan’s Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has directed his Water and Power Minister to India to address the severe energy crisis facing the country.
"We are facing acute electricity shortage and any assistance in the power sector will help us in addressing the problem," Sharif said while speaking to members of the Pak-India Joint Business Council at the Prime Minister's Office yesterday.Sharif told the meeting that he had directed Khawaja Muhammad Asif, Minister for Water and Power, to visit India and explore potential areas of cooperation between the two countries, the official APP news agency reported.Earlier, Asif had said that the energy crisis in Pakistan would take at least two years to resolve.Asif said that due to shortage of power, the country had sustained a huge loss of Rs 1,000 billion in the past five years. Pakistan is currently facing a power deficit of 4,000-5,000 megawatts per day.Earlier this month, Pakistan had sought 500 MW of electricity from India by laying a transmission line from Punjab to Lahore. The proposal to buy power was made when an Indian expert group visited Pakistan to discuss energy cooperation. — PTI 





Islamabad, June 30

 Pakistan’s Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has directed his Water and Power Minister to India to address the severe energy crisis facing the country.

"We are facing acute electricity shortage and any assistance in the power sector will help us in addressing the problem," Sharif said while speaking to members of the Pak-India Joint Business Council at the Prime Minister's Office yesterday.
Sharif told the meeting that he had directed Khawaja Muhammad Asif, Minister for Water and Power, to visit India and explore potential areas of cooperation between the two countries, the official APP news agency reported.
Earlier, Asif had said that the energy crisis in Pakistan would take at least two years to resolve.
Asif said that due to shortage of power, the country had sustained a huge loss of Rs 1,000 billion in the past five years. Pakistan is currently facing a power deficit of 4,000-5,000 megawatts per day.
Earlier this month, Pakistan had sought 500 MW of electricity from India by laying a transmission line from Punjab to Lahore. The proposal to buy power was made when an Indian expert group visited Pakistan to discuss energy cooperation. — PTI 

Thousands of Egyptian protesters gather in Tahrir Square to rally against Egypt's President Mohammed Mursi, in Cairo, on Saturday. — AP/PTI
Cairo, June 30
 Egypt was on the edge today as protest rallies demanding Mohammed Mursi's ouster and early elections kicked off across the deeply polarised country on the first anniversary of his presidency, raising fears of an escalation in violence.
The grassroots Tamarod ('Rebellion' in Arabic) movement is driving the protest campaign with a petition of signatures seeking Mursi's ouster and a snap election, which has united liberal and secular opposition groups, including the National Salvation Front. However, many ordinary Egyptians —angered by Mursi's political and economic policies — are also taking part in the rally.
Opposition activists say more than 22 million people have signed the petition and have urged the signatories to come out in Cairo's Tahrir Square.
Thousands spent the night at Tahrir Square, focus of the Arab Spring protests which brought down ex-leader Hosni Mubarak in 2011.
The current protests come on the first anniversary of Mursi's election as the country's first Islamist president. 61-year-old Mursi's opponents say he has failed to tackle economic and security problems.
Critics also say he has put the Islamist agenda of his Muslim Brotherhood party ahead of the country's wider interests. In Cairo, anti-Mursi supporters waving red cards chanted: "Irhal! Irhal!" ("Leave! Leave!").
The rallies from the square and elsewhere in Alexandria are expected to move later in the day to the central Sidi Gaber area.
The Suez Canal city of Port Said, in north-east Egypt, is expected to see similar rallies today.
A big stage has been erected in the city's main square, with protesters checking the identities of those going in and out of the square.
There are similar rallies in Suez, Monofia and Sharqiya - the birthplace of Mursi. Supporters of the president are also holding their own rallies. Egyptians have been waiting with anticipation for today's protests for many weeks - the opposition vowing not to leave until Mursi steps down and calls early presidential elections.
But his supporters point out that Mursi was elected and say he should see out his full term in office, indicating a deep split in Egyptian society.
Flags and tents form a base camp on the square from where protesters plan to march on the presidential palace.
In the tense build up to the protests, at least three people, including a US citizen, died in violence on Friday. — PTI

London, June 30

 Britain is set to tighten its rules to close loopholes that allow migrants to wrongly access free-for-all health care while in the country.

The plans, to be announced by Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt on Friday, are part of a crackdown on "health tourists" - those who live outside the European Union but use National Health Service (NHS) to obtain free health care. "No one expects health workers to become immigration guards. We want to work alongside doctors to bring about improvements, but I'm clear we must protect the NHS from costly abuse,” Hunt told 'The Observer'.
"We want a system that is fair to the British taxpayer by ensuring foreign nationals pay for NHS treatment. By looking at the scale of the problem and at where improvements can be made, we will help ensure the NHS remains sustainable for many years to come," he added.
Last year, the NHS identified that foreign nationals had cost hospitals £33 million, and it was forced to write off £12 million of this sum. However, some estimates put this figure far higher.
Under the new plans, non-EU patients will face charges when they seek treatment if they cannot provide proof of residency.
Anyone in Britain can currently register with a general practitioner for free and obtain an NHS number.
People who have lived in the UK for less than a year are required to pay for non-emergency hospital treatment but many don't because staff assume the NHS number means they are eligible for free care. A new registration and tracking system will now spot people who do not qualify for free health care.
The measures are being launched to coincide with the 65th anniversary of the NHS this Friday and are the latest in a string of measures being considered by the Conservative-led coalition government to deal with the issue of migration into the UK and mounting costs of maintaining a free health service. — PTI


Indians in S Arabia told to get final exit visa immediately



Dubai, June 30

 India has asked its nationals living in Saudi Arabia, who have received their Emergency Certificates (ECs), to get their final exit visa immediately from Saudi officials.

The Indian embassy in Riyadh said that it has completed the process of issuing ECs to all those applicants who have verified their personal particulars with the mission.
The new Saudi labour law called 'Nitaqat' makes it mandatory for local companies to hire one Saudi national for every 10 migrant workers.
As a result, a number of people from foreign countries who were working without valid work permits and runaways have come under the scanner. The Indian embassy has been issuing Emergency Certificates to such nationals to enable them to leave Saudi Arabia.
Embassy officials deployed at various labour offices in Riyadh and Dammam and at Riyadh Airport will continue to be available at these places in the coming weeks.
As of May 20, 75,000 Indians had registered with the Indian Embassy in Riyadh and the Consulate in Jeddah to be processed and be send back with 'emergency certificate'. There are over two million Indians in Saudi Arabia.
Meanwhile, in view of the decision by Saudi Arabia to shift the weekend to Friday and Saturday, the Indian embassy too will observe working day from Sunday to Thursday starting July 1. Friday and Saturday will be holidays in consonance with the Saudi official working days. — PTI 
Sticky issue


 The Indian Embassy in Riyadh said that it has completed the process of issuing ECs to all those applicants who have verified their personal particulars with the mission
 The new Saudi labour law called 'Nitaqat' makes it mandatory for local companies to hire one Saudi national for every 10 migrant workers
 As a result, a number of people from foreign countries who were working without valid work permits and runaways have come under the scanner






Colombo, June 30

 Sri Lanka will send President Mahinda Rajapaksa's younger brother Basil Rajapaksa to Delhi to hold talks with the Indian leadership over its controversial plan to tinker with the India-moved 13th Amendment (13A), government sources today said.

Basil Rajapaksa, Minister of Economic Development and the key political adviser to his brother, will leave Colombo on July 4.
Basil was quoted as saying in the Sunday Times here today that he would be meeting External Affairs Minister Salman Khurshid and National Security Adviser Shivashankar Menon.
Analysts say Indian pressure has forced Colombo to retain the 13A sans amendments until the conclusion of the northern provincial council elections scheduled for September.
Khurshid in a phone conversation with his Sri Lankan counterpart GL Peiris in May had stressed that Colombo should not unilaterally move against the 13A.
The younger Rajapaksa visit comes in the backdrop of a visit to New Delhi by the main Tamil party Tamil National Alliance (TNA) which opposed the government plans at the behest of its nationalist allies to dilute 13A. The tinkering of the 13A, a byproduct of the Indo-Sri Lankan Accord of July 1987 to try and resolve the ethnic conflict, is being attempted ahead of the provincial council elections in Tamil-dominated northern areas in September.— PTI
Pretoria, June 30
 Anti-apartheid hero Nelson Mandela’s condition remains “critical but stable” on the 23rd day of his hospitalisation for a recurring lung ailment, even as a stream of people continued to flock the hospital here to pray for the recovery of the 94-year-old former President.Well-wishers were singing and saying prayers outside the Mediclinic Heart Hospital here and at Soweto former home of Mandela.They have brought their revered father figure cards, flowers, balloons, presents, teddy bears, artwork and posters.There was no official word today on the medical condition of the country's first black President, who spent 27 years behind bars fighting the minority apartheid regime to establish the multiracial democracy.President Jacob Zuma yesterday said Mandela remained in a critical condition and hoped the democracy icon would leave hospital soon.“These are very excellent doctors who are dealing with him,” Zuma had said. "We hope that very soon he will be out of hospital." Limpopo traditional leader Queen Sekgopo said she was in Pretoria to pray for Mandela, who was admitted to the hospital with a recurring lung infection on June 8.“I am here to pray for Madiba, to wish him well and to pray that God will keep him safe for us," she said using Mandela's clan name.Gawie and Petra du Preez brought their seven-year-old daughter Michelle and her six-year-old friend Minke Myburg to drop off flowers and cards at the hospital.Michelle and Minke shyly said: "We love you Madiba." Six-year-old Jeane Lotter proudly said she had made a card for Mandela and pasted stickers on it to show her love."I am here because Mandela is sick. He loves everyone and children," she said, quoted by SAPA news agency.In the street, vendors were selling everything from food to Mandela merchandise.Mandela, who turns 95 on July 18, respected across the globe as a symbol of resistance against injustice. Mandela had a long history of lung problems, dating back to the time when he was a political prisoner on Robben Island during apartheid. While in jail, he contracted tuberculosis.— PTI
Well-wishers were singing and saying prayers outside the Mediclinic Heart Hospital here and at Soweto former home of Mandela.
They have brought their revered father figure cards, flowers, balloons, presents, teddy bears, artwork and posters.
There was no official word today on the medical condition of the country's first black President, who spent 27 years behind bars fighting the minority apartheid regime to establish the multiracial democracy.
President Jacob Zuma yesterday said Mandela remained in a critical condition and hoped the democracy icon would leave hospital soon.
“These are very excellent doctors who are dealing with him,” Zuma had said. "We hope that very soon he will be out of hospital." Limpopo traditional leader Queen Sekgopo said she was in Pretoria to pray for Mandela, who was admitted to the hospital with a recurring lung infection on June 8.
“I am here to pray for Madiba, to wish him well and to pray that God will keep him safe for us," she said using Mandela's clan name.
Gawie and Petra du Preez brought their seven-year-old daughter Michelle and her six-year-old friend Minke Myburg to drop off flowers and cards at the hospital.
Michelle and Minke shyly said: "We love you Madiba." Six-year-old Jeane Lotter proudly said she had made a card for Mandela and pasted stickers on it to show her love.
"I am here because Mandela is sick. He loves everyone and children," she said, quoted by SAPA news agency.
In the street, vendors were selling everything from food to Mandela merchandise.
Mandela, who turns 95 on July 18, respected across the globe as a symbol of resistance against injustice. Mandela had a long history of lung problems, dating back to the time when he was a political prisoner on Robben Island during apartheid. While in jail, he contracted tuberculosis.— PTI
Beijing, June 30
 Ahead of his first foreign trip after assuming office, Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has said that clinching the proposed economic corridor linking the strategic Gwadar Port with China’s Xinjiang province, a “game-changer” for the region, would top his agenda here.Sharif said the new economic corridor, which will connect the resource-rich western region with Gwadar port, has the potential to "change the fate" of the region. "The economic corridor taking off from Kashgar in Xinjiang to Gwadar is a game changer as far as this region is concerned," Sharif told the Chinese media ahead of his visit. The proposed corridor will pass through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.Sharif’s six-day visit, beginning from June 4, coincides with the tour of Defence Minister AK Antony here, bringing the India-Pak-China diplomatic tangle into focus.Sharif's tour will be a follow up visit to Chinese Premier Li Keqiang's trip to Islamabad last month. — PTI
Sharif said the new economic corridor, which will connect the resource-rich western region with Gwadar port, has the potential to "change the fate" of the region. "The economic corridor taking off from Kashgar in Xinjiang to Gwadar is a game changer as far as this region is concerned," Sharif told the Chinese media ahead of his visit. The proposed corridor will pass through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.
Sharif’s six-day visit, beginning from June 4, coincides with the tour of Defence Minister AK Antony here, bringing the India-Pak-China diplomatic tangle into focus.
Sharif's tour will be a follow up visit to Chinese Premier Li Keqiang's trip to Islamabad last month. — PTI
Beijing, June 30
 Officials of ruling Communist Party of China should shed the obsession with GDP numbers to get promotions and return to principles of Marxism, which suffered an ideological meltdown in the course of the country’s economic reforms, President Xi Jinping said today.The party should adopt more comprehensive criteria for assessing the performance of its officials other than judging them from GDP numbers, Xi, also general secretary of the CPC, told a meeting on the eve of the 92nd founding anniversary of the party which has ruled the country since 1949.The party should consider a local official’s work in various aspects including people’s livelihood, the development of local society and the quality of environment, Xi said."We should never judge a cadre simply by the GDP," he said expressing annoyance over excessive focus on economic growth numbers by local and provincial officials to highlight the development in their regions. — PTI
The party should adopt more comprehensive criteria for assessing the performance of its officials other than judging them from GDP numbers, Xi, also general secretary of the CPC, told a meeting on the eve of the 92nd founding anniversary of the party which has ruled the country since 1949.
The party should consider a local official’s work in various aspects including people’s livelihood, the development of local society and the quality of environment, Xi said.
"We should never judge a cadre simply by the GDP," he said expressing annoyance over excessive focus on economic growth numbers by local and provincial officials to highlight the development in their regions. — PTI
Last fugitive of Xinjiang attack held 
 Beijing: Stepping up security in the ethnically-divided Xinjiang province, Chinese police on Sunday said it arrested the "only rioter at large" after a series of violent clashes killed at least 35 persons. "The police in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region on Sunday captured the only rioter at large after a violent terrorist attack," state-run Xinhua news agency said.
 — PTI
Putin signs anti-gay law 
 Moscow: Russian President Vladimir Putin has signed into law a measure that stigmatises gay people and bans giving children any information about homosexuality. The lower House of Russia's parliament had unanimously passed the Kremlin-backed Bill on June 11 and the Upper House approved it last week.
 — AP
Islamabad
 Pak 'blasphemy' girl moves to Canada: A Pakistani Christian girl who was arrested for alleged blasphemy last year and forced into hiding for fear of her life has moved to Canada, an activist said on Sunday. Rimsha Masih could have faced life in prison if convicted over allegations that she set fire to pages of the Koran in the poor neighbourhood where she lived on the edge of Islamabad.
 — AFP

Kampala
 31 dead in oil tanker blaze in Uganda capital : At least 31 persons have died in a blaze that engulfed an oil tanker after it was hit by another vehicle in a suburb of the Ugandan capital, police said on Sunday. "We can confirm 31 dead and over 10 others seriously injured in the inferno," Kampala Metropolitan Police commander Andrew Kaweesa said after inspecting the scene of the accident that took place on Saturday night. — AFP