2013-01~06
http://azstarnet.com/news/world/around-the-world/article_e2200200-6d2b-5e06-8fb0-5d8c628bbf81.html

Around the world
Thanks for being a frequent visitor to tucson.com. You have now viewed of your FREE premium pages this 30-day period. After you have viewed FREE pages, we will ask you to purchase a subscription.
Thank you for reading and relying on tucson.com for your news and information. You have now viewed your 30-day allowance of FREE pages. Want to read more?
21 places to stop in Arizona's most exciting Mexican food neighborhood. More at tucson.com/tacos
It's not a primary election, which picks party candidates for the general.
Store is third opened here by the Colorado chain since early 2015, with a fourth in the works.
Backers say current law leaves some people without loan options, but the interest rates alarm opponents.
Find out what’s on TV and radio today in the sporting world.
Redshirt senior, a playmaker last year, counted on as a leader in 2016.
Timelapse video from the roof of the Arizona Daily Star for Monday, March 21, 2016.
The residents of Holy Trinity Monastery in St. David, Arizona — some permanent and some snowbirds — participate in the prayer schedule and wor…
Happy spring! (ish.) Try our quiz to find out your perfect time of year.
Here are some of the best from readers. Send yours to eds@tucson.com
21 places to stop in Arizona's most exciting Mexican food neighborhood. More at tucson.com/tacos
Views on Flake's Cuba opinion, Democrat's big money donors, Pac-12 in tournament.
Photos from February's funeral notices with links to the obituaries of each person. For more obituaries go to legacy.com/obituaries/tucson/
Photos from January's funeral notices with links to the obituaries of each person. For more obituaries go to legacy.com/obituaries/tucson/
LONDON - WikiLeaks said Wednesday that it has secured a victory in Iceland's Supreme Court against the financial blockade imposed by Visa and MasterCard on donations for the secret-spilling site.
Visa and MasterCard were among half a dozen major U.S. financial firms to pull the plug on WikiLeaks after its decision to begin publishing about 250,000 U.S. State Department cables in late 2010. WikiLeaks has claimed that the financial blockade led to a 95 percent fall in revenue.
It said Wednesday that Iceland's Supreme Court had upheld a district court's decision that MasterCard's local partner, Valitor, had illegally terminated its contract with WikiLeaks' payment processor, DataCell.
The court warned Valitor it would be fined 800,000 Icelandic krona ($6,824) per day if the gateway to WikiLeaks donations is not reopened within 15 days, WikiLeaks said.
LONDON - A massive, partly fossilized egg laid by a now-extinct elephant bird has sold for more than double its estimate at a London auction.
Christie's auction house said Wednesday that the foot-long, nearly 9-inches-in-diameter egg fetched about $102,000. It was sold to an anonymous buyer over the telephone after about 10 minutes of competitive bidding.
Elephant birds were wiped out several hundred years ago. The oversized ovum, laid on the island of Madagascar, is believed to date back before the 17th century. Flightless, fruit-gobbling elephant birds resembled giant ostriches and could grow to be 11 feet high. Christie's says their eggs are 100 times the size of an average chicken's.
BEIJING - In the deadliest ethnic violence in China since 2009, 21 people were killed in confrontations Tuesday between police and Uighur residents of Kashgar, the country's westernmost city.
Among the dead were 15 police and neighborhood security officers and six people that the state media described as "mobsters."
Kashgar, which lies close to China's borders with Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, has been a frequent site of violence between the dominant ethnic Han Chinese and the Uighurs, a Muslim minority. As is often the case, it was difficult to confirm details of the incident, and the account offered by authorities was vague.
LA PAZ - Roman Catholic faithful are praying and holding vigils for the Virgin of Copacabana after thieves stole the jewels, gold and rings that adorned Bolivia's patron saint.
The 16th-century statue graces the altar of the Basilica of Our Lady of Copacabana in Copacabana, Bolivia. Priests say thieves propped a ladder against a back wall of the basilica Monday, entered through a window and stripped the holy icon of 10 rings, eight adornments and the baby she held in her arms.
It was the latest in a wave of thefts affecting Bolivia's colonial churches.
PRAGUE - The Czech Republic plans to donate $200,000 to help the Texas town of West recover from a devastating fertilizer plant explosion.
The government decided to provide the aid in solidarity because a significant number of people in the town of 2,700 have Czech roots. The blast damaged numerous homes in the town. Thousands of Czechs, mostly from the eastern part known of Moravia, settled in Texas more than 100 years ago.
Copyright 2016 Arizona Daily Star. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Maximize your exposure with FREE registration on the top search engines: