2013-01~06
http://www.thenews.com.pk/Todays-News-1-186478-Police-block-site-of-deadly-China-Xinjiang-riot

Car bomb kills 12 rebels in south Yemen | World | thenews.com.pk
ADEN: A bomb-laden vehicle parked near an arms depot exploded killing 12 Iran-backed rebels and wounding eight others in southern Yemen´s Abyan province on Saturday, a local official told AFP.The official said the attack in the coastal city of Shoqra was carried out by local anti-rebel fighters. Anti-rebel forces are made up of pro-government fighters, Sunni tribes and southern separatists, collectively known as Popular Resistance Committees.In the southern port city of Aden, coalition warplanes launched deadly airstrikes against rebel positions, a military official said, without giving a toll.Aden has been the scene of deadly clashes between the rebels, who include troops loyal to ousted president Ali Abdullah Saleh, and Popular Resistance fighters.A health official in the city told AFP that "nine people, among them four civilians, were killed and 132 people wounded during the past 48 hours."The casualties were caused by "random Huthi shelling of residential areas" using mortar rounds and Katyusha rockets, as well as ongoing clashes, the spokesman of the Popular Resistance leadership in Aden, Ali al-Ahmedi, told AFP.According to the World Health Organization, the Yemen conflict has since March killed almost 2,000 people and wounded 8,000, with hundreds of women and children among the casualties.
With less than a week to go before Zack Snyder’s Batman v Superman:...
 Margalla Kings: After performing last year, Adil Omar and Talal...
Ranveer Singh (seen here with Amitabh Bachchan & Shah Rukh Khan) is...
COMMENT
Pleasant words always soothe the audience. Each person is hid...
ENERGY
To help address the local and national power supply shortfalls,...
 The hymn of a cat
Make the world your playground
Whenever you...
I don’t want to marry my fiancé
Hi Guru,
I am a...
Coming Soon
Out this week:
Albums

This Is What the Truth Feels Like...
For that ‘glow’
Want clear and healthy skin? All you have to...