2013-01~06
http://www.isciencetimes.com/articles/5522/20130627/china-knife-attack-kills-27-what-caused.htm

China Knife Attack Kills 27: What Caused The Muslim Uighur Riot? - International Science Times
China Knife Attack Kills 27: What Caused The Muslim Uighur Riot?

By
Staff Reporter
 
 on June 27, 2013 7:16 PM EDT 


A China knife attack claimed the lives of at least 27 victims as a massive gang of men armed with knives attacked a police station and local government building of the remote Lukqun Township of the Xinjiang province in western China. The riot also involved police vehicles set on fire.
The incident occurred Wednesday morning, 6 a.m. local time. According to NBC News, knife-wielding assailants killed nine policemen and 17 civilians. Ten attackers were shot dead before the horrifying attack ended.
While the motive of the violent attack is not clear, the Xinjiang region is home to a large Muslim Uighur minority. Uighurs, who speak a Turkic language, have been extremely unhappy with restrictions against their culture, language, and religion implemented by the Chinese government.
The Chinese government counters the claim, stating that Uighurs are granted a wide range of freedoms. Instead, the Chinese officials accuse extremists for causing unnecessary conflict.
The China knife attack on Wednesday is the deadliest Chinese incident since the the riot of July 2009, when nearly 200 Chinese and Uighur victims were killed in the regional capital of Urumqi.
Information from the Xinjiang aria is tightly controlled as the Chinese government considers the highly sensitive tensions in the area. Heavy security presence is stationed at the area to curb the unrest. However, the forces supervising the area are spread, making the shocking China knife attack difficult to contain.
While Chinese media are actively trying to censor the details surrounding the terrifying China knife attack, the following video footage has leaked:
© 2012 iScience Times All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.
25 Year Study Reveals Eco-Farming To Be Economically Feasible And Sustainable
How Methane-Producing Microbes Caused The Largest Mass Extinction The World Has Ever Seen
Terrifying Animatronic Robot Dances To 'Blurred Lines,' Causes Nightmares [VIDEO]
Scientists Demonstrate Three-Way Quantum Communication: What's Faster Than The Speed Of Light?
Woolly Mammoth DNA To Be Cloned, Then Joined With Elephant DNA To Create New Creature
Oculus Rift Headset Will Take You On A Trip To Space, All From The Comfort Of Your Couch
About Us / Contact Us / Privacy Policy / Terms and Conditions © 2016 iScienceTimes. All rights reserved.