2013-01~06
http://www.iol.co.za/news/world/riots-kill-27-in-chinese-region-1.1538024

Riots kill 27 in Chinese region | IOL
 Beijing - Gangs armed with knives attacked a police station and a local government building on Wednesday in China's restive far western Xinjiang region, leaving 27 dead in clashes with police, the government news agency Xinhua said.
The unrest in the region, home to a large Muslim Uighur minority, was the deadliest since July 2009, when nearly 200 people were killed in riots pitting Uighurs against ethnic Chinese in the region's capital Urumqi.
Xinhua said Wednesday's unrest erupted at about 6am in the remote township of Lukqun, about 200km south-east of Urumqi.
Gangs attacked Lukqun's police stations, the local government building and a construction site, stabbing people and setting fire to police vehicles, Xinhua quoted regional Communist Party officials as saying.
Nine policemen and security guards and eight civilians were killed before police shot dead 10 of the attackers, Xinhua quoted the officials as saying.
Mmany Uighurs, Muslims who speak a Turkic language, chafe at what they call Chinese government restrictions on their culture, language and religion.
China says it grants Uighurs wide-ranging freedoms and accuses extremists of separatism. - Reuters
Two explosions ripped through Brussels airport during the morning rush hour as hundreds of passengers were trying to check in.
The FBI revealed it may have a way to access data on Syed Rizwan Farook's encrypted iPhone without Apple Inc’s help.
President Barack Obama and Cuban President Raul Castro prodded each other during an unprecedented joint news conference in Havana.
Five people have been killed by wild elephants that went on the rampage, triggering panic in a village in eastern India, a local official said.
Donald Trump often tells crowds that he doesn't need outside financial support to get to the White House, but some of his ...
North Korea fired five short-range projectiles into the sea off its east coast , South Korea's military said.
President Barack Obama turns from sightseeing to state business on his historic Cuba trip.
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump said that “professional agitators” bore much of the blame for violence at his rallies.