2013-01~06
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/Blog/2013/06/27/China-knife-attack-kills-27-in-ethnic-clashes/4701372368331/

27 killed in knife attack in Xinjiang-Xinhua - UPI.com
A knife attack in western China early Wednesday left 27 people dead, the bloodiest incident since 2009 in a region marked with ethnic violence.
The violence in Lukqun, a town in the Turkic-speaking Xinjiang province, which was described in local media as "riots," also left at least three people injured.
Of the dead, 17 people, including 10 police, were victims of the assailants. Police were then able to shoot and kill the 10 attackers.
All information about the attack came from the official state news agency Xinhua, and otherwise kept under wraps by Chinese authorities.
It was not immediately clear what sparked the attacks, but the Uighur Muslim population has consistently strained against Han Chinese "sustained repression and provocation." China, in turn, often blames Uighur activists for provoking violence.
A riot in 2009 that left 200 dead is the most violent of the long-standing unrest in the region.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.