2013-01~06
http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/worldviews/wp/2014/05/27/chinas-terrorism-problem-creates-commute-from-hell/

China’s terrorism problem creates commute from hell - The Washington Post
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
The Beijing Subway may be the busiest in the world, with 16 lines completing more than 10 million passenger rides a day. That's an impressive feat, but it also represents a serious security problem – especially in the wake of a bomb attack at a train station in Urumqi last month that left three dead and a knife attack the month before in Kunming, Yunnan province, in which 29 people were slashed to death.
Because of that risk, some Beijing residents are facing a serious problem with their commutes, as the photographs here show.
Tiantongyuan North is one of nine train stations, mostly near Tiananmen Square in central Beijing, that require all passengers to go through a security check before entering. The security checks began in January, building on previous checks on passengers' luggage that were put in place during the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
According to the Nanfang, the already strict security was "dramatically tightened" recently, resulting in the scenes you see here.
It may seem like an extreme measure, but it's understandable. Although the train station attacks occurred far from Beijing, the Chinese capital has been touched by terrorism before: Last year, members of the Uighur ethnic minority rammed through crowds in Tiananmen Square, killing themselves and two tourists.
The long lines aren't the only sign of a security push at Beijing's subways. According to CRIEnglish, police officers armed with guns were recently stationed at five major subway stops, including Xidan, Dongdan, Tiananmen East, Tiananmen West and Wangfujing. It is reportedly the first time that regular Chinese cops have been armed with guns.
As my colleague Ishaan Tharoor wrote recently, there a lot of reasons to suspect that China's Uighur terrorism problem may be worsening. And while a growing Islamist militancy in the region may be a serious factor, the government's heavy-handed response to ethnic problems in the Uighur homeland of Xinjiang hasn't helped.
Of course, you have to wonder if the mass of people outside Beijing's train stations are themselves a prime target for terrorists. “I am afraid that not many could safely escape if terrorists suddenly draw knives within the crowd,” one blogger quoted by the South China Morning Post said.
For some Beijing commuters, however, the new lines may he just another hassle in an already difficult commute. This video shows how bad rush hour can get at Beijing's Xierqi subway station. It was shot in July, before the latest security measures were implemented:
We will update you when news breaks about the virus.
Success! Check your inbox for details. You might also like:
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses!
Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games!
Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve.