2014-10~12
https://www.opendemocracy.net/alex-franquelli/prominent-uyghur-academic-ilham-tohti-jailed-for-life

Prominent Uyghur academic Ilham Tohti jailed for life | openDemocracy
With its
shocking outcome, this trial might result in an increase in violence in the
Xinjiang region, where protests for the mistreatment of a moderate voice could
motivate the more radical factions.
When poet
Abduxaliq Uyghur penned the verses of “Oyghan” in 1921, the times were dire for
the Uyghur minority in Western China. The chaotic political vacuum in which the
Xinjiang region found itself at the end of the Qing dynasty and during the
first years of the Republican era, provided the ideal hotbed for the
ever-latent Pan-Turkic idea.
Hey,
poor Uyghur, wake up, you have slept long enough, You have nothing, what is now
at stake is your very life. If you don’t rescue yourself from this death, Ah,
your end will be looming, your end will be looming […]
Not much has changed
with the demise of the Kuomintang and the rise of the Democratic Republic of
China, and Uyghur identity has remained fragmented, split between Pan-Turkism
and Pan-Islamism, with a lack of a credible and unifying leadership that could
sit at the negotiating table with its powerful Chinese counterpart. Economist
Ilham Tohti, an academic who has always championed a moderate view, is
undoubtedly one of the most authoritative voices of its people having taught at
Minzu University of China in Beijing (formerly Central Nationalities
University) and having co-founded Uyghur Online, one of the few platforms
promoting a mutual exchange of opinions and information between Han Chinese and
Uyghurs.
Tohti, 44,
was the recipient of the 2014 PEN/Barbara Goldsmith Freedom to Write Award, but
he was never able to accept his prize, having been imprisoned in January
following a string of harassment incidents and intimidations which concluded
with him not being able to see his lawyer for many months. On September 17, a
trial began in which a guilty verdict appeared inevitable, but almost nobody
took into consideration the possibility that Ilham Tohti could indeed spend the
rest of his life behind bars.
US Secretary
of State John Kerry’s reaction to the life sentence was one of surprise and
disdain, but what worries observers and human rights associations right now is
the fear that this sentence could mark the beginning of a new stage of
repression, not only in Xinjiang, but also in other areas of the Middle
Kingdom. Although Tohti has denied the charges, he was accused of being the
political arm of a not better-identified jihad conspiring against the
unity of the Chinese state by posing as the ideologist of an armed separatist
faction. The links between Ilham Tohti, his students (some of them imprisoned
as well) and the violent fringes of Xinjiang’s Uyghur ethnic group are yet to
be proven.
What seems to
worry the authorities is the escalating ethnic tension between the two main
groups (the Uyghurs and the Han Chinese) which culminated in 2009 in a series
of riots in the capital city of Ürümqi, where almost 200 people were killed,
and more than 800 were injured. Human rights organisations, such as the Uyghurs Human Right Project or The International Uyghur Human Rights and Democracy
Foundation maintain that the vast majority of the Uyghurs do not
advocate the separation of their region from the rest of China, but rather,
demand fair treatment for their ethnic group. Predominantly Muslim, the Uyghurs
appeal for freedom of faith and expression in an area where women are prevented
from wearing headscarves and only state-approved editions of the Quran can be
read.
Chinese
authorities, on the other hand, have accused the Uyghur minority of plotting to
erode Chinese control in the region through a series of attacks. They blame
them for the recent mass stabbing at Kunming railway station and 2013’s suicide
attack in Tiananmen Square. However, as is always the case in China, investigations
following the attacks have remained secret and reporting on the findings has
been strictly controlled by the Government.
According to
Katy Glenn Bass, deputy director of the PEN American Centre, “[…]
one of the tragedies of this whole situation is that if the Chinese government
was more reasonable, Ilham Tohti could be one of their greatest allies — this
is a peaceful, moderate, thoughtful scholar who has spent his whole life trying
to find solutions to China’s ethnic tensions”.
Li Fangping,
one of Mr Tohti’s lawyers, recently
revealed to the New York Times that “Mr. Tohti is an advocate for
Uighur rights and religious freedom for the Uighur people, but he was never an
advocate for Xinjiang independence or any kind of separatism”. So, could a call
for equality and a persistent demand for justice pose a threat to the stability
of the Chinese state? According to the reaction of the Chinese Government, it
can.
“I have
relentlessly appealed for equality for Uyghurs in regards to their
individuality, religion, and culture”, Mr Tohti stated in January.
“I have persistently demanded justice from the Chinese government. However, I
have never pursued a violent route and I have never joined a group that
utilized violence”. 
According to
Maya Wang, of Human Right Watch,
speaking to The Telegraph,
it would be "hard to stick a charge like terrorism on him. Even calling
him a separatist is a problem. He is known for his very measured, moderate
criticism of government policy in Xinjiang, pointing out, for example, that the
policy of Han Chinese migration needs to be re-evaluated in light of the
unemployment in Xinjiang," she added.
With its shocking
outcome, this trial might result in an increase in violence in the Xinjiang
region, where protests for the mistreatment of a moderate voice could motivate
the more radical factions which, in turn, would feel legitimated in resorting
to disorders to try and overturn a regime which does not intend to loosen the
yokes of freedom of expression and social equality. In Xinjiang as well as in
other areas of the troubled outskirts of the empire.
Alex
Franquelli is a freelance journalist and writer. He focuses on Mongolia and
North-East Asian politics and ethnomusicology. Find him on twitter
@alexfranquelli
We encourage anyone to comment, please consult the oD commenting guidelines if you have any questions.