2014-10~12
http://www.dw.de/food-stalls-targeted-in-xinjiang-says-china/a-18101546

Food stalls targeted in Xinjiang, says China | News | DW.COM | 29.11.2014

Chinese state media say an attack on food stalls in China's western region of Xinjiang has resulted in 15 deaths. Eleven of those killed were allegedly assailants tracked down by police.


China's Xinhua news agency said on Saturday that the incident occurred on Friday in Shache County in Xinjiang. The region has a long history of discord between authorities and its indigenous ethnic Uighur population.

Xinhua said the attackers, who it did not identify, also stabbed people in the crowded street where vendors were selling food. Fourteen other people were wounded.

The state-owned Xinjiang news website Tianshan News said police also found detonation devices, large knives and axes at the scene.

Heavy restrictions on journalists in Xinjiang have made verification of details of such incidents difficult.

The state-backed newspaper China Daily reported on Saturday that Xinjiang's regional authority had on Friday banned residents from wearing or forcing others to wear logos or clothes associated with religious extremism.

Over the past six months, Chinese state media outlets have cited at least 175 deaths in eight violent incidents in Xinjiang.

Last month, a Xinjiang court 
sentenced 12 accused to death for a series of attacks in July. Knife-wielding attackers allegedly killed 38 people.

The US-based Uyghur American Association disputed official descriptions of that incident. The association said police instead opened fire on people protesting against a security crackdown on Muslims during Ramadan, killing more than 20.

Uighurs make up about 9 million of the oil-rich region's 22-million population, which includes numerous ethnic Han Chinese migrants.
A Chinese court has sentenced 12 people to death in connection with a July attack in the restive Xinjiang region. Roughly 100 people were killed in clashes between police and an armed mob in China's northwestern region. (13.10.2014)
  

After the sentencing of Ilham Tohti, a moderate government critic, to life in prison, the conflicts in western China's restive Xinjiang province are likely to get worse, says DW columnist Frank Sieren. (27.09.2014)
  

A Chinese court has rejected the appeal of prominent Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti against his life sentence for "separatism." This comes as journalist Gao Yu is tried on charges of leaking state secrets. (21.11.2014)
  

Indonesian security forces have killed two ethnic Uighur Chinese militants following a shoot-out. The two men belonged to a militant network run by country's most wanted man.
China has announced the deaths of 28 people during a police crackdown in Xinjiang, home to many Muslim Uighurs. In September, the group allegedly launched a terror attack at a coal mine, killing more than a dozen people.
Officers in Shenyang have killed three Uighur men who they say were Islamist militants. Activists have said that Uighurs are merely being discriminated against by a "hostile" government.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
