2014-10~12
http://www.thespec.com/news-story/5163356-chinese-state-media-attack-in-western-xinjiang-region-kills-15-injures-14/

Chinese state media: Attack in western Xinjiang region kills 15, injures 14

HamiltonBusiness.com
 , 
 Young Professionals
 , 
 Economic Development
 , 
 Steeltown

Apple is gearing up for another big event Monday, as it prepares to offer...
Crosby, Quick and Monahan named the NHL's three stars of the week
Zayn Malik was banned from growing a beard or dying his hair when he was in...
Benefit eligibility is just part of a larger discussion that concerns all...
Question:
My Agreement of Purchase and Sale for a condominium unit is...

 BEIJING, China - Chinese state media say 15 people have been killed in an attack in the country's troubled western Xinjiang region.


 The official Xinhua News Agency says 14 other people were injured in what it said was a terrorist attack Friday in Shache county.


 The Tianshan news portal said Saturday that the attackers used vehicles, knives and explosives in the assault. It said the dead included 11 of the attackers.


 Such attacks have claimed dozens of lives in Xinjiang over the past year. Members of the region's Muslim Uighur (WEE-gur) minority group have bristled under what they say is repressive Chinese government rule.

When you think about the risk of cardiovascular disease, which include heart attack and stroke,...
By David Grossman


Get in to a discussion with Grey Fairley and it very quickly becomes quite...
Kosco Flooring in Hamilton Ontario, is proud to be recognized as one of Hamilton’s premier flooring...
The Truck Training Academy of Stoney Creek is proud to be part of an industry that is responsible...
The Heritage Green Nursing Home in Upper Stoney Creek, Ontario, prides itself on providing its...
Many homeowners are opting for alternative heating systems, so Binbrook Heating & Plumbing in...
Question:


What is “Undue Influence”?


Answer:


In a previous article, I wrote about the legal...
Ancaster Montessori in Ancaster, Ontario, offers early childhood education in both English and...
In this overwhelmingly digital age, no company or brand can neglect its Internet marketing, so let...
We all want to avoid costly plumbing repairs, so Binbrook Plumbing & Heating in Binbrook, Ontario,...
When the Krown Rust Control came to Hamilton, it brought with it three decades of experience and...
At Dr. Otto C.W. Lee and Associates in Hamilton, Ontario, Dr. Lee and his team of vision health...
Quality assurance is paramount for a company that’s trusted to supply fasteners to a range of...
Whether your upcoming wedding will be an intimate affair or a grand celebration for 400, Heritage...
Nicole Matthews Family & Criminal Lawyer in Hamilton, Ontario, welcomes inquiries from those who...
When you choose to go with concrete for your driveway, trust the professionals at Oakville’s Matos...
Hilltop Express in Hamilton is proud to offer authentic Greek and Canadian catering for all types...
Quality Vintners / Soul Water Plus in Hamilton, Ontario, sells craft beer and winemaking kits that...
The Spa in the Village of Burlington, nestled in the picturesque Village Square, is a gorgeous,...
The drivers at Abrams Towing Services in Hamilton, Ontario, are called to scenes for all sorts of...