2014-10~12
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/article/1646033/china-rejects-uyghur-scholars-appeal-against-life-sentence

China rejects Uygur scholar’s appeal against life sentence | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
A Chinese court on Friday rejected an appeal against a life sentence handed to a prominent scholar from the mostly-Muslim Uygur minority, as a 70-year-old journalist stood trial in a deepening crackdown on dissent.
Rights groups have decried both cases as an effort to silence critics of the ruling Communist Party, which in recent years has stepped up a campaign against activists, lawyers, academics and journalists who fail to toe the party line.
Ilham Tohti, 45, had been an outspoken critic of China’s policies towards the Uygur minority in their homeland of Xinjiang, which has been hit by a wave of violence which the government blames on separatist groups.
Rights groups say discrimination and government repression of the Uygurs’ religion and language has fuelled violence, which has claimed more than 200 lives in the past year.
Tohti’s life sentence in September was one of the harshest verdicts handed down to a government critic in decades, prompting an outcry from human rights groups as well as the US and European Union.
Tohti’s lawyer Liu Xiaoyuan said that authorities in Xinjiang’s capital Urumqi rejected his appeal, and that the scholar -- who has been kept in leg-irons for months -- had pronounced the verdict “unjust”.
“He maintains that his behaviour has not endangered state security,” Liu said. “He is upholding his point of view. Anti-violence and anti-separatism have been his beliefs all along.”
China’s case against Tohti was in part based on recordings of university lectures in which he said that Xinjiang “firstly belonged to the Uygur ethnic group,” rather than China’s Han majority, state-run media reported.
Since coming to power in 2012, China’s President Xi Jinping has overseen a campaign against government critics with hundreds detained or jailed.
They include prominent legal expert Xu Zhiyong, who was jailed for four years in January, and celebrated human rights lawyer Pu Zhiqiang, who was detained in May and has not been released.
Rejection of Tohti’s appeal came as former reporter Gao Yu stood trial in Beijing where she denied charges of “leaking state secrets,” in a case rights groups described as an attack on freedom of expression.
Asked about Tohti on Friday, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters that “dealing with the relevant case is a part of Chinese progress in the rule of law”.
The United States said it was “deeply disappointed” by the decision to uphold Tohti’s conviction and life sentence in a closed hearing.
“His detention silenced an important Uygur voice that peacefully promoted understanding among China’s ethnic groups. We will continue to call for Chinese authorities to release professor Tohti,” Jeff Rathke, a US State Department spokesman told reporters on Friday.
The US was “deeply concerned” by Gao’s trial and the detention of countless others who challenge Communist Party rule, Rathke said, urging China to ”differentiate between peaceful dissent and violent extremism”.
Sophie Richardson, China director for the US-based Human Rights Watch, called Gao’s case “a frontal assault on the freedom of expression and access to information”.
“State secrets laws have been a perfect weapon for prosecuting activists and whistleblowers like Gao Yu,” she said.
William Nee, China researcher at British-based Amnesty International, said: ”If Gao Yu and Ilham Tohti were to receive genuinely fair hearings, the charges against them would be dismissed as blatant political persecution.”