2014-10~12
http://www.singaporestar.com/index.php/sid/228676581

China Tightens Security Ahead of Christmas, New Year in Xinjiang - Singapore Star
Chinese authorities in the troubled northwestern region of Xinjiang are tightening security in the regional capital ahead of Christmas, with new restrictions in force in mosques and among the mostly Muslim Uyghur ethnic group.
"Police in Urumqi having been carrying out a campaign of checks and searches in the run-up to Christmas and New Year," Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the Munich-based World Uyghur Congress (WUC), told RFA on Thursday.
"China has once more raised its security threat alert levels, and tighter surveillance is once more in place," he said.
He said that fresh volunteers have been drafted across Urumqi's suburbs to "maintain stability," adding to those already in place.
"There are checkpoints between every small town and village, and they have increased the number of police manning them."
"They are stepping up checks and searches on all major highways, national and regional, especially targeting Uyghurs," Raxit said.
"There is [also] increased surveillance in mosques, with an increase in the number of surveillance personnel based inside the mosques," he said.
"There are armed police carrying guns patrolling outside the mosques as well," he added.
Local residents confirmed the WUC's report, adding that security measures have once more been stepped up in busy areas like train and bus stations, shopping streets, and malls.
"There is a police sentry box at every station and stop on public transportation, with volunteer soldiers carrying out checks," one Urumqi resident, who asked not to be named, told RFA.
"Anyone carrying fluids--including cooking oil, milk, and bottled water--isn't allowed on the bus or train," he said.
"There's a busy street in Urumqi called Xiaoximen, and even public buses have to pass through a security checkpoint to get through there," the resident said.
He said he doesn't believe such controls will be effective at preventing terror attacks, however.
"If you stop them getting on at one stop, they'll just get on at another. It's like moving water with a sieve."
Residents of Urumqi have long since become used to seeing China's People's Armed Police patrolling busy public areas, including movie theaters, government offices, and shopping districts.
But while armored personnel carriers are still visible on the city's streets, they generally don't patrol them, the Urumqi resident said, adding that volunteers in red armbands often sit around at public transportation stops playing on their smartphones rather than carrying out checks.
"It's [usually] just for the look of the thing," he said.
But a second Urumqi resident surnamed Zhang said security has clearly stepped up in the wake of a stabbing attack on Monday that left three people injured at a bus stop.
"Things have been much tighter in the past few days because of what happened," Zhang said. "They have built sentry huts at all the bus stops, with two people stationed there 24-7."
He said that new rules are now in force requiring anyone born in Xinjiang to carry an ID card showing their personal details and ethnicity if they wish to travel within the region.
"There is no way to find a job or rent an apartment without this card," Zhang said, adding that anyone who leaves their hometown in the region must register with the authorities in their new location within three hours of arriving, even if they are staying in a guesthouse, or risk a fine.
The Xinjiang region, which is home to millions of Turkic-speaking Uyghurs, has seen an upsurge in violence that has left hundreds dead since 2012.
But rights groups accuse the Chinese authorities of heavy-handed rule in Xinjiang, including violent police raids on Uyghur households, restrictions on Islamic practices, and curbs on the culture and language of the Uyghur people.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Sydney - Australia's iconic Sydney Opera House and Harbour Bridge went dark on Saturday night, as the Earth Hour campaign to switch off lights to call for action on climate change began rolling out across the planet, organisers said.
Millions of people from 178 countries and territories are expected to take part in WWF's Earth Hour this year, with monuments and buildings such as the Eiffel Tower, Taipei 101 and the Empire State Building plunging into darkness for 60 minutes from 20:30 local time.
In Sydney, where the Earth Hour idea originated in 2007, many harbour-side buildings fell dark as the city switched off for the tenth year in a row.
"We just saw the Sydney Harbour Bridge switch its lights off... and buildings around as well," Earth Hour's Australia manager Sam Webb told AFP from The Rocks area.
Earth Hour's global executive director Siddarth Das said organisers were excited about how much the movement had grown since it began in Sydney in 2007.
"From one city it has now grown to over 178 countries and territories and over 7 000 cities so we couldn't be happier about how millions of people across the world are coming together for climate action," he told AFP via telephone from Singapore ahead of the lights out.
Das said momentum towards climate action was building in the wake of the global climate talks in Paris last year.
The so-called Paris Agreement sets the goal of limiting global warming to "well below" 2deg;C over pre-industrial levels, with a more ambitious target of 1.5deg;C if possible.
Das said people were experiencing the impact of climate change more now than when Earth Hour began, adding that "climate change has now become a more personal topic".
"Noone is denying the fact that the world is at a climate crossroads, but while we are seeing more and more impacts of climate change we are also witnessing a completely new momentum in climate action that is transcending borders and generations," he said.
"I feel that there's a renewed vigour among individuals and governments to come together for strong climate action and to fight climate change."
Das said Earth Hour organisers did not collect global statistics on the energy conserved during the 60-minute blackout and that the event has always had symbolic intent, saying it was more a moment of global solidarity about a global problem.
Singapore / Tokyo, Mar.21 (ANI): Subway is the most important transport system in Singapore with ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) The government on Monday approved 15 FDI proposals worth Rs.7,261.60 ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Following his maiden win in the Indian Open last weekend, ...
<br>Food Standards Australia and New Zealand has issued an alert that selected batches of Spring ...
<br>The equity and debt crowdfunding?platform says it will connect start-ups in Southeast Asia and China ...
Get the latest Singapore Star headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Singapore Star - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved