2014-10~12
http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/889768.shtml

Blame Washington for spread of Islamic extremism to Central Asia - Global Times
Terrorist groups like Al Qaeda and the Islamic State (IS) want Uyghur help to create a pan-Islamic "caliphate." This strategic objective on the part of Muslim terrorist organizations has wide-ranging implications.There is nothing new about Muslim extremists plotting to create a vast caliphate extending from the Middle East into Central Asia. In modern times, an extensive pan-Islamic political movement was created by Jamal ad-Din al-Afghani. The movement was transnational, did not recognize state boundaries, and focused on traditionally Islamic zones.Although an ethnic Persian, al-Afghani claimed to be an Afghan Sunni. Scholars in recent years have shown how he was used by several Western intelligence services and secret organizations to foment insurrection and instability in the 19th century. This method continued in the 20th century and is now with us in the 21st century.During the Cold War era, the fundamentalist Islam of the Saudi Arabian Wahhabi sect was used by the West from the 1960s in its ideological struggle against Soviet communism.   The policy continued in the Afghan War era against the Soviet Union.  During this era, the West with funding by Saudi Arabia and others orchestrated the anti-Soviet jihad in Afghanistan.  Al Qaeda and many other terrorist organizations grew out of this milieu. Experts at the time warned of "blowback" from such a reckless and shortsighted strategy. It was well-known that Islamic terrorists from Uzbekistan interfaced with Al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations. In turn, analysts have said, Uyghur extremists developed relations with Uzbek and other extremist organizations.Fast forward to Al Qaeda and IS today and we find the same pan-Islamic political ideology that combines fundamentalist Islam with geopolitical objectives. Al Qaeda, IS and similar organizations make no secret about their pan-Islamic perspective and geopolitical agenda. A recent edition of an official Al Qaeda publication specifically discussed the hoped-for role of Uyghurs in bringing Xinjiang into the geographic caliphate being created today in the minds of extremists and on the ground in the Middle East. The present turmoil in the Middle East is a direct result of the Western strategy of regime change in Iraq, Libya and Syria. The destabilization and radicalization of the region is directly related to the foreign policies of the US, Britain, and France and the Western regime change strategy.For over a century, Western governments have supported radical Islamic organizations as strategic tools. But history has shown that the West cannot effectively manage such tools.   Middle Eastern allies supporting Western policies have their own agendas which are often at variance with the best laid plans of Western policymakers.  It is no wonder that US Vice President Joe Biden expressed concerns about the overt and covert support for terrorism by Turkey, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates in early October. Washington thought that it could create and control the regime change game, but instead its reckless policies have blown up in its face.  The Middle East regional situation is spinning out of control and extremist pan-Islamic forces pose a threat to Russia, Central Asian states, China, and India. Southeast Asia is not outside the boundaries of such a threat. Under present circumstances it is little wonder that some capitals express deep concerns about Western policies.Without major changes in thinking and in policy by Washington, the situation will not improve. Given the mindset of the White House, the likelihood for real and consequential change appears dim.  Until the US and the West come to their senses, others in the world will have to move forward on their own. For example, such organizations as the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, BRICS, and ASEAN must develop their own appropriate policies.As the spreading Islamic caliphate movement shows, Washington must change its ways sooner rather than later. The author is an educator and former senior professional staff member of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn