2014-10~12
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/228037603

Ilham Tohti's Students to Stand Trial 'Soon' in China's Xinjiang - China National News
Chinese authorities in the troubled northwestern region of Xinjiang are getting ready to put on trial a number of students of jailed Uyghur scholar Ilham Tohti, his wife said on Monday.
The former professor at the Central University for Nationalities in Beijing was handed a life sentence, along with deprivation of political rights and confiscation of all his assets, following his conviction of a charge of "separatism" by a court in Xinjiang on Sept. 23.
Both Tohti, 44, and his lawyers had expressed concern that seven of his students may already have been tried and sentenced in secret on similar charges.
But Tohti's wife Guzelnur told RFA she had gotten a phone call from the mother of one of the students, a graduate student named only as Parhat.
"I got a call from a parent of one of the students on Nov. 12," Guzelnur said. "They said their son's trial would be held soon, probably in [Xinjiang's regional capital] Urumqi."
Guzelnur added: "The mother of the graduate student, Parhat, called me and said they have already hired a lawyer and now they are waiting for the trial."
China has launched a year-long crackdown on "terrorism" in Xinjiang following a string of violent incidents in recent years.
But rights activists say Tohti didn't receive a fair trial and should never have stood trial in the first place for the peaceful expression of his views, which were widely seen as moderate criticisms of Beijing's repressive policies targeting Uyghurs.
Tohti's defense lawyer Liu Xiaoyuan said he is in the process of appealing the initial verdict and life sentence.
"I have handed in nine pages of additional material [for the appeal]," Liu told RFA after visiting Tohti's detention center, where his students are also believed to be held, on Monday.
"[Tohti] is aware that the appeal won't be held in court; I have already told him about that," Liu said. "He still wants the appeal to be held in court, so I told him ... to write to the court expressing this view."
"He wrote an application, calling for the appeal to be held in court and for further investigations into the facts of the case," Liu said, adding that Tohti's case should qualify for an appeal hearing in court.
He said he had recently held meetings with three court officials over the appeal.
"I hope they will change this decision, because I told them this is a major, important case," Liu said.
"What's more, a lot of the facts of the case haven't been made clear. There are holes in the evidence, especially around the question of witness reliability," he said.
Meanwhile, Guzelnur said the family remains extremely concerned about Tohti's health, as they have been prevented from taking him a set of clothes suitable to Xinjiang's winters.
She said she had recently written to her husband telling him news about the couple's two young sons.
Urumqi's temperature was listed as -1C (31F) on Monday, according to the Travel China Guide website.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
New Delhi, March 20 (IANS) Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday opened an exhibition here on how Parsi traders used gains from trade with China to lay the foundation of Mumbai as India's financial capital.
The exhibition, "Painted Encounters: Parsi Traders and the Community", traces through paintings, engravings and photographs the growth of Parsi traders who built ships for trade with Canton in the 19th century.
Parsi merchants hailing from hamlets in Gujarat and rich from the China trade commissioned Indian and European artists to paint portraits and were known patrons of these art forms.
Leading Parsi traders boosted capital accumulation and helped shape 19th century Bombay (now Mumbai) to emerge as an international financial metropolis.
The exhibition has been curated by Pheroza J. Godrej and Firoza Punthakey Mistree.
Another exhibition, "No Parsi is an Island", is a curatorial re-reading of the work of 14 Parsi artists across 150 years. It has been curated by Ranjit Hoskote and Nancy Adajania with Pheroza J. Godrej.
"The Parsi community is an integral and important part of our national history and identity," said Rajeev Lochan, director of the National Gallery of Modern Art where the exhibitions will end on May 29.
"Unfortunately, time and again, they have been regarded as 'others' by many. This exhibition is crucial in highlighting that they are as much a part of our collective past, present and future," he said.

BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
Kathmandu, Mar. 21 (ANI): Nepal has signed a host of agreement, including free trade agreement ...
Beijing, Mar. 21 (ANI): Indonesian Minister for Fisheries and Maritime Affairs, Susi Pudjiastuti, has said ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved