2014-10~12
http://www.bignewsnetwork.com/index.php/sid/228349959

China court sentences eight terror suspects to death for Xinjiang attacks
Our eNewspaper network was founded in 2002 to provide stand-alone digital news sites tailored for the most searched-for locations for news. With a traditional newspaper format, more than 100 sites were established each with a newspaper-type name to cover the highest-ranked regions, countries, cities and states. Each site operates independently providing around-the-clock local news coverage, global & business updates, RSS feeds, and news releases.
Established in 1999, each News.Net site specializes in local news, weather, international headlines, business and finance reports. The News.Net directory of sites covers every major region, country and city around the world, as well as U.S. states and industry sectors. Each independently-operated portal is networked throughout the social media spectrum and is administered by Mainstream Media EC on behalf of Big News Network.
Five others were also awarded suspended death sentences by the court in the Xinjiang capital Urumqi where explosions at train station in April and at city's crowded market in May killed 46 people, China Central Television said.
In the last less than 20 months, violent attacks linked to Xinjiang various parts of China have left about 400 people dead. The attacks have been blamed on separatists with foreign support.
Knife-wielding attackers, who were also armed with explosives, on April 30 killed one person and wounded 79 at a train station in Urumqi on the final day of a visit to the area by Chinese President Xi Jinping. Two assailants also died in the violence.
Militants on May 22 lobbed explosives and plowed two vehicles through a market in Urumqi, killing 39 people and wounding 90. Police killed four attackers on the scene.
The minority Uighur Muslims are accusing the Han Chinese-dominated government of cultural imperialism and repressive rule. They have also been complaining of economic disenfranchisement with the inflow of Han Chinese to their homeland. Beijing says it is pumping investments into the region to help it grow.
State television broadcaster China Central TV said two men were sentenced to death in the April train attack.
It quoted the defendants saying that they were instructed by a man outside China to carry out the attack. The broadcaster said the man who instructed the attack was connected to the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a group that China has designated a terrorist organization.
The broadcaster said that six people were sentenced to death on charges of terrorism, use of explosives and endangering public safety for the May 22 attack.
In a separate case, the same court jailed seven minority students of a prominent Uighur scholar for three to eight years after convicting them of separatism, rights lawyer Li Fangping said.
The Munich-based World Uyghur Congress said the sentencing was politically motivated and the accused were not given a fair trial.
"China will never seek the root causes in its extreme (ethnic) policies," Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the Congress, said in a statement. 
