2014-10~12
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/228037597

Chinese Court Upholds 'Separatism' Verdict, Life Term For Uyghur Scholar - China National News
Chinese authorities in the troubled northwestern region of Xinjiang on Friday rejected an appeal by jailed Uyghur scholar Ilham Tohti against his life sentence for "separatism."
The former professor at the Central University for Nationalities in Beijing was sentenced to life in prison, along with deprivation of political rights and confiscation of all his assets, following his conviction on a charge of "separatism" by the Urumqi Intermediate People's Court in Xinjiang on Sept. 23.
Tohti, 44, immediately voiced protest when the verdict and sentence was announced, despite arguments from his defense team that much of the evidence against him was dubious, and launched an appeal.
But the Urumqi High People's Court rejected his appeal on Friday at a behind-closed-doors reading of its judgment, despite repeated bids by Tohti's defense team to have the appeal heard in court.
"[Tohti] became very passionate and argued a number of points," his lawyer Li Fangping, who was present at the meeting, told RFA after the decision was announced.
"He said that this was an unfair judgment and that not all of the material facts of the case had been established," Li said.
Tohti has already said repeatedly that he will appeal to a higher court, if this appeal is rejected, Li said.
Tohti's older brother and his wife were allowed to attend the meeting in the police-run Urumqi No. 1 Detention center, Li added.
Initially, the authorities had ruled that no one but Tohti, his lawyers, court officials and law-enforcement officials, could attend, but the two relatives were invited at the last minute following repeated pleas by defense lawyers, he said.
Li said he had fully expected the appeal to be rejected.
"Ilham wrote 100 pages of argument to support his appeal, but the judge didn't even take it from him," he said. "He just handed out the written judgment."
"I don't think that they are sincere about a full and fair trial if they can ignore important material like that," Li added.
"There are more holes in this case than a leaky sieve."
Defense lawyer Liu Xiaoyuan, who was appearing in court elsewhere at the time of the appeal meeting, said it's now likely that Tohti will to be moved to a prison to serve his life sentence.
"The judgment has just become effective, and the rules state that he will be moved to a prison with a period of one month," Liu said.
Tohti's Beijing-based wife Guzelnur, who has been left with the care of the couple's young sons, said she is bitterly disappointed by the decision.
"I had really hoped they would cut the sentence a bit," she told RFA shortly after receiving the news.
"My mind is so confused right now, and I find it hard to think straight," she said. "I am still waiting for further news."
Tohti's conviction sparked a wave of condemnation in China and from the international community, with human rights activists saying he never received the benefit of a fair trial, and that he should never have been tried in the first place for exercising his constitutional right to free expression.
Beijing-based rights activist Hu Jia said he was very angry at the decision, although it had come as no surprise.
"Xinjiang is full of violent acts, and yet here you have a Uyghur who is advocating peaceful dialogue and mutual understanding," Hu said. "He is the conscience of the Uyghur people."
"His imprisonment under China's inhuman stability maintenance regime shows us that the [ruling] Chinese Communist Party doesn't accept peaceful dialogue," he said.
"So now, Uyghurs have nothing left but violence as a way of making their voices heard."
Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the exile World Uyghur Congress (WUC) group, said he had expected Tohti's appeal to be rejected.
"The verdict and sentence handed to him by the Chinese authorities is entirely politically motivated," Raxit said. "They are just using a legal form."
"The message from the Chinese government is that there will be no change to its repressive policies targeting Uyghurs."
The Washington, D.C.-based Uyghur American Association (UAA) asked the international community on Friday to "step up condemnation of China's persecution of Ilham Tohti and his family and publicly express its concern over the fate of his students who are awaiting trial.
"Even with the disapproval of the international community over Ilham Tohti's case still ringing in its ears, the Chinese authorities proceeded to deliver an appeal verdict that is clearly a travesty of justice and motivated by political considerations," said UAA president Alim Seytoff in a statement.
"The calls for Ilham Tohti's immediate and unconditional release need to be made bluntly to Chinese officials. Otherwise, the fate of not only Ilham Tohti and his students is perilous, but also any other Uyghur who exercises the fundamental right to freedom of speech."
The Xinjiang region, which is home to millions of Turkic-speaking Uyghurs, has seen an upsurge in violence that has left hundreds dead since 2012, and which China has blamed on terrorists and Islamist insurgents seeking to establish an independent state.
But rights groups accuse the Chinese authorities of heavy-handed rule in Xinjiang, including violent police raids on Uyghur households, restrictions on Islamic practices, and curbs on the culture and language of the Uyghur people.
Chinese president Xi Jinping announced a harsh, one-year anti-terrorism campaign in May, following a bombing in the regional capital Urumqi that killed 31 people and injured 90.
Exile Uyghur groups have repeatedly said the root causes of recent violence in Xinjiang lie with China's treatment of peaceful Uyghur dissidents.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
New Delhi, March 20 (IANS) Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday opened an exhibition here on how Parsi traders used gains from trade with China to lay the foundation of Mumbai as India's financial capital.
The exhibition, "Painted Encounters: Parsi Traders and the Community", traces through paintings, engravings and photographs the growth of Parsi traders who built ships for trade with Canton in the 19th century.
Parsi merchants hailing from hamlets in Gujarat and rich from the China trade commissioned Indian and European artists to paint portraits and were known patrons of these art forms.
Leading Parsi traders boosted capital accumulation and helped shape 19th century Bombay (now Mumbai) to emerge as an international financial metropolis.
The exhibition has been curated by Pheroza J. Godrej and Firoza Punthakey Mistree.
Another exhibition, "No Parsi is an Island", is a curatorial re-reading of the work of 14 Parsi artists across 150 years. It has been curated by Ranjit Hoskote and Nancy Adajania with Pheroza J. Godrej.
"The Parsi community is an integral and important part of our national history and identity," said Rajeev Lochan, director of the National Gallery of Modern Art where the exhibitions will end on May 29.
"Unfortunately, time and again, they have been regarded as 'others' by many. This exhibition is crucial in highlighting that they are as much a part of our collective past, present and future," he said.

BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
Kathmandu, Mar. 21 (ANI): Nepal has signed a host of agreement, including free trade agreement ...
Beijing, Mar. 21 (ANI): Indonesian Minister for Fisheries and Maritime Affairs, Susi Pudjiastuti, has said ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved