2014-10~12
http://www.newyorker.com/business/currency/facebook-compete-weibo-china

Does China Have Any Use for Facebook? - The New Yorker
Clad in his typical uniform of a T-shirt and jeans, Mark Zuckerberg, the thirty-year-old billionaire and founder of Facebook, stunned an audience at Tsinghua University, in Beijing, last Wednesday when he began speaking Chinese. It wasn’t just a token phrase or greeting, either: for half an hour, Zuckerberg answered questions from students at the university (where he had recently been named a member of the business school’s advisory board) exclusively, if not altogether intelligibly, in Mandarin.
While Zuckerberg’s language skills may endear him to a population that tends to be entertained by the sound of a foreigner speaking in Mandarin, they won’t necessarily win him converts to his social-media platform—a possibility that seems more likely these days than it once did. At Tsinghua, the moderator, who admitted to being one of Zuckerberg’s hundred and forty Facebook friends from the school (out of a student population of roughly forty-five thousand), began by covering the basics. Why did he want to learn Chinese in the first place? To communicate with his Chinese wife’s family, Zuckerberg said in reply. Which cities had he visited? Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou, and Tianjin (the last because he wanted to see the statue of the historical character in Jet Li’s Hollywood blockbuster “Fearless”). Which city was his favorite? He liked them all the same!
Judging by the stock phrases and curated humor that Zuckerberg deployed, it seemed that he had rehearsed his ambassadorial answers, perhaps at length. The applause was no less rapturous for it. Although critics in the West later offered mixed appraisals of his language skills (wobbly grammar, atrocious tones), his willingness to take what amounted to an oral exam in front of a billion people by and large impressed the Chinese. When the most consequential question of the session was posed—about Facebook’s plans for entering China—Zuckerberg got away with a large gulp of water and an impish parry: “We are already in China, aren’t we?”
Facebook is not, and hasn’t been since 2009, when riots in the ethnically fractious region of Xinjiang caused the government to ban Facebook and Twitter, which were regarded as potential abettors of the political chaos.
For a while, Facebook bided its time. In 2012, when Charlie Rose asked Zuckerberg about his company’s plans to reënter the most populous country on earth, he responded assuredly that there were “other places in the world where we can connect more people, more easily.” Two years later, with the U.S. market and that of most economically mature countries close to saturation, China is looking like a little more than just a place for a casual foothold.
But gauging a country’s market potential is very different from grasping its cultural temperament. At Tsinghua last week, Zuckerberg spoke of Facebook’s role in “helping Chinese companies increase customers overseas” (by selling ads for domestic companies looking to gain an international customer base) and his wish to “help other places in the world connect to China.” Implementing this vision will be complicated, however. For one, to get a license to operate, Facebook would likely have to agree, as Yahoo and others have, to surrender user data to the Chinese government, in the process compromising its reputation, perhaps irreparably. Should Facebook choose to proceed, it might begin a partnership with a domestic company to ease its entry. (It was rumored to have considered one with Baidu, the so-called Google of China.) A version of Facebook customized for Chinese users has also been floated as a possibility.
Outsiders have frequently pointed out the regulatory challenges for Facebook, but the company’s most important challenge will be figuring out how to compete with homegrown social-media networks like Renren, Weibo, and Tencent, which have been designed by and for Chinese users. Even if Facebook is able to surmount the Chinese government’s hurdles, will it garner interest from the six hundred million users who have comfortably settled into indigenous modes of virtual sharing and communication?
A belligerent brand of nationalism has been infecting a generation of Chinese reared on computers, and it is also present in the tech sector. Many in China remain suspicious of attempts at foreign infiltration. “We already have Tencent and Weibo. Do we really need Facebook?” asked a microblogger with the handle SiMinDa. Another, OursIsOurs, quipped, “We don’t need Facebook and Twitter because we have our own!” A university student from Shanghai recommended that Westerners adopt QQ (the instant-messaging service of Tencent, which is akin to Skype) and WeChat. “Our apps are more user-friendly, my Western friends agree. So why should we be converting to their services instead of asking them to convert to ours?”
The Great Firewall of China can be brought down by a single dictate from above; Chinese techno-nationalism may prove more enduring. As Zuckerberg told his Tsinghua audience, he needed Chinese because it’s his grandmother-in-law’s only language, and he wanted to communicate with her. But do the Chinese need Facebook to communicate with each other, or even with the rest of the world?
Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day.
Jiayang Fan is a member of The New Yorker’s editorial staff.
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (effective January 1, 2014) and Privacy Policy (effective January 1, 2014). Your California Privacy Rights The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices 