2014-10~12
http://jurist.org/paperchase/2014/12/china-to-designate-sanctioned-places-of-worship.php

JURIST - China to designate sanctioned places of worship
[JURIST] The Chinese government declared on Friday that it intends to publish a list of approved religious venues in order to "root out" illegal religious activities. The proclamation [Xinhua report] was made by director of the State Administration for Religious Affairs [official website, in Chinese] Wang Zuoan [official profile], on Xinhua [official website], China's official news source. Zuoan stated that the government will create an online database that disseminates the basic information of religious organizations and includes a certification component. The database is expected to be completed in two years, however China has already made public the critical information of over 16,000 Buddhist and Taoist temples, including addresses and names of religious venues and leaders. The government states that the impetus behind this decision is to facilitate public supervision and the prevention of illegal religious facilities in order to protect the legal rights of participating religious members.
It has been speculated that the implementation of this database is meant to discourage religious activities that might undermine governmental action. The Chinese government has a long history of conflict with the Falun Gong [official website] religious group. Earlier this month a Chinese lawyer and member of the Falun Gong was detained [JURIST report] for statements defending the group. In November a Xinjiang court sentenced [JURIST report] 22 people to prison terms for participating in religious activities deemed illegal by the government. China also has a history of seeking supervisory action. On Monday the Chinese government sought the registration [JURIST report] of foreign NGOs before the organizations were allowed to set up offices in the country.







The Failure of Illicit Asset Recovery: A Haitian Case Study
 Rogendy Toussaint St. John's University School of Law 











When Equitable Remedies Give Way to Remedies at Law (or How to Avoid a Benefits Plan's Subrogation Clause)
John Klinker Loyola University Chicago Law School 











Iran's Seizure of United States Naval Personnel and Vessels
 Barry Feinstein Netanya Academic College School of Law 











Citizenship Deprivation in France: Between Nation and the Republic
 Sandra Mantu Radboud University Nijmegen Centre for Migration Law 











How Judge Garland Can Get to the Supreme Court
 David Frakt 











Class Actions Back from the Brink: The Future of Mootness and “Pick-Offs” in Class Action Litigation Following Campbell-Ewald Co. v. Gomez
 Evan M. Meyers and Paul Geske McGuire Law PC 





Paper Chase is JURIST's real-time legal news service, powered by a team of 30 law student reporters and editors led by law professor Bernard Hibbitts at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law. As an educational service, Paper Chase is dedicated to presenting important legal news and materials rapidly, objectively and intelligibly in an accessible format.


 JURIST is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization dedicated to bringing objective legal news and reasoned expert analysis to the public. 


 E-mail inquiries, changes, news tips, URLs, corrections, etc. to JURIST@jurist.org. 


 JURIST cannot and does not provide legal advice. 
 As such, nothing on this site is intended as legal advice. If you have a legal problem, please consult an attorney.


 We wish you the best of luck with your case, but we can't help.


© Copyright JURIST Legal News and Research Services, Inc., 2013. 


© Copyright JURIST Legal News and Research Services, Inc., 2013. 


 Please note that JURIST cannot and does not provide legal advice. 


 As such, nothing on this site is intended as legal advice. If you have a legal problem, please consult an attorney.


 We wish you the best of luck with your case, but we can't help.
