2014-10~12
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/228370427

Students of Convicted Uighur Scholar Get Jail Sentences - China National News
A Chinese court has given jail terms of between three and eight years to the students of Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti, who was convicted earlier this year of separatism.
Tohti's lawyer said the seven students were found guilty of aiding "separatist activities" at a secret trial Monday in Urumqi, the capital of the far-west Xinjiang region.
Chinese authorities have not commented on the conviction of the students, six of whom belonged to the Uighur ethnic minority that complains of government persecution.
Tohti was convicted of separatism and sentenced to life in prison in September. The conviction relied partly on the testimony of his students, who helped him run the Uighur Online website.
The 45-year-old ex-economics professor is a longtime defender of Uighur rights and a fervent critic of the government. But he denies calling for independence in Xinjiang.
In recent years, the region has seen an increasing number of riots and attacks on police and civilians. Several hundred people have died in the unrest.
Beijing blames Muslim separatists that it says are being funded and inspired by overseas terrorist groups. It has launched a wide-ranging "anti-terror" campaign in Xinjiang.
Many international rights groups say the violence is being driven by Beijing's repression of Muslim religious life and preferential treatment toward the Han majority that have migrated to the area.
New Delhi, March 20 (IANS) Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday opened an exhibition here on how Parsi traders used gains from trade with China to lay the foundation of Mumbai as India's financial capital.
The exhibition, "Painted Encounters: Parsi Traders and the Community", traces through paintings, engravings and photographs the growth of Parsi traders who built ships for trade with Canton in the 19th century.
Parsi merchants hailing from hamlets in Gujarat and rich from the China trade commissioned Indian and European artists to paint portraits and were known patrons of these art forms.
Leading Parsi traders boosted capital accumulation and helped shape 19th century Bombay (now Mumbai) to emerge as an international financial metropolis.
The exhibition has been curated by Pheroza J. Godrej and Firoza Punthakey Mistree.
Another exhibition, "No Parsi is an Island", is a curatorial re-reading of the work of 14 Parsi artists across 150 years. It has been curated by Ranjit Hoskote and Nancy Adajania with Pheroza J. Godrej.
"The Parsi community is an integral and important part of our national history and identity," said Rajeev Lochan, director of the National Gallery of Modern Art where the exhibitions will end on May 29.
"Unfortunately, time and again, they have been regarded as 'others' by many. This exhibition is crucial in highlighting that they are as much a part of our collective past, present and future," he said.

BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
Kathmandu, Mar. 21 (ANI): Nepal has signed a host of agreement, including free trade agreement ...
Beijing, Mar. 21 (ANI): Indonesian Minister for Fisheries and Maritime Affairs, Susi Pudjiastuti, has said ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved