2014-10~12
http://amestrib.com/news/world-brief-nov-22-2014

World in Brief: Nov. 22, 2014 | Ames Tribune
(TNS) — Life is imitating art in Thailand, where muzzled opponents of the coup leaders who suspended democracy six months ago have embraced the three-finger salute of defiance from the “Hunger Games” movie series.
Three more students who used the cinematic gesture of rebellion against tyranny were arrested at a Bangkok cinema’s Thursday night showing of “The Hunger Games: Mockingjay — Part 1,” the latest film based on the dystopian trilogy by author Suzanne Collins.
(TNS) — Vice President Joe Biden told the Kremlin during a visit Friday to Ukraine that the United States will never recognize Russia’s annexation of Crimea and warned Moscow that it faces greater isolation if it continues its “provocative action.”
Biden was in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, on the first anniversary of the “Maidan” revolution that brought hundreds of thousands of protesters into the streets for three months before President Viktor Yanukovich was driven from office on Feb. 21.
(TNS) — Chinese courts on Friday took up two cases followed closely by international human rights watchdogs, with judges upholding a life sentence for an outspoken scholar convicted of separatism and a trial beginning for a veteran journalist charged with leaking state secrets.
Ilham Tohti, an economics professor and outspoken advocate for minority Uighurs, failed in his bid to overturn a life sentence handed to him in late September.
Meanwhile, Gao Yu, a dissident journalist known for supporting Chinese students’ protests in Tiananmen Square in 1989, was put on trial in Beijing.
VIENNA (TNS) — Top Western diplomats converged on the Austrian capital Friday to try to negotiate a nuclear deal with Iran before the deadline Monday, but they appeared to remain far apart as the day ended.
Secretary of State John F. Kerry met in Vienna with Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond, French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius and European Union foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton in a round robin of meetings at the stately Palais Coburg hotel.
The day’s dramatic high point came when Iranian officials said Zarif would return to Tehran to present leaders there with the latest proposal from the six world powers that have been seeking a deal.
The trip seemed to set the stage for a conclusion to the year’s search for a nuclear agreement. But it was abruptly canceled in midafternoon, and Iranian officials said Zarif would probably stay through the weekend to continue discussions.
Comments posted below are from readers. In no way do they represent the view of Stephens Media LLC or this newspaper. This is a public forum.
Comments may be monitored for inappropriate content but the newspaper is under no obligation to do so.  Comment posters are solely responsible under the Communications Decency Act for comments posted on this Web site. Stephens Media LLC is not liable for messages from third parties.
IP and email addresses of persons who post are not treated as confidential records and will be disclosed in response to valid legal process. 
If you believe that a commenter has not followed these guidelines, please click the FLAG icon below the comment.