2014-10~12
http://www.ecns.cn/2014/10-08/137266.shtml

Vice Premier urges Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps to act as stabilizer - Headlines, features, photo and videos from ecns.cn|china|news|chinanews|ecns|cns
Chinese Vice Premier Liu Yandong urged the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps (XPCC) to further act as a stabilizer in the country's northwestern autonomous region.
Liu made the remarks when addressing the ceremony for the 60th founding anniversary of the XPCC on Tuesday. She added that in the past six decades the Corps made important contributions to ethnic unity, stability, development in Xinjiang as well as the state security and border defence.
Led by Liu, a delegation composed of 20 senior officials of the Communist Party of China (CPC), the central government and the army, visited the Corps.
As an important component of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, the XPCC is a special social organization that handles its own administrative and judicial affairs within the reclamation areas under its administration, in accordance with the laws and regulations of the state and the region. It assumes the responsibilities of cultivating and guarding the border areas.
Starting from scratch 60 years ago, the XPCC has reclaimed ecological oases from the desolate Gobi desert, initiated Xinjiang's modernization, built large-scale agriculture and industrial and mining enterprises, and established new cities and towns in cooperation with local people of all ethnic groups.
Liu added that the Corps should further act as a stabilizer in Xinjiang, make more contributions to ethnic unity, and make development fruits benefit more people.
Zhang Chunxian, member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and party chief of Xinjiang, said at the ceremony that the Corps' strength should be enhanced with cooperation and integration with the local institutions.
Zhang also urged the Corps to stand ready for the calls of the Party and the state to safeguard national security and interests.
Copyright ©1999-2015 Chinanews.com. All rights reserved.
Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.