2014-10~12
http://www.worldbulletin.net/news/148382/china-identifies-dozens-of-uighurs-in-thailand

China identifies "dozens" of Uighurs in Thailand | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
Chinese officials in Thailand have identified "dozens" of Uighurs from the Chinese region of Xinjiang (East Turkestan) who were rescued by Thai police from a human-smuggling camp and those confirmed from China will be sent home, a Chinese newspaper said on Friday.
Thai police previously told Reuters that the roughly 200 people rescued in March were believed to be Uighurs, a Muslim people from the western Chinese region who speak a Turkic language, many of whom chafe at government restrictions on their culture and religion.
The Global Times, a tabloid published by the Chinese Communist Party's People's Daily, said China's consulate in the southern Thai city of Songkhla had identified some of the men and discovered "dozens" of them were Uighur.
But it did not know the nationality of women and children who are also with the group, the newspaper said.
"Once we confirm that they are Chinese, they would be sent back to China," a Chinese diplomat surnamed Qin told the newspaper.
In 2009, 20 Uighurs were deported from Cambodia to China despite the objections of the United Nations and human rights groups, who said they faced lengthy jail terms upon their return.
New York-based Human Rights Watch also criticized Malaysia for deporting six Uighurs to China last December.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei, however, told a daily news briefing in Beijing that he could not confirm that any of the people in southern Thailand were Uighur.
"China has maintained communication with the Thai side. Our attitude is that we are opposed to illegal immigration," Hong said.
Hundreds of people have been killed in unrest in Xinjiang in the past two years, prompting a crackdown by Chinese authorities.
Small numbers of Uighur people have begun trickling out of China to Southeast Asia. They are believed to go overland into Laos or Myanmar, and then on to Thailand and elsewhere.
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
China arrests 10 Turks for helping Uighur Muslims to flee
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe
Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

UN sees need for space travel rules within 5 years

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
