2014-10~12
http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/news/kyodo-news-international/141121/chinese-court-upholds-life-sentence-uyghur-scholar

Chinese court upholds life sentence for Uyghur scholar | GlobalPost
A Chinese appeals court upheld Friday a sentence of life imprisonment for ethnic Uyghur scholar Ilham Tohti, who was convicted of separatism in September, according to his lawyer.
"The sentence is unjust. The court did not ascertain the facts. It has trampled on the law," Liu Xiaoyan said in a message posted to his Twitter account.
The appeals court made its decision based on a review of documents from the original trial, without hearing arguments by Tohti's attorney, according to a human rights advocate familiar with the proceedings.
Many questioned the fairness of the original trial, which was closed to the public, and those misgivings reemerged following Friday's announcement.
Responding to questions about the court's procedures during a regular press briefing, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei dismissed the concern, stating, "China's judicial organs deal with such cases in accordance with fact and laws."
Tohti was convicted in late September following a closed door trial in which he was accused of advocating independence for Xinjiang, the far western region called home by China's predominantly Muslim Uyghur minority group, and preaching violent resistance against the Chinese government.
During his trial, however, he insisted he merely supports autonomy for Xinjiang and hopes it could stay in China in the form of a federation, state-run media reported, citing detailed court records.
His sentence drew outrage from human rights organizations and Western governments.
The European Union condemned it as "completely unjustified," while U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry called it deeply disturbing and said it appeared to be "retribution" for Tohti's "peaceful efforts to promote human rights for China's Uyghur citizens."
Tohti's sentence, which included seizure of his family's assets, was the toughest punishment handed down to a Chinese activist in recent years.
Its severity was especially surprising because Tohti, an economics professor who lived in Beijing and advocated Uyghur-language education and a stronger ethnic identity, was considered by many to be a pro-China moderate.
The Chinese government has become increasingly sensitive to what it views as "separatist" activities in Xinjiang.
Long-standing ethnic tensions between Uyghurs and China's Han majority have grown increasingly fraught since a series of deadly riots swept Xinjiang in the summer of 2009.
Since, the country has seen a series of violent attacks by Uyghurs, including bombings and mass stabbing incidents.
The government attributes the violence to the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which is said to seek an independent nation for the Uyghur people.
In response to the attacks, the Chinese government has cracked down in Xinjiang, significantly increasing the region's police presence and seeking to discourage, sometimes forcefully, displays of Muslim identity such as beards and headscarves.