2014-10~12
http://www.salon.com/2014/10/28/afghan_president_seeks_chinese_investment/

Afghan president seeks Chinese investment - Salon.com
BEIJING (AP) — Afghanistan’s new president began a visit to Beijing on Tuesday seeking Chinese help in rebuilding his country and promoting regional stability.
Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai received pledges of hundreds of millions of dollars in aid in a meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping. He also plans to urge potential investors to help bankroll Afghanistan’s development, especially its mining industry.
A Chinese state company has already signed a $3 billion deal to develop a 5 million-ton copper deposit at Mes Aynak, near Kabul, but pulled its workers out last year after they came under Taliban fire.
The trip is Ghani Ahmadzai’s first state visit abroad since taking office last month, underscoring his desire for closer ties with Afghanistan’s massive neighbor. He is already highly familiar with China from his days as a World Bank official working in the country.
In opening remarks, Xi assured Ghani Ahmadzai of China’s friendship and support, saying he is willing to work toward “a new era of cooperation in China-Afghanistan relations and take development to a new depth and breadth.”
Ghani Ahmadzai told Xi that Afghanistan’s development goals are closely aligned with China’s promotion of regional cross-border economic development.
“We feel that our vision of Afghanistan as a hub of regional trade, transit and peace would be an illustration of your vision of East Asia and South Asia cooperation,” Ghani Ahmadzai said.
To facilitate closer ties, Afghanistan would like to a see a transport link opened along the 76-kilometer (47-mile) border between the Wakhan Corridor and China’s far western Xinjiang region, Ghani Ahmadzai said.
The presidents also presided over the signing of four agreements, including ones on economic and technical cooperation.
China pledged to provide 2 billion yuan ($330 million) in grants to Afghanistan through 2017 and provide professional training for 3,000 Afghans over the next five years, Kong Xuanyou, director general of the Chinese Foreign Ministry’s Asia department, said after the signing ceremony.
Other assistance includes humanitarian materials worth 30 million yuan ($5 million) and the extension of 500 government scholarships to Afghans over the next five years, Kong said.
China, which maintained contacts with the former Taliban government in the 1990s, is also willing to play a constructive role in promoting reconciliation between all parties in Afghanistan, Kong said.
China’s importance to Afghanistan is expected to expand further after U.S. and allied combat troops leave by the end of the year, illustrating Kabul’s desire to end its dependency on the West. For its part, China is concerned about instability spilling over into Xinjiang, where radicals among the native Uighur population have launched a series of attacks in recent months.
Afghanistan hopes Chinese investment will help make mining a cornerstone of its economy. Although it has an estimated $3 trillion worth of natural resources, including copper, iron ore, silver, gold, coal, gems and minor metals such as chromite, little has been exploited because of warfare and a lack of infrastructure. China is already active in oil production in the north of Afghanistan.
On Friday, Ghani Ahmadzai is to attend this year’s Istanbul Ministerial Process, a regional dialogue on security, economic and political cooperation hosted by China for the first time.
The forum brings together Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, China, India, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, the United Arab Emirates and Uzbekistan. The U.S., Britain, other Western countries and international organizations attend as observers.
Named for the 15th-century Dutch artist known for vivid depictions of life in Hell, Detective Hieronymus “Harry” Bosch goes head to head with LA’s worst criminals. Actor Titus Welliver was handpicked by author and executive producer Michael Connelly to take Bosch from the pages to the screen.
Michael Connelly personally selected every LA location featured in the Bosch opening sequence. After 20 years with this character, Connelly wanted to be sure the show reflected the authenticity that longtime fans have appreciated over the years.
Actor Titus Welliver is the real deal. Having once considered becoming an NYC police officer, he was immediately drawn to this role. Much like Connelly’s own commitment to the character, Welliver is very passionate about remaining true to the source material.
In the series, Harry Bosch lent his expertise as a cop to Hollywood for the blockbuster movie The Black Echo, based on his own life story. The poster for the film hangs proudly in his living room, high above the Hollywood Hills.
Inspired by Michael Connelly’s books City of Bones, Echo Park, and The Concrete Blonde, the first season of Bosch introduced Amazon audiences to complex character Harry Bosch. Season 2, which features storylines from Trunk Music, The Drop and The Last Coyote premieres March 11th on Amazon Prime Video.
As an LA crime reporter early in his career, Michael Connelly worked side by side with the LAPD. With three LA homicide detectives on staff as consultants, Bosch lives up to its promise of authenticity.
Harry Bosch lives in the hills just above the Cahuenga Pass, the perfect spot to look out over the city he protects. Michael Connelly found this very spot in 1989, where he often returns to contemplate the city and find inspiration. Connelly also had his own home above Hollywood many years ago – in the High Tower apartments, where noir character Philip Marlowe lived in Robert Altman’s The Long Goodbye.
To ensure they would be able to realistically capture a cop’s perspective, the Bosch cast participated in special training with the LAPD, where they were faced with hard choices in real-life scenarios.
Michael Connelly’s inspiration for the gritty realness of Harry Bosch was often found during real testimonies while sitting in court as a reporter for the LA Times, including this defining exchange from Season 1, “How many people have you killed?” “I don’t know.”
Michael Connelly, an avid fan himself, wrote in a broadcast of an LA Dodgers game for the opening scenes of Season 1.
Stream Season 2 of the Amazon Original Series Bosch with Prime.
Bob Dylan's 'Blonde on Blonde' Album to Be Feted at Nashville Event
Sturgill Simpson on Staying Country, Covering Nirvana on New Album
Watch Sia Re-Team With 'Elastic Heart' Dancer for 'Cheap Thrills' Vid
14 eerie photos show how this sea became a desert, and how it's finally being revived.
4 weird facts about the post office, and 1 that could help save the economy.
A new PSA on Down syndrome is being both praised and criticized by advocates.
The fight for equality didn't end with gay marriage. 5 acts of bravery you should know.
A company found the best way to get the most from your wedding bouquet.