2014-10~12
http://www.afghanistansun.com/index.php/sid/226912131

Afghan President's First Trip Abroad Will Be to China - Afghanistan Sun
BEIJING - Afghan President Ashraf Ghani will travel to China this month, China's Foreign Ministry said on Wednesday, marking what will be the leader's first foreign trip since being sworn in in September after a protracted election stalemate.
China had hoped to host an international conference on Afghan's stability last summer, but was forced to shelve the idea as the Afghan election standoff between Ghani and now chief executive Abdullah Abdullah delayed the inauguration of a new president.
China, which is connected to Afghanistan by a narrow, almost impassable mountain corridor, has been quietly preparing for more responsibility in Afghanistan after the bulk of U.S.-led troops pull out.
China says it does not seek to fill a void left by the withdrawal of Western troops but has promised to play a "huge" commercial role in helping rebuild the country.
A major worry for leaders in Beijing is that ethnic Uighur separatist militants from China's western Xinjiang region will take advantage if Afghanistan again descends into chaos.
Chinese authorities say Uighur fighters are based in militant strongholds in ungoverned stretches of the Afghan-Pakistani border.
They say Islamist militants, some who have received support from beyond China's borders, were behind a spate of attacks in Xinjiang and across China, which have left hundreds dead over the past two years.
However, experts dispute the influence of foreign militant groups within China, and argue that economic marginalization of Muslim Uighurs, who call Xinjiang home, is one of the main causes of ethnic violence there.
Ghani will travel to China from Oct. 28-31, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said during a regular press briefing.
"This visit is President Ghani's first foreign trip since taking office, and is the first high-level visit between China and Afghanistan since the formation of the new government. China attaches great importance to this," Hua said.
"China will, as in the past, provide all assistance within its power to aid Afghanistan's peaceful rebuilding," Hua said.
The Taliban and their militant allies have stepped up attacks ahead of the withdrawal of most foreign troops from Afghanistan at the end of the year, seeking to weaken the new government that will take over most of the fight.
Mumbai, March 20 (IANS) Despite their 37-run win over Afghanistan in a World Twenty20 encounter, South Africa skipper Faf du Plessis on Sunday stressed that his team needs to work and improve their bowling specially when it comes to powerplay.
Batting first, the Proteas posted 209/5 in 20 overs, which included crucial knocks from De Villiers (64 off 29), Quinton de Kock (45) and Faf du Plessis (41).
In reply, despite opener Mohammad Shahzad's blistering 19-ball 44 at the start, Afghanistan lost wickets at regular intervals and were bundled out for 172 in 20 overs.
"We need to be better and improve our bowling. Our skill level is letting us down. It is a big challenge for the bowlers in the first six overs. Those are the areas we need to improve. Last match against England bowlers went for plenty in the first six this match also went for runs," Du Plessis said at the post-match press conference.
For South Africa, Chris Morris (4/27), Imran Tahir (2/24), Kyle Abbott (2/36) and Kagiso Rabada (2/37) were the pick of the bowlers.
Praising Morris for his four-wicket haul, the skipper said: "It was not an easy wicket to bowl on. Today Morris showed good discipline and good intensity. There is a lot of learning for me to see how Chris bowled today. It is important for all the bowlers to get back the confidence. Great result for Morris."
Following the team's loss to England in their opening match, speedster Dale Steyn was dropped from the side against Afghanistan.
Asked about the reason behind the inclusion of bowling all-rounder David Weise in place of Steyn, the 31-year-old said: "The thinking behind the wicket is that there is not much swing in the wicket in the first six overs. And as Dale is quite a skiddy bowler, the wicket like this, the thinking was that the wicket won't suit him that much."
"It is not a Mumbai wicket where there is pace and bounce, it just skids through. We wanted to bring a guy like David Weise who can bowl a bit of variation and can also bat at seven or eight when required," du Plessis concluded.

Mumbai, Mar.20 (ANI): South Africa's swashbuckling batsman AB de Villiers smashed a quick-fire half-century before ...
Cape Town - South Africa may have to significantly restructure their team if JP Duminy ...
Cape Town - The Proteas have beaten Afghanistan by 37 runs in a ICC World ...
Cape Town - Lead by a lightning fast 64 by AB de Villiers, the Proteas ...
Miami - In the last comprehensive review of prisoners held at Guantanamo Bay, the US ...
Get the latest Afghanistan Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Afghanistan Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved