2014-10~12
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-11-21/uighur-scholar-loses-appeal-against-life-sentence/5910860

Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti loses appeal against life sentence for advocating Xinjiang separatism - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)
A prominent Uighur scholar and human rights activist has lost his appeal against a life sentence imposed for advocating independence for his home province of Xinjiang.
Ilham Tohti is a former university lecturer accused of inciting racial hatred between Han Chinese and Uighurs in Xinjiang.
The judge has upheld the life sentence imposed on Tohti, who was charged with separatism.
The hearing was held inside the detention centre in the restive north-western region of Xinjiang, where Tohti has been held since he was charged, which his lawyers say violated normal judicial procedure.
They were not surprised by the court's decision but Tohti's brother insisted Chinese authorities had not carried out a proper investigation.
The former university lecturer is accused of using his classes and his website to incite racial hatred between the majority Han Chinese and Uighur Muslims, but Tohti's supporters believe he is a victim of political oppression and say he is a moderate critic.
He was sentenced in September after being held in detention for 10 months. His lawyer said he had been kept in leg irons for close to two months.
His conviction is one of the harshest to be handed down in China and comes amid a nationwide crackdown on terrorism.
Mr Li said Tohti would ask the court to allow him to serve his sentence in Beijing, where his wife and children live.
President Xi Jinping's government has convicted and detained hundreds of people in what rights groups say is the most severe assault on human rights in China since the 1989 crackdown on a pro-democracy movement in and around Beijing's Tiananmen Square.
Meanwhile, prominent Chinese journalist Gao Yu is going on trial accused of leaking state secrets to foreign news organisations.
The 70-year-old, who is well known for her critical articles of government leaders, faces a possible life sentence if found guilty.
Gao was detained in early May and accused of having leaked an internal Chinese Communist Party document "calling for greater censorship of liberal and reformist ideas", according to New York-based Human Rights Watch.
Gao's lawyers declined to confirm this, saying the evidence had been classified as state secrets.
In May, state television aired images of her making a confession.
Gao's lawyer, Mo Shaoping, told Reuters before the trial that Gao was forced into making the confession because authorities had threatened her son with arrest.
Mr Mo said the judge would deliver the verdict at a later date.

 First posted 
 
 November 21, 2014 22:16:04
 

For information on how you can help, visit abc.net.au/appeals or call 1800 811 700.
If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC.
The PM's manoeuvres over the budget, double dissolution and industrial relations legislation have a familiar Turnbullian feel.
Unless you make plans and talk to loved ones you're unlikely to have any say in how and where you die.
In a fast-changing competition, which AFL teams can improve enough to break into this year's top eight?
From the thin blue line on the pregnancy test to the flat line on the ECG — every day Australia's healthcare system pays witness to the highs and heartbreaking lows of human life.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.


AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)
