2014-10~12
http://www.singaporestar.com/index.php/sid/228053493

China Rebukes Turkey Over Uighur Refugees - Singapore Star
China on Friday lashed out at Turkey for offering shelter to roughly 200 Uighurs from the western Chinese region of Xinjiang. They were rescued from a human-smuggling camp in Thailand.
Thai police found the group in March and Chinese officials identified "dozens" of them as Uighurs, a Muslim people from Xinjiang who speak a Turkic language. Many Uighurs chafe at government curbs on their culture and religion.
Turkey's state-run Anadolu news agency on Wednesday reported a request by Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu for Thailand to send the Uighurs there, a move that angered China, which views their move to Thailand as "illegal immigration."
Asked for a response on Turkey's offer, China's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said the case was a matter for China and Thailand and "the relevant country" should stop interfering.
"We urge the relevant country to immediately stop meddling in placement work for the relevant case, be cautious with words and actions and not send out mistaken signals that connive in, and even support, illegal immigration activities," Hua said in a faxed statement to Reuters.
"Illegal immigration activities disrupt the normal orderly flow of people internationally, harm the interests of the international community, and can harm security of the relevant countries and regions," Hua added.
Small numbers of Uighurs trickling out of China to Southeast Asia are believed to go overland into Laos or Myanmar, before going to Thailand and elsewhere.
Turkey is home to thousands of Uighurs who have fled Xinjiang since the Chinese Communists took over the region in 1949. It has projected itself as a stable Muslim democracy, a key player at a time of turmoil and unrest in the Middle East.
"I brought the issue to the notice of the Thai foreign minister in New York and the Chinese foreign minister in Beijing as well, and told them Turkey wants to shelter those Uighurs," Anadolu cited Foreign Minister Cavusoglu as saying.
Thai immigration officials declined to comment and the Thai foreign ministry did not respond immediately to a Reuters query.
In the past two years, hundreds of people have been killed in unrest in Xinjiang, prompting a crackdown by authorities. Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say China's repressive policies have provoked the violence, but Beijing denies this.
China blames attacks in Xinjiang and elsewhere on Islamist militants from the region, saying those with ties to overseas groups want to set up a separate state called East Turkistan.
Sydney - Australia's iconic Sydney Opera House and Harbour Bridge went dark on Saturday night, as the Earth Hour campaign to switch off lights to call for action on climate change began rolling out across the planet, organisers said.
Millions of people from 178 countries and territories are expected to take part in WWF's Earth Hour this year, with monuments and buildings such as the Eiffel Tower, Taipei 101 and the Empire State Building plunging into darkness for 60 minutes from 20:30 local time.
In Sydney, where the Earth Hour idea originated in 2007, many harbour-side buildings fell dark as the city switched off for the tenth year in a row.
"We just saw the Sydney Harbour Bridge switch its lights off... and buildings around as well," Earth Hour's Australia manager Sam Webb told AFP from The Rocks area.
Earth Hour's global executive director Siddarth Das said organisers were excited about how much the movement had grown since it began in Sydney in 2007.
"From one city it has now grown to over 178 countries and territories and over 7 000 cities so we couldn't be happier about how millions of people across the world are coming together for climate action," he told AFP via telephone from Singapore ahead of the lights out.
Das said momentum towards climate action was building in the wake of the global climate talks in Paris last year.
The so-called Paris Agreement sets the goal of limiting global warming to "well below" 2deg;C over pre-industrial levels, with a more ambitious target of 1.5deg;C if possible.
Das said people were experiencing the impact of climate change more now than when Earth Hour began, adding that "climate change has now become a more personal topic".
"Noone is denying the fact that the world is at a climate crossroads, but while we are seeing more and more impacts of climate change we are also witnessing a completely new momentum in climate action that is transcending borders and generations," he said.
"I feel that there's a renewed vigour among individuals and governments to come together for strong climate action and to fight climate change."
Das said Earth Hour organisers did not collect global statistics on the energy conserved during the 60-minute blackout and that the event has always had symbolic intent, saying it was more a moment of global solidarity about a global problem.
Singapore / Tokyo, Mar.21 (ANI): Subway is the most important transport system in Singapore with ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) The government on Monday approved 15 FDI proposals worth Rs.7,261.60 ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Following his maiden win in the Indian Open last weekend, ...
<br>Food Standards Australia and New Zealand has issued an alert that selected batches of Spring ...
<br>The equity and debt crowdfunding?platform says it will connect start-ups in Southeast Asia and China ...
Get the latest Singapore Star headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Singapore Star - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved