2014-10~12
http://finance.townhall.com/columnists/nightwatch/2014/10/22/region-rallies-around-syrian-kurds-as-isis-tries-for-kobani-n1908306

Region Rallies Around Syrian Kurds as ISIS Tries for Kobani - Night Watch - Townhall Finance Conservative Columnists and Financial Commentary - Page 1
China: Chinese media reported on 18 October a terrorist incident in Xinjiang that occurred on the 12th. On that date, four Uighur militants attacked a farmer's market in Kashgar prefecture, Bachu County, using knives and explosives. They killed at least 22 Han Chinese. Police killed all four Uighurs. The police said the Uighurs deliberately executed their attack at a time when no Uighurs were in the market.
Comment: The last significant attack was about a month ago, when Uighur militants detonated three explosions that killed at least 50 people. China delayed reporting the incident then, as now, apparently to minimize loss of confidence in law enforcement and loss of face for the government.
The attack occurred one day before a Chinese court in Kashgar sentenced 12 Uighurs to death for attacks that killed 37 people in July. The timing suggests an act of solidarity with those about to be sentenced as well as defiance of Chinese law.
The periodicity of Uighur attacks indicates that they mainly are a threat to local law and order. Nevertheless, repeated government crackdowns have not suppressed them.
US- SyrianKurds: USAF C-130 transport aircraft airdropped supplies from Iraqi Kurdistan for the fighters at Kobani for the first time.
Comment: The siege of Kobani is forcing actors to cooperate who would otherwise be enemies. It also is forcing the enemies of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) to ignore established state boundaries in the interest of blocking ISIL.
In this instance the US aircraft delivered supplies and small arms supposedly provided by the Iraqi Kurds to the Syrian Kurds who support the Kurdish communists. The supplies came from Iraq, but were not provided by the Baghdad government.
It would seem to be a small step to announce that the US is supplying the Syrian Kurds, rather than engage in a transparent subterfuge about transporting Iraqi Kurdish supplies, at least some of which originated in the US in the first place.
Turkey-Syrian Kurds: The Turkish government announced that it would facilitate the movement of Kurdish fighters from Turkey to Kobani. The announcement contained no details as to timing and scope.
Get the best of Townhall Finance Daily delivered straight to your inbox

 TownhallFinance.com makes available to the viewer a variety of independent sources that offer trading and investment advice and related services and products.
 Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service
 is provided to you
