2014-10~12
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/227851961

Chinese court upholds life sentence against Uyghur activist - China National News
A court in western China has upheld the conviction and life sentence handed down against Uyghur activist Ilham Tohti, who appealed the sentence when it was first passed in September, one of his attorneys Li Fangping, told Efe news agency Friday.
Tohti was arrested in January on charges of leading an eight-member group of separatists, after the dispute between the Muslim ethnic minority Uyghur people and the Communist regime in Beijing took a violent turn.
The 46-year-old intellectual and professor at Beijing's Minzu University was one of the few activists who spoke out against the situation of the Uyghurs and criticised the way they are being treated by Chinese authorities.
Tohti was accused of using his popular web page "UyghurOnline" to spread rumours and instigate separatism, as well as demanding independence of Xinjiang, the autonomous region of northwestern China where most Uyghur and several other non-Chinese minorities live.
The sentence against Tohti was strongly criticised by the international community, including the European Union and the US government.
The professor has been a voice of moderation in favour of an understanding between Uyghurs and the Han Chinese who account for the vast majority of China's 1.35 billion people.
Tohti also criticized the Beijing government's policies that have resulted in the forced migration of Uyghurs to other parts of the country.
Dozens of people have been killed this year in terrorist attacks, which Beijing attributes to terrorist and pro-independence groups operating in Xinjiang.
New Delhi, March 20 (IANS) Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday opened an exhibition here on how Parsi traders used gains from trade with China to lay the foundation of Mumbai as India's financial capital.
The exhibition, "Painted Encounters: Parsi Traders and the Community", traces through paintings, engravings and photographs the growth of Parsi traders who built ships for trade with Canton in the 19th century.
Parsi merchants hailing from hamlets in Gujarat and rich from the China trade commissioned Indian and European artists to paint portraits and were known patrons of these art forms.
Leading Parsi traders boosted capital accumulation and helped shape 19th century Bombay (now Mumbai) to emerge as an international financial metropolis.
The exhibition has been curated by Pheroza J. Godrej and Firoza Punthakey Mistree.
Another exhibition, "No Parsi is an Island", is a curatorial re-reading of the work of 14 Parsi artists across 150 years. It has been curated by Ranjit Hoskote and Nancy Adajania with Pheroza J. Godrej.
"The Parsi community is an integral and important part of our national history and identity," said Rajeev Lochan, director of the National Gallery of Modern Art where the exhibitions will end on May 29.
"Unfortunately, time and again, they have been regarded as 'others' by many. This exhibition is crucial in highlighting that they are as much a part of our collective past, present and future," he said.

BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
Kathmandu, Mar. 21 (ANI): Nepal has signed a host of agreement, including free trade agreement ...
Beijing, Mar. 21 (ANI): Indonesian Minister for Fisheries and Maritime Affairs, Susi Pudjiastuti, has said ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved