2014-10~12
http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/chinese-president-pm-condemn-pak-school-attack-vow-support-114121700613_1.html

Chinese President, PM condemn Pak school attack, vow support | Business Standard News


 Press Trust of India  | 
 Beijing  

December 17, 2014 Last Updated at 17:35 IST


 Condemning the terrorist attack on a Pakistani school that killed over 140 people, mostly children, Chinese President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang today expressed their support to the country in fighting terrorism. In a message to Pakistan President Mamnoon Hussain, Xi said he was shocked to learn about the serious terrorist attack which have caused major casualties, Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang said mediapersons here. On behalf of the Chinese government and on a personal note, Xi expressed condolences and deep sympathy to victims and families, Qin said. Xi stressed China opposed to all forms of terrorism and strongly condemned these inhuman terrorist attacks. "The Chinese people stand with their Pakistan counterparts. China firmly supports Pakistan government's efforts to fight against terrorism," Xi said. In his message to Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, Li expressed sympathy to Pakistan government and people. Asked whether China being a close ally of Pakistan plans to give any specific assistance to Islamabad, Qin said China and Pakistan are friendly neighbours and cooperation partners. "We understand and sympathise with Pakistan the challenges it meets in terrorism. We support them in taking efforts to fight against terrorism and safeguarding its state and society security," Qin said. At the same time Pakistan understands and supports China to eradicate the three evil forces of extremism, separatism and terrorism, he said. China seeks cooperation with Pakistan to crackdown on the Uygur militants from Xinjiang belonging to the East Turkistan Islamic Movement, which has training bases in Pakistan. Xinjiang which experienced violent attacks in the recent years borders Pakistan occupied Kashmir. "Therefore in cooperation on the counter terrorism, it is an important part of bilateral relations as president Xi and Premier Li mentioned we will continue to stand with Pakistan in their unremitting efforts to fight terrorism and we will continue with our cooperation in this area," Qin said.
The classification will result in lower fee, especially for bank brokers, as a Rs 100 cap on annual maintenance charges ...
However, inflows remain robust in despite a 6.5% crack in key stock indices
Copyrights © 2015 Business Standard Private Ltd. All rights reserved.