2014-10~12
http://www.dawn.com/news/1143746/china-targets-wild-imams-in-mass-public-sentencing

China targets 'wild imams' in mass public sentencing - World - DAWN.COM
BEIJING: China has jailed almost two dozen people including “wild imams” who preach illegally in the western region of Xinjiang where the government says Islamists are waging a violent campaign for a separate state, Chinese media reported on Tuesday.
The 22 suspects were sentenced to prison terms ranging from five to 16 years at a mass public sentencing in Xinjiang on Monday, the state-controlled China News Service reported.
As well as the imams, or Muslim religious leaders, those sentenced included religious leaders who engaged in religious activities after being sacked, as well as those who broke the law while at their posts, it said.
Others were accused of inciting ethnic hatred, using superstition to destroy the law, and picking quarrels and provoking trouble, it said.
Xinjiang is home to a mostly Muslim minority group known as Uighurs.
China has vowed to crack down on religious extremism, which it blames for a string of violent attacks this year in Xinjiang and elsewhere.
Exiles and activists say Chinese controls on the religion and culture of the Uighur people is more a cause of the violence than well-organised militant groups.
The exiled World Uyghur Congress condemned the sentencing in a statement, saying it was religious repression that trampled on the rights of the Uighur people.
“The so-called distinction between legal and illegal religion is determined based on China's political needs,” said Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the group. “Uighurs basically have no rights to faith.”
Mass public sentencings have become common in Xinjiang, with state television often showing them taking place in packed outdoor auditoriums.
Rights groups have said mass trials and sentencings deny the accused the right to due process.
A court in September jailed for life the country's most prominent advocate for Uighur rights in a case that provoked an outcry in the West and among rights groups.
China is worried that militants in Xinjiang can get support from Islamists in nearby Pakistan and Afghanistan.
US President Barack Obama, in an interview with the official Xinhua news agency that ran late on Monday, said terrorist groups should not be allowed to establish a safe haven along China's periphery.
Where are Pakistan and Pakistani? Their Muslim brothers in China need them. Will Pakistan dare to speak anything?
India should follow same steps to become all weather friend of pak ;)
How our Pakistani friends react to this? Had it been done in India, I am sure Pakistanis would have flooded with anti India rants!! But, as we say, You don have guts to tell a spade a spade and that is reason for your fall.
Will any of you criticize he Chinese? You cannot - they will make Gwadar part of China.
Where they become more than 50% they asked for separate state and start violence
No comment yet??
Oh..okay... I got it; it happened in all weather friend country. Ignore this news.
Extremists should be jailed and hanged! They dont preach Islam....they preach violence and Islam is a religion of Peace.
Thats a great news to hear about the all weather friend...
@Sohan No they are busy to sycophant the Chinese , now they cannot see any Muslim around them. Take some break.
Israel & china are two countries who have the same policies...
China is even better oppressor than Israel... In coming 2-3 decades Xinxiang will be a Han majority province..it will have the same faith as Tibet...
all over the world wherever you go such imams are encouraging muslims and demanding separate states,they are desturbing local majority people, and whle action is taking upon them these people will start shouting islam khatreme hai. and the people of that follwer will start damaging proprty and killing innocent people. we indian are facing not only indian but the whole world is now disturb.epicentre is in pakistan who only gives shelter to internationaly declare terririst..
@Sohan if these ppl are indeed conducting separatist movements, china has the right to do something about it.
The Hui Muslims in China are prosperous. The Uighurs are like the Baloch in Pakistan, their agitation has little to do with Islam, but more with Ethnic nationalism. Islam is propering in China, as can be seen in the Hui Muslims.
@raja hindustani Their ready made comment will be "respect rule of land (but only for saudi and china)"
Pakistanis and muslims are hiding now? looks like this is the only way to deal with them, you give them too much freedom they sit on your head!
@Pc China is the only friend country left with Pakistan so poor Pakistani brothers would not speak single word against China. What will happen to brothers?
All Paki's imams have hidden themselves inside a hole like rats. So much is the terror of all weather friend.
@Simranjit singh Mann I am sure that militants in Pakistan will not ditch their Muslim brothers in China and will start jihad against China. :-)..Pakistan government can't dare speaking single word against China.... How can they even think to loose the only country which supports them... :-)
@rajat I am neither Pakistani nor Mulim and I find your generalisation misplaced. I hope that you can see problems with your line of argument
So who is Under Threat Now? Who will we gonna save? Islam or Pakistan ?
@Sohan Never my friend. How can you question them, we are prepared to help them in this matter. Recently announced by NS at his visit to China.
Pakistanis trust China and have no reason to doubt the sincerity of their actions. Pakistanis don't take sides just for the sack of it. They are rational people and only speak when they see injustice like the ill treatment of Kashmiris who are not being given the right of plebiscite as required by a UN resolution.
we need something like this in pakistan. lots of wild imams running around ruining the country.
Fair enough if the Chinese law calls for it. Similarly if a non-muslim in Pakistan conducts blasphemy he of SHE should be hanged, like Asia Bibi because Pakisani law calls for it. If government will not hang culprits people will take law in their hands.
It's a matter of time other countries will also follow the same if Muslims do not get their act together
@ Moosa Dear Moosa, if its your consistent policy, I salute you. But, all Muslims in India are oppressed and elsewhere not policy is height of double standard.
@imran Wow Imran....what a super logic....you sure are living in stone age in 2014
@M. Jan Indian law calls for elimination of Kashmiri terrorists. Period. With Modi. we will achieve that. Come what may.
When will we get to do anything about our country's wild imams?
Well done China they are doing correctly thing, our Quran says safe the humans that's it, if they are creating problems for the world humans illuminate them.
@Pc - The final outcome of the struggle for freedom by Kashmiris will disappoint the likes of you. Arrogance and brutality can't keep a people suppressed forever. The civilized world recognize the right of Kashmiris to choose their destiny through a plebiscite as demanded by the UN resolution.
@Safar Shah - Prosperity is not the issue here. Its being allowed to practise Islam. Chinese do not allow any other way of life that is not aligned to the Communist Party. Please do not make excuses for China just because you get aid from them.
Firstly I am surprised to see very little response in comments from Pakistani brothers. Well the dilemma Pakistan now is just exemplary. They show their solidarity with Kashmir stating that Muslim brotherhood is suffering there, they rush to stand against Israel again stating that it is the duty of the Muslim brother hood, but their leadership ignores the fate of Uighurs and their right to perform their religion; just to avoid 'conflict of interests' with its best friend the Red Dragon. Similarly they forget to stand solidarity with the suffering Tibetians, the democracy activists etc. of course leave it they are not Muslims to care for but in case of Uighurs instead of expressing its dissatisfaction Pakistan is willing to aid China in eliminating Uighurs extremists !. Having done this China will definitely dump Pakistan, as it know a suffering Pakistan is of no use for it. Pakistan is badly in need of a policy, policy can be flexible and may even change but at least there should be a policy.
@M. Jan Another point. Can you please let us know your view about suppressed Tibetans : oppressed by arrogant, Chinese. Or, you will stay silent?
Islam is the religion of Peace and the Muslims in China do want to practice their religion in Peaceful manner.It is the fundamental right of every citizen to live peacefully. Xinjiang is home of Uyghur Muslims living there peacefully from centuries and keep their traditions. Allama Iqbal in his famous poem ,said
Aik hoon muslim Harem ki pasbani kae liae Neel kae sahil sae lekar ta ba khak e kashghar(Uyghur)
@Sreenath Our Pakistani brother is thinking to give excuses to defend their best friend China :-) ....
@Zubair But China is an atheist nation. It doesn't permit even Buddhism. So you want to go against rule of land as you say about Saudi Arabia
@M. Jan: Yes, We shud also fight for Uighurs in China & Chechens in Russia.. Wherever we are in trouble, we should fight for them!!!
@Zubair islam is a religion of peace. ..true infact all religion of world teach us peace & harmony. But in which corner of the world Muslim r leaving with peace. ???The problem is that Muslim community are driven by these Mullahs...All over the world these mullahs are inciting innocent people and create tension among communities. .
@Zubair I don't believe so. There is violence and chaos in just about every muslim country.
Extremists must be punished wherever they are. China loves Pakistan means Muslims as well. But if you disturb her security, an action is then vital. China's right decision.
Hate India- fight forever - demand Kashmir because Muslims live there. Love China- love forever- demand loan and arms because Muslims are crushed there. Great Pakistan rationale.
@Zubair This problem is all over the world so have to support other countries too not only china but, everyone know you are known for double standard
" Uigher is non muslim chinies people " in Pakistani views . Only Kashmiri people is muslim as Pakistan point of view . Pakistan need to stop dual policies over muslim and non muslim identification. India has taken strong action on Kashmir issue at this time .
@raja hindustani you better read the recent report of the 8 woman who died because of poor health and treatment condition which shows India's backwardness in every field ... Actions are lauder then the words
@M. Emad : Firstly China changed the name of " East Turkestan Republic" to Xinjiang on Invading and Absorbing it in China in 1949 and Secondly started the process pf Hannization whereby now the Han Chinese Population of Xinjiang is FIFTY PER CENT.
'Xinjiang is home to a mostly Muslim minority group known as Uighurs'.
NO:
Demographics
 • Ethnic
 composition
43.3% Uyghur
41.0% Han
8.3% Kazakh
5.0% Hui
0.9% Kyrgyz
0.8% Mongol
0.3% Dongxiang
0.2% Pamiri
0.2% Xibe
Adding up Kazakhs and Kyrgyz to Uighurs makes Xinjiang a more than 50% Muslim majority area.
Excellent move by Chinese government. No room for non educated who only spew hatred!
Excellent! Such radicals should be in jail and punished. Pakistan needs the same scheme to control its religious intolerance atmosphere.
Out of 65 comments, 60 are Indians. Why native persons decided to avoid commenting on the subject ? Is this double standard while dealing religious matters ?
@Pc 
@Pankaj 
It is a country whose foreign policy success is measured on how much money it could beg
The citizens of which do not realize that the food they eat and the money they have is begged from other countries in form of aid
Interesting to see over 85% comment in this thread are by Indians. They have a stake in spoiling Pakistan China relationship which is higher than the highest mountain, deeper than Challengers Deep in the Pacific, and sweeter than honey.
@M. Jan "Pakistanis don't take sides just for the sack of it. They are rational people and only speak when they see injustice"
Very good sense of humor. One must applaud.
@indian It seems, they are very busy in writing a letter to UN that's why no major comments have come yet. As "ACTION SPEAKS LOUDER THAN WORDS." Soon we will get some real action all over Pakistan starting with "Million March" (hope this time they will come up with real mathematical No). After that Pakistan parliament will pass a anti-China resolution. Lolz......
@indian It seems, they are very busy in writing a letter to UN that's why no major comments have come yet. As "ACTION SPEAKS LOUDER THAN WORDS." Soon we will get some real action all over Pakistan starting with "Million March" (hope this time they will come up with real mathematical no). After that Pakistan parliament will pass a anti-China resolution. Oh wait...Plz omit the last sentence coz Pakistan wouldn't do that as china is all weather friend.
@Salamat But they are right bhai !!! Lets see if the leader of our muslim ummah (SA) will say something about it. Maybe NOT!
Pakistan should reign in all the violence provoking mullahs too. The government should start issuing official scripts for Friday and Eid prayer sermons like Saudi Arabia. Any deviation or rebel rousing sermons should get Mullahs jail time.
It is the duty of every government to control religious extremism. It needs to be pointed out that arrests of Imams have started only now that extremism is flourishing in Xianjiang. why were there no similar arrests fifteen years ago ? India and Pakisatn should follow the Chinese example and imprison those who preach religious extremism or hatred.
@Pc china doesnt claim to be the world's biggest democracy unlike india who is propogating itself as the protector and a leading democratic country in the world meanwhile suppressing and torturing people in kashmir and ignoring all the UN resolutions to give fundamental rights to the people of kashmir. Atleast chine isnt a hypocrat like india.
@Sohan r u from the same country who didnt even bother to come and rescue its own sailors and now u r suggesting to pakistanis to go and help suppressed chinese.it doesnt suit u atleast to give us such recommendations.
@imran Following your logic, India doesn't have enough rope to hang these kind of people.
@M. Jan 
Clearly you do not know what the UNSC resolution was all about. Read the resolution carefully and then talk about Kashmir. Kashmir acceded to India and that is the legal position. Everything else was no binding and also subject to Pakistan vacating POK. Why not read the resolution word for word and then see what happened to obligations I posed on Pakistan. Pakistan even illegally ceded occupied territory to China. 
Mr. Jan where are you coming from? You have no legal basis to make wild claims.
@imran In Pakistan a non-Muslim does not have to commit Blasphemy. Any Muslim can do it and blame a non-Muslim for committing a blasphemy. An Imam and a pious mob can take care of the rest.
Pakistan should also put a few thousand 'Wild Imams' in prison. Unfortunately our law enforcing agencies and courts are so scared of them.
@Zubair 
 in Pakistan and ALL other MUSLIM majority country minorities MUST NOT have their rights to practice their religion ..But where ever MUSLIMS are in minority they MUST have their rights..Is that what you want to say..
look across world and tell me a SINGLE Muslim majority country where it allows MINORITIES to practice their religion in FREEDOM.. NON NON my friend..
first learn to GIVE and then you can ASK..
I think this is a great thing China has done as an example for our friends in Pakistan to observe and learn from. Pakistan should consider doing the same with its out-of-control mullahs too. Let's sign a MOU on this as well.
It just proves the point that Pakistan can be bought easily.
China has got it right.
No one has the right to move to a country and incite hatred and then try to change their laws... You live by the law of the land or move somewhere else that has the laws you want to live by. Simple!
Xinxiang is not a UN resoluted issue. But despite that Pakistan has influenced China to scale back on its crackdown. What is seen is 50% less than what would be. India is quite because due to indian occupation of Kashmir , it has nothing to say out of guilt.
@rohit950723 Israel and India- worst perpetrators of worst oppression on palistine and Kashmiris.
@Ganga Din it's not ok with anyone. Kashmir is under UN resolutions like palistine. Xinxiang is not.
@indian not needed because no UN resolution to refer to like in Kashmir.
@Pc Kashmir will be free after UN implements the plebiscite.
@Mahendra Singh kill Muslims in Gujarat, 5,000 , kill Muslims in Ayodhya 3,000, kill Muslims in muzafanagar 1,000 kill 120,000 Kashmiri civilians in IOK then compare itself to China, where 135 extremists , al Qaeda affiliates have been killed. Pakistan itself is killing RAW funded terrorists in FATA, who have tried the same in Xinxiang. India is the scum of South Asia, and needs to be broken into pieces to different nations like Tamil nadu, Khalistan, Assam. Not even same religion, culture or history.
@joe Malaysia, Pakistan, Iran, Indonesia, you want more. All these countries have churches, temples, synagogues. Ignorance is not bliss, mate!
@Pc So far , only Indians seem to be going wild with Anti Pakistan rant . And isn't India forever lecturing us about "setting or own house straight" first? Now that there are not enough comments from Pakistan , Indians are getting stomach cramps ? Why don't you totally confused Indians make up your mind first as to what you want ?
To editor- the photo caption states ' Chinese para military policemen watch 2 uighurs pass by. Those two are not Uighurs but either Afghani or Pakistani. They are wearing Shalwar kameez, national dress of our two alike countries.
@rohit950723 No Israel and India both start with I and have the same policy. The Uighurs are being infiltrated by western intelligence agencies to create a rift between Pakistan and China. Indians on the contrary are denying a promise as per UN resolutions to the kasmiri muslims, same is the situation with Israel. However, no such resolution exists for the Uighurs. Indians like Israelis are two sides of the same coin and both will end in the garbage of history Insha Allah.
@dipak Read the article again, dud! They are not allowed to practice / perform the Muslim Faith. Who told you Chinese Muslims are claiming separate state?
@Sohan Decide first what you want . Indians object if Pakistanis speak ; Indians object if Pakistanis do not speak .
@Pankaj There is little reference to China and more reference to Pakistan in a news about China . Speaks volumes about Indian obsession with Pakistan.
@Sreenath Even more surprising is how Indians are flocking to drag Pakistan into something it has nothing to do with . I guess Indians are disappointed that Pakistan hasn't taken a confrontational stance on this issue with China. Indians are really disappointed when Pakistan does not do anything rash. I remember an Indian actually suggesting that Pakistan should nuke Iran ! I don't think he was joking when he suggested that. So, dear Indians, grow up and stop seeing Pakistan in every issue.
@Salamat Indians have a stake in Pakistan having sour relations with ANY country !
@Sohan I think China would be the ONLY country that would actually matter in the next few decades
@Zak: What are u saying man? What about our own HR violations in Bangladesh & Balochistan?. Plus we have rented out our Tribal areas to be bombed by US for cheap dollars..
@Sohan Be a sensible person! Every Pakistani cannot impose his/ her will on China. It is the responsibility of our leadership to investigate the real facts and take appropriate steps at diplomatic level. Don't worry we shall resolve the issues with China soon. China is not raciest stupid as Indian leadership has proved in the past... by avoiding Dialogue process! Give your good suggestions to Modi and be a good neighbor. Thanks!
@Zak what have you done to christians off late? a young christian couple was burnt alive. this is what you do to minorities.
@Aslam shaikh:
True you cannot impose your will on China but you can criticize it in the National Assembly.
@rehan:
So you knell in front of the upcoming power? Good logic!!
@IBN E ASHFAQUE:
Can you please quote me the resolution of UN on Kashmir?

PIA’s fate to be decided at joint sitting of parliament


Pakistani scientist’s parents celebrate son’s feat in their dilapidated home


Disenfranchisement of women remains a hot issue in KP 


Pakistan fail to show up as Dhoni lauds India’s turnaround kings


From Cairo, It’s Saturday Night Live — without politics, sex or religion
