2014-10~12
http://www.aljazeera.com/news/asia-pacific/2014/11/china-jails-wild-imams-mass-crackdown-2014111110131105352.html

China jails 'wild imams' in mass crackdown - Al Jazeera English
Meet the refugees who fled Syria for the Gaza Strip
11 Nov 2014 11:14 GMT | Politics, Asia Pacific, China, Islam
China has imprisoned almost two dozen people - mostly Muslim religious leaders - in the western region of Xinjiang, in a stepped up crackdown on "illegal religious activities", Chinese media reported.
The 22 suspects, including so-called "wild imams", were given prison terms ranging from five to 16 years at a mass public sentencing in Xinjiang on Monday, the state-run China News Service reported.
Among religious leaders imprisoned were those who continued "religious activities", including preaching, after being sacked from their official posts, it said.
Others were accused of inciting hatred against the country's predominant ethnic Han Chinese, using supersitution to destroy the law, and picking quarrels and provoking trouble, it said.
Xinjiang is home to the mostly Muslim minority group known as the Uighurs.
China has vowed to crack down on religious extremism, which it blames for a string of violent attacks this year in Xinjiang and elsewhere.
However, exiles and activists say Chinese controls on the religion and culture of the Uighur people is more of a cause of violence than armed groups.
The exiled World Uighur Congress condemned the mass sentencing in a statement, saying it was religious repression that trampled the rights of their people.
"The so-called distinction between legal and illegal religion is determined based on China's political needs," said Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the group.
Mass public sentencings have become common in Xinjiang, with state television often showing them taking place in packed outdoor auditoriums. Rights groups have said mass trials and sentencings deny the accused the right to due process.
A court in September jailed for life the country's most prominent advocate for Uighur rights in a case that provoked an outcry in the West and among rights groups.
China is worried that state enemies in Xinjiang can get support from Islamists in nearby Pakistan and Afghanistan.

 Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
 are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
 or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
 global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
 accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.

During the first two weeks of March, at least 1,428 were arrested for breaching Hungary's border fence with Serbia.
As Obama prepares to visit, questions remain over whether the embargo will be lifted and the future of Guantanamo Bay.
Are memes calling the Irish "the first slaves" an attempt to derail conversations about slavery and modern-day racism?
Palestinian American Farouk Shami is an associate who says the Republican candidate would make a "great president".
Moscow warns it will act unilaterally in response to alleged ceasefire infringements by Syrian rebels starting Tuesday.
But US president acknowledges "significant differences" on human rights and civil liberties amid one-party state rule.
Latin American migrants risk life and limb to reach the US border in search of the American dream.
The incredible story of 18 cows that became Israel's most wanted fugitives and symbols of Palestinian resistance.
Five years after the revolution, Tunisia's black minority has yet to experience the freedoms enjoyed by other citizens.