2014-10~12
http://www.singaporestar.com/index.php/sid/228349837

China Sentences 8 to Death for Knife, Bomb Attacks in West - Singapore Star
BEIJING - China sentenced eight people to death for their roles in two knife and bomb attacks this spring in the country's violence-plagued western region of Xinjiang, state media reported on Monday.
In April, a knife and bomb attack at a train station in the region's capital of Urumqi killed three and injured 79. In May, 39 people at a Urumqi market were killed when attackers hurled explosives out of the windows of two SUVs.
Five others were given a sentence of "suspended death", which in China is usually tantamount to life in prison. Four others were given lesser prison sentences, state television said.
State television broadcast interviews with some of the defendants, who said they had been led astray and regretted their actions.
In such a heavily politicized environment, a fair trial was impossible, said Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for exile group the World Uyghur Congress.
"China has not looked at all for the root causes of the incident from the point of view of their own extreme policies," he said in an emailed statement.
Hundreds of people have been killed in the region in the past two years, mostly due to violence between the Muslim Uighur minority and the majority Han Chinese. The government has blamed a series of attacks in other parts of China, including Beijing, on Islamist militants from Xinjiang.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest. Beijing denies that.
Xinjiang, resource-rich and strategically located on the borders of central Asia, is crucial to China's growing energy needs. Analysts say most of the proceeds from sales of its resources have gone to majority Han Chinese, stoking resentment among Uighurs.
Sydney - Australia's iconic Sydney Opera House and Harbour Bridge went dark on Saturday night, as the Earth Hour campaign to switch off lights to call for action on climate change began rolling out across the planet, organisers said.
Millions of people from 178 countries and territories are expected to take part in WWF's Earth Hour this year, with monuments and buildings such as the Eiffel Tower, Taipei 101 and the Empire State Building plunging into darkness for 60 minutes from 20:30 local time.
In Sydney, where the Earth Hour idea originated in 2007, many harbour-side buildings fell dark as the city switched off for the tenth year in a row.
"We just saw the Sydney Harbour Bridge switch its lights off... and buildings around as well," Earth Hour's Australia manager Sam Webb told AFP from The Rocks area.
Earth Hour's global executive director Siddarth Das said organisers were excited about how much the movement had grown since it began in Sydney in 2007.
"From one city it has now grown to over 178 countries and territories and over 7 000 cities so we couldn't be happier about how millions of people across the world are coming together for climate action," he told AFP via telephone from Singapore ahead of the lights out.
Das said momentum towards climate action was building in the wake of the global climate talks in Paris last year.
The so-called Paris Agreement sets the goal of limiting global warming to "well below" 2deg;C over pre-industrial levels, with a more ambitious target of 1.5deg;C if possible.
Das said people were experiencing the impact of climate change more now than when Earth Hour began, adding that "climate change has now become a more personal topic".
"Noone is denying the fact that the world is at a climate crossroads, but while we are seeing more and more impacts of climate change we are also witnessing a completely new momentum in climate action that is transcending borders and generations," he said.
"I feel that there's a renewed vigour among individuals and governments to come together for strong climate action and to fight climate change."
Das said Earth Hour organisers did not collect global statistics on the energy conserved during the 60-minute blackout and that the event has always had symbolic intent, saying it was more a moment of global solidarity about a global problem.
Singapore / Tokyo, Mar.21 (ANI): Subway is the most important transport system in Singapore with ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) The government on Monday approved 15 FDI proposals worth Rs.7,261.60 ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Following his maiden win in the Indian Open last weekend, ...
<br>Food Standards Australia and New Zealand has issued an alert that selected batches of Spring ...
<br>The equity and debt crowdfunding?platform says it will connect start-ups in Southeast Asia and China ...
Get the latest Singapore Star headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Singapore Star - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved