2014-10~12
http://www.afr.com/p/special_reports/opportunityasia/hong_kong_says_much_about_the_future_dJJL8gQBHkhp31oOUoN9oK

Hong Kong says much about the future of China | afr.com

 For full functionality of this site it is necessary to enable JavaScript.
 Here are the 
 instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.

In theory, the “umbrella revolution" has been triggered by some technicalities in the electoral mechanisms that Beijing recently announced for choosing Hong Kong’s next chief executive in 2017.
Beijing has ruled that while Hong Kong can enjoy universal suffrage polls, politicians who want to run for the special administrative region’s highest office in 2017 must first win the support of more than half of the members of a Nomination Committee which is largely hand-picked by Chinese authorities.
Participants in the Occupy Central (OC) movement have paralysed traffic to the territory’s business and government districts as well as several tourists spots by camping out there for the foreseeable future.
Efforts last Sunday by the administration of the current CE, CY Leung – who is widely seen as a stooge of the Party – to disperse the protesters proved counter-productive.The heavy-handed tactics simply provoked more people to show up on the streets – so much so that the territory under “occupation" has consistently expanded.
Sensing his mistakes, Leung has taken the police off the streets since Monday. This has allowed the protestors to consolidate their hold by erecting home-made barricades and building huge supplies.
President 
 
 Xi Jinping
 , who is also commander-in-chief and the Politburo Standing Committee member responsible for Hong Kong, Taiwan, Tibet and Xinjiang, is monitoring the situation closely. Judging by his harsh suppression of the religious and cultural identities of Uighurs and Tibetans, Xi is known to favour draconian measures against dissidents.
According to Chinese sources close to the CCP’s Hong Kong policymaking apparatus, Xi has put the Hong Kong Garrison of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) – which consists of 6000-odd soldiers – on alert. These elite troops have in the past six months undergone intensive riot control exercises with a view of crushing the OC movement if the Hong Kong police were to fail to do the job.
The 61-year-old Xi, however, faces a dilemma. The image of PLA soldiers knocking down protestors on Hong Kong streets will evoke comparisons with the Tiananmen Square massacre.The deploying of troops will also amount to an admission that the leadership of 1.35 billion people cannot control a city of 7 million.
Yet allowing OC activists to continue their virtual rule over vast swathes of Hong Kong will also make Beijing – and in particular supreme leader Xi – lose face.
The only way out hinges on whether Xi might consider some face-saving concessions. Apart from liberalising the electoral mechanism to allow SAR residents a substantial say in picking candidates for CE polls in 2017, the most effective way to pacify newly emboldened Hong Kong citizens may be to sack the unpopular and divisive Leung.
Even assuming that a compromise can be struck, however, the David v Goliath “asymmetrical warfare" between the tiny SAR and the ever-more-muscular CCP says much about the future development of China.
After Xi took over the leadership in late 2012, the powerful princeling has revived many of Chairman Mao Zedong’s policies, which include ideological campaigns to wean Chinese off universal values such as freedom of expression and independence of the judiciary. Xi has also been stoking the flames of nationalism, which is one of the few reliable pillars of the CCP’s legitimacy. Thus Beijing has repeatedly accused democracy activists in Hong Kong of “collusion with anti-China foreign forces" to turn the SAR into a “base of subversion against the socialist motherland".
The CCP administration has since the mid-2000s been overtly interfering in Hong Kong’s domestic affairs. Beijing’s representatives are openly supporting pro-establishment candidates in elections to the local Legislative Council and District Boards. It is estimated that Beijing has stationed at least a couple thousand Chinese police and intelligence officers in the SAR.Some of these state-security personnel have been spying on and harassing pro-democracy figures.
The showdown between Hong Kong and Beijing demonstrates that the Xi administration can flagrantly disregard international treaties such as the Sino-British Joint Declaration on Hong Kong signed in 1984 to preserve the territory’s high degree of autonomy. The CCP also seems to have little desire of joining the community of “civilised" nations, both Western and Asia, which agree to abide by UN Covenants regarding civil and political liberties as well as social justice.
The eventual decision taken by Beijing to resolve the Hong Kong conundrum will show the world whether the Xi-led Politburo, which has vowed to preserve the CCP’s “perennial ruling party" status, will heed the advice of democracy-loving Chinese in Hong Kong and other regions to stand on the right side of history.
Unlimited access to business news and market insights across any device