2014-10~12
http://news.yahoo.com/top-asian-news-7-00-m-gmt-070257008.html

Top Asian News at 7:30 a.m. GMT - Yahoo News
TAIPEI, Taiwan (AP) — Taiwan's relations with historic foe China are playing a key role in local elections on the self-ruled island Saturday as the ruling Nationalist Party meets increased resistance to forging stronger ties with Beijing. Voters on the island with a population of about 23 million will elect representatives to 11,130 local seats, including mayoral posts in major cities such as the capital, Taipei.
BEIJING (AP) — A prominent human rights lawyer was released Saturday from six months in police custody in central China, according a Beijing-based social justice group. Chang Boyang has been campaigning for the rights of migrant workers, HIV patients and children poisoned in a 2008 tainted milk scandal.
BEIJING (AP) — Beijing has adopted a smoking ban in all indoor public spaces including workplaces and public transport. The official Xinhua News Agency reports the ban will go into effect on June 1 and carry a fine of up to 200 yuan or $32.50. The Standing Committee of Beijing Municipal People's Congress passed the draft regulation Friday.
BEIJING (AP) — A leading Chinese rights activist who organized rallies for media freedom pleaded not guilty to charges of disturbing public order in an all-night trial in which the judge rejected his requests for food, a lawyer said. The case against Yang Maodong, 48, comes amid a broadening crackdown on dissent. In January, a Beijing court sentenced legal activist Xu Zhiyong to four years in prison for leading a loosely organized civil movement. Several of his followers also were imprisoned.
HONG KONG (AP) — At age 14, he stepped into the spotlight to take on — and ultimately help defeat — Hong Kong authorities' plans to launch a "national education" curriculum, calling it a ploy to brainwash the city's youth with unquestioned support for the Chinese Communist Party. Now, at 18, Joshua Wong is helping spearhead a mostly student-led protest movement that is pressing for greater democratic reforms in the semiautonomous Chinese territory.
CANBERRA, Australia (AP) — Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott, who rose to power in large part by opposing a tax on greenhouse gas emissions, is finding his country isolated like never before on climate change as the U.S., China and other nations signal new momentum for action. Abbott tried and failed to keep the issue off the agenda of the annual G-20 summit of wealthy and emerging countries that was hosted by the Australian city of Brisbane in mid-November. An agreement between Washington and Beijing to curb emissions, announced days before the summit, suggests he had misjudged the international mood on the issue.
TOKYO (AP) — A volcano in southern Japan blasted out chunks of magma Friday in the first such eruption in 22 years, causing flight cancellations and prompting warnings to stay away from its crater. The Japan Meteorological Agency said that Mount Aso spewed out lava debris and smoke, shooting plumes of ash a kilometer (3,280 feet) into the sky. Dozens of flights from Kumamoto, the nearest city, were canceled.
A renewed plunge in oil prices is a worrying sign of weakness in the global economy that could shake governments dependent on oil revenues. Yet it is also a bonus for consumers as prices fall at the pump, giving individuals more spending money and lowering costs for many businesses. The latest slide follows OPEC's decision to leave its production target at 30 million barrels a day. Member nations of the cartel are worried they'll lose market share if they lower production.
TOKYO (AP) — Japan's biggest newspaper apologized in print Friday for using the term "sex slaves" in its English-language edition to describe Asian women forced into Japanese military-run brothels during World War II. The conservative Yomiuri said in articles in English and Japanese that it was inappropriate to have used the phrase and others implying the women were coerced to provide sex. The newspaper identified 97 articles, including 85 of its own, with "sex slaves" or similar expressions between 1992 and 2013.
BEIJING (AP) — Chinese authorities say in a six-month report card on their security crackdown in Xinjiang that they busted 115 terrorist gangs before they could unleash violence. But tallies of death tolls in the ethnically tense region suggest the violence has continued, and may even have intensified. Information from the region is routinely suppressed so experts caution against any firm conclusions about the level of violence in the far western region that is home to 10 million members of the Muslim Uighur minority, who chafe under what they consider suppression by China's ethnic majority Han. However, both Chinese state-run media and foreign outlets who monitor Xinjiang have continued to report a stream of deadly clashes.
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia (AP) — Malaysia Airlines on Friday said its loss widened last quarter and apologized for a promotional tweet slammed as insensitive after two deadly passenger jet disasters this year. In its last public financial result before a planned privatization and overhaul, the flag carrier said its net loss in the July-September quarter rose 53 percent from a year earlier to 576.1 million ringgit ($170.3 million).
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka (AP) — Sri Lanka's opposition presidential candidate vowed Friday not to support any international prosecution of incumbent President Mahinda Rajapaksa for alleged war crimes. Former Health Minister Maithripala Sirisena announced his candidacy last week after leading a revolt in Rajapaksa's government. The main opposition United National Party has pledged to support him in the Jan. 8 election.
NEW DELHI (AP) — The Indian government believes 39 workers abducted nearly six months ago by the Islamic State group in Iraq are alive despite claims by one who escaped that the others had been killed. Efforts are continuing to locate them in the absence of any direct contact with them, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj told India's parliament on Friday.
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) — Insurgents killed six Afghan soldiers in an assault on an army base Friday that lasted more than 14 hours, a day after attacks on foreign targets in Kabul killed two British embassy employees. Nearly 30 insurgents, including seven suicide bombers, swarmed Camp Bastion in southern Helmand province in the early hours of Friday morning, said the deputy head of the Afghan National Army in the province, Ghulam Farooq Parwani.
In this photo by Aijaz Rahi, an Indian air force graduate is tossed in the air by his colleagues after their passing out parade ceremony in Bangalore, India. A total of 121 officers, including 45 women, who completed their initial 74 weeks of training were inducted into the air force at Friday's event. India has stepped up recruiting and training of military personnel in its efforts to modernize the armed forces and meet its growing security interests. The country has become the world's biggest arms and defense equipment buyer in recent years and is expected to spend $80 billion over the next eight years to upgrade its military.