2014-10~12
http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/News-of-the-Day-From-Across-the-Globe-Oct-20-5833606.php

News of the Day From Across the Globe, Oct. 20 - SFGate
1China violence: An attack on a farmers market in the western Chinese region of Xinjiang has reportedly left at least 22 people dead and dozens injured, Radio Free Asia reported. The rampage, which took place Oct. 12 in Kashgar Prefecture, was carried out by four men armed with knives and explosives who attacked police officers and merchants before the men were shot dead by the police. Most of the victims were ethnic Han Chinese and the assailants were ethnic Uighur. Uighurs complain about job discrimination and Han migration to the region, which many see as an effort to dilute their ethnic identity. It was not immediately clear what prompted the attack.
2 Soldiers killed: A roadside bomb in Egypt’s restive northern Sinai province hit an army vehicle on Sunday, killing seven troops, including two officers, and seriously wounding six, officials said. The explosion ripped through the armored vehicle traveling south of el-Arish. The region has been a haven for Islamic militants who have waged regular attacks against troops and security forces.
3Border skirmish: Troops from the rival Koreas exchanged gunfire Sunday along their heavily fortified border in the second such shooting in less than 10 days, South Korean officials said. There were no reports of injuries or property damage, but the shooting highlighted rising tensions. The Koreas’ first exchange of gunfire came after North Korea opened fire at balloons carrying anti-Pyongyang leaflets that were floating across the border from the South. Sunday’s shootout began after North Korea sent soldiers close to the border.
4Boats collide: Two tourists from South Korea were missing Sunday after a boat carrying them and about two dozen others collided with a fishing vessel near Thailand’s southern resort of Phuket, police said. The tourist speedboat was carrying 34 people and three crew members when it hit the fishing vessel. Marine police and villagers were able to rescue most of those aboard the tourist boat, but a man and a woman from South Korea were missing. Some of the tourists suffered injuries.
5Bolivia election: Bolivia’s top electoral court has confirmed the re-election of President Evo Morales. The official results released late Saturday show Morales and his Movement Toward Socialism party got 61 percent of the Oct. 12 vote. Cement magnate Samuel Doria Medina of the center-right Democratic Unity alliance came in second with 24.5 percent.
6Submarine search: The Swedish military’s search for evidence of suspected undersea activity in its waters entered its third day Sunday amid reports of a suspected Russian intrusion. The operation was reminiscent of the Cold War, when Sweden routinely hunted for Soviet submarines in its waters. The Svenska Dagbladet daily reported that the Swedes had picked up an emergency message suggesting a Russian mini-submarine had run into trouble in Swedish waters and could be damaged. But a spokesman for Russia’s Defense Ministry said no military vessels had been involved in accidents.