2014-10~12
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang-want-to-ban-burqa:-Could-spark-unrest-32945.html

CHINA Xinjiang want to ban burqa: Could spark unrest
Urumqi (AsiaNews/Agencies) - A proposed burqa ban in the capital city of Xinjiang
province could spark further unrest in the troubled region, experts warn.
The Urumqi People's Congress Standing Committee voted
yesterday in favour of banning people from wearing the garment in public, the
local news website Tianshan.net reported.
The proposal must now be reviewed by the regional
People's Congress Standing Committee before it is implemented, though the
report - later deleted from the site - did not specify when this would happen.
The burqa, a garment worn by Muslim woman to cover
themselves from head-to-toe, is considered a symbol of religious extremism by
the local authorities.
"Burqas are not a traditional Muslim garment in
Xinjiang," said Jiang Zhaoyong, a Beijing-based expert on ethnic affairs.
"The ban has been issued following public security concerns. Some people
are wearing it not because of their religion, but to act out their resentments
against society."
Beijing blames religious extremists for a series of
attacks that have killed hundreds of people in Xinjiang over the past few
years.
Xinjiang launched a "beautifying project" in
2011 to discourage women from covering their faces and wearing the burqa. Several
campaigns against producing, selling or wearing the garments have been mounted
by county and district-level governments in the province.
Last month, Xinjiang said it would ban the practice of
religion in government workplaces, public schools and state-owned enterprises
from next year.
The
province is one of the most turbulent in all of China. Its Uighur Muslim
minority, who number about nine million, have long sought independence from
China.
The central
government, for its part, has brought in millions of settlers to make Han
Chinese the dominant ethnic group.
At the same
time, it has severely curtailed Muslim religious worship as well as the
teaching of the local language and culture.
Since 2009
Chinese police and the military have held the region under a special regime,
which Beijing imposed following clashes that left nearly 200 people
dead. As a
result of various episodes of violence, hundreds of long prison sentences were
imposed and dozens of death penalties were carried out.
Chinese
authorities blame Muslim extremists for the wave of violence. Uighur exiles
claim instead that Beijing is "exaggerating" the threat of Islamic
terrorism to justify repression against indigenous Uighurs.
AsiaNews spoke to Josephine, one of hundreds of Christians from Al-Hasakah, who spent a year in the hands of the Islamic State group. She talked about psychological suffering, conversion attempts, and separation from her male relatives. She survived thanks to her faith. Her mother Caroline, a Caritas official, is the only one in her family to have been spared the ordeal. She also negotiated their release with IS, and gave a Jihadi copies of the Bible. Now she hopes “to meet the pope” with her entire family.
Sister Rani Maria was killed in 1995, stabbed 54 times. The murderer was a radical Hindu, incited by village leaders, who wanted to stop the nun's activities in favor of tribal poor. The path "that led me to forgive Samunder Singh has not been easy, but now he's my brother." Instead, "my mother said once: 'I would kiss his hands, because on them there is the blood of my daughter'." The exchange of the Indian bracelet that celebrates love between siblings; the moment of encounter with the victim's mother.

 
2003 © All rights reserved - AsiaNews C.F. e P.Iva: 00889190153 - GLACOM®
Copyright ÂŠ 2003 AsiaNews C.F. 00889190153 All rights reserved. Content on this site is made available for personal, non-commercial use only. You may not reproduce, republish, sell or otherwise distribute the content or any modified or altered versions of it without the express written permission of the editor. Photos on AsiaNews.it are largely taken from the internet and thus considered to be in the public domain. Anyone contrary to their publication need only contact the editorial office which will immediately proceed to remove the photos.