2014-10~12
http://article.wn.com/view/2014/11/25/Xi_Risks_Silk_Road_Backlash_to_Reclaim_China_as_Center_of_Wo/

Xi Risks Silk Road Backlash to Reclaim China as Center of World - Worldnews.com

President Xi Jinping’s grand plan to make China the center of the world again by reviving the ancient Silk Road trading route faces obstacles at its first stop.In Kazakhstan, through which Xi envisages pipelines, roads and railways...

Get the top news stories delivered directly to your inbox!
ALMATY, Kazakhstan — President Xi Jinping's grand plan to make China the center of the world again by reviving the ancient Silk Road trading route faces obstacles at its...
Premier Li Keqiang is on the road, the Silk Road, to Kazakhstan this week as China seeks to increase its sway in a region long dominated by Russia. Li’s trip is the first...
A centuries-old template for China’s economic influence may be the best idea the nation’s current-day leaders have for addressing a shortfall in growth. China probably will...
China plans a $16.3 billion fund to finance construction of infrastructure linking domestic and overseas markets as President Xi Jinping pushes forward with his plans to...
China plans a $16.3 billion fund to finance construction of infrastructure linking domestic and overseas markets as President Xi Jinping pushes forward with his plans to revive the centuries old Silk Road trading route. The money will be used to build and expand railways, roads and pipelines in Chinese provinces that are part of the strategy to facilitate trade over land and...
(Source: The Central People's Government of the People's Republic of China ) Silk Road Economic Belt plan takes basic shape BEIJING - The general blueprint for the Silk Road Economic Belt has "basically" taken shape, Chinese officials said Oct 12. "The Silk Road Economic Belt will be characterized by openness and reciprocity, and China welcomes all sides' participation in the...
ALMATY, Oct. 29 (Xinhua) -- The creation of an economic belt stretching along the ancient Silk Road coincides with Kazakhstan's foreign policy, says a Kazakh expert on international issues. Chinese President Xi Jinping proposed the idea during his recent visit to Central Asia, eyeing the the cultural revival of the Silk Road, which historically links China with Central Asia and...
ASTANA - Chinese Premier Li Keqiang will kick off his first official visit to Kazakhstan on Sunday. The two sides are expected to sign about 30 cooperative agreements worth $10 billion during his two-day trip. Li is scheduled to meet Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev, hold the second regular meeting between the China-Kazakhstan heads of government together with his Kazakh...
The Imam at one of Almaty’s biggest mosques gets busy around Ramadan when his Uighur “brothers and sisters” from China flock to the Kazakh city to pray, finding it increasingly difficult to practice Islam at home. As the western Chinese region of Xinjiang grapples with ethnic tensions between Uighurs and Han Chinese, and President Xi Jinping vows to crush separatist activity,...
Editor's note: During his visit to Kazakhstan in September, President Xi Jinping proposed that China and Central Asia join hands to build a Silk Road economic belt to boost cooperation. The idea has been widely echoed in Central Asian countries, becoming an encouraging blueprint for Chinese areas along the Silk Road that has linked Asia and Europe for more than 2,000 years. In...
Kazakhstan’s largest city began life as a Russian fortress. The government is doing all it can to stop it becoming one in future once President Nursultan Nazarbayev’s long rule ends. Almaty, near the Chinese border, was the capital until 1997 when Nazarbayev moved it to Astana in the center of the country. The move was interpreted in part as an effort to bind Kazakhstan’s large...
China (i/ˈtʃaɪnə/; Chinese: 中国; pinyin: Zhōngguó; see also Names of China), officially the People's Republic of China (PRC), is the world's most-populous country, with a population of over 1.3 billion. Covering approximately 9.6 million square kilometres, the East Asian state is the world's second-largest country by land area, and the third- or fourth-largest in total area, depending on the definition of total area.
The People's Republic of China is a single-party state governed by the Communist Party of China. It exercises jurisdiction over 22 provinces, five autonomous regions, four directly controlled municipalities (Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, and Chongqing), and two mostly self-governing special administrative regions (Hong Kong and Macau). Its capital city is Beijing. The PRC also claims Taiwan—which is controlled by the Republic of China (ROC), a separate political entity—as its 23rd province, a claim controversial due to the complex political status of Taiwan and the unresolved Chinese Civil War. The PRC government denies the legitimacy of the ROC.