2014-10~12
http://www.afghanistansun.com/index.php/sid/227162165

China-Afghanistan decide to crackdown on Xinjiang militants - Afghanistan Sun
Beijing, 29 October: China and Afghanistan have agreed to step up crackdown on the training camps of Uighur militants active in China's restive Xinjiang province even as it eyed major investments in the war-torn country's rich minerals and oil sectors.
Official media here reported that leaders of the two countries reached a "new important consensus" to combat the East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), an Uighur separatist group demanding the independence of Xinjiang, bordering Afghanistan and the Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK).
Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani, who arrived here yesterday on his first official visit abroad, held talks with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping and top security officials.
"President Ghani said that the new Afghan government will firmly support China to fight the ETIM," Kong Xuanyou, Director General of the Department of Asian Affairs at the Chinese Foreign Ministry was quoted in the state-run China Daily today.
"The two sides reached a new important consensus on joint efforts in that regard," Mr Kong said without disclosing details.
Mr Ghani, who succeeded Hamid Karzai, told Mr Xi that "Afghanistan will not allow any activities that threaten China's (security) on Afghan territory."
ETIM, an Al Qaeda backed organisation is reported to have training camps in Pakistan's tribal areas as well as in Afghanistan. Several ETIM members were reportedly killed in the air raids conducted by Pakistan in those areas...
Mumbai, March 20 (IANS) Despite their 37-run win over Afghanistan in a World Twenty20 encounter, South Africa skipper Faf du Plessis on Sunday stressed that his team needs to work and improve their bowling specially when it comes to powerplay.
Batting first, the Proteas posted 209/5 in 20 overs, which included crucial knocks from De Villiers (64 off 29), Quinton de Kock (45) and Faf du Plessis (41).
In reply, despite opener Mohammad Shahzad's blistering 19-ball 44 at the start, Afghanistan lost wickets at regular intervals and were bundled out for 172 in 20 overs.
"We need to be better and improve our bowling. Our skill level is letting us down. It is a big challenge for the bowlers in the first six overs. Those are the areas we need to improve. Last match against England bowlers went for plenty in the first six this match also went for runs," Du Plessis said at the post-match press conference.
For South Africa, Chris Morris (4/27), Imran Tahir (2/24), Kyle Abbott (2/36) and Kagiso Rabada (2/37) were the pick of the bowlers.
Praising Morris for his four-wicket haul, the skipper said: "It was not an easy wicket to bowl on. Today Morris showed good discipline and good intensity. There is a lot of learning for me to see how Chris bowled today. It is important for all the bowlers to get back the confidence. Great result for Morris."
Following the team's loss to England in their opening match, speedster Dale Steyn was dropped from the side against Afghanistan.
Asked about the reason behind the inclusion of bowling all-rounder David Weise in place of Steyn, the 31-year-old said: "The thinking behind the wicket is that there is not much swing in the wicket in the first six overs. And as Dale is quite a skiddy bowler, the wicket like this, the thinking was that the wicket won't suit him that much."
"It is not a Mumbai wicket where there is pace and bounce, it just skids through. We wanted to bring a guy like David Weise who can bowl a bit of variation and can also bat at seven or eight when required," du Plessis concluded.

Mumbai, Mar.20 (ANI): South Africa's swashbuckling batsman AB de Villiers smashed a quick-fire half-century before ...
Cape Town - South Africa may have to significantly restructure their team if JP Duminy ...
Cape Town - The Proteas have beaten Afghanistan by 37 runs in a ICC World ...
Cape Town - Lead by a lightning fast 64 by AB de Villiers, the Proteas ...
Miami - In the last comprehensive review of prisoners held at Guantanamo Bay, the US ...
Get the latest Afghanistan Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Afghanistan Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved