2014-10~12
http://theweek.com/speedreads/index/270470/speedreads-al-qaeda-is-suddenly-very-interested-in-china

Al Qaeda is suddenly very interested in China
Bernie Sanders trounces Hillary Clinton in American Democrats abroad primary
SCOTUS just extended the Second Amendment to include stun guns
Here's Mitt Romney's robocall urging GOP voters to back Ted Cruz in Tuesday's contests
Lena Dunham says her support for Hillary Clinton has unleashed 'hostility' from Sanders supporters
Over at The Diplomat, Zachary Keck points out that the inaugural issue of al Qaeda's magazine Resurgence contains quite a few references to China. The communist country has been waging a sometimes brutal crackdown against separatists in Xinjiang, a far western region home to the Muslim minority Uighurs — and al Qaeda is suddenly taking note.
In an article titled "10 Facts About East Turkistan," the terrorist group lists a series of grievances and calls for Xinjiang to be "recovered [into] the shade of the Islamic Caliphate," reports the South China Morning Post. Keck notes that while the article "stops [short] of calling for jihad against China, the point is more directly articulated elsewhere" in the issue. It even asks followers to "disrupt shipping in the Strait of Hormuz and Strait of Malacca" to damage China's economy.
So, what's with al Qaeda's sudden interest in China? There has been an uptick in violence in Xinjiang recently — separatists have been blamed for numerous terrorist attacks and the Chinese government has cracked down harshly — but Keck sees another spark: ISIS. The leader of the ascendant terrorist group mentioned China in a speech in July, and ISIS later included Xinjiang in a map of its imagined caliphate.
New attention on China could also foreshadow a broader "pivot to Asia" on al Qaeda's part. The terrorist group established a branch in India in September, which experts interpreted as al Qaeda trying to regain its influence after being eclipsed in the Middle East by ISIS. Does al Qaeda see Xinjiang as a similar opportunity for growth? Nico Lauricella
President Obama and Raúl Castro jointly addressed the public Monday after they sat down for a meeting Monday morning at the Palace of the Revolution. Castro pressed Obama to end the U.S. embargo, and Obama pushed Castro to respect freedom of speech and assembly.
"We believe that when we share our deepest beliefs and ideas with an attitude of mutual respect, that we can both learn and make the lives of our people better," Obama said.
Before the meeting, Obama attended a wreath-laying ceremony at the memorial for poet José Martí. He will also attend an event for entrepreneurs and a state dinner.
Donald Trump finally admitted that he consults more people than just himself on foreign policy. In a meeting with The Washington Post's editorial board Monday, the Republican presidential frontrunner for the first time named five of the minds that make up his foreign policy team, including Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), who acts as the team's chairman.
"Walid Phares, who you probably know. Ph.D., adviser to the House of Representatives. He's a counter-terrorism expert," Trump said. "Carter Page, Ph.D. George Papadopoulos. He's an oil and energy consultant. Excellent guy. The honorable Joe Schmitz, [was] inspector general at the Department of Defense. General Keith Kellogg. And I have quite a few more. But that's a group of some of the people that we are dealing with. We have many other people in different aspects of what we do. But that's pretty representative group." [The Washington Post]
As far as what these team members are advising him to do, The Washington Post reports that Trump "outlined an unabashedly non-interventionist approach to world affairs." Trump says he plans to share more names "in the coming days."
Read the full story on these five Trump foreign policy team members over at The Washington Post. Becca Stanek
Apple unveiled a new 4-inch iPhone SE on Monday at a town hall in Cupertino, California, calling it the "most powerful 4-inch phone ever." It will retail for $399.
CEO Tim Cook also announced new woven nylon Apple Watch bands, iOS 9.3, a 9.7-inch iPad Pro, new Apple TV features, and CareKit, an initiative to help people develop medical apps. The company slashed the price of the watches less than one year after launch, saying they'll now start at $299.
Cook also addressed Apple's battle with the FBI over unlocking the smartphone of one of the San Bernardino gunmen.
"We need to decide as a nation how much power the government should have over our data and over our privacy," he said. Julie Kliegman
Bernie Sanders trounces Hillary Clinton in American Democrats abroad primary
Hillary Clinton suffered a decisive defeat to Sen. Bernie Sanders among American Democrats living abroad, the Democratic National Committee announced Monday. Clinton lost by a two-to-one margin, with only 31 percent to Sanders' 69 percent. There were 13 delegates up for grabs, nine of which will go to Sanders and four that will go to Clinton.
However, Clinton did cinch three of the group's eight superdelegates, while only one committed to Sanders. Four Democrats Abroad superdelegates remain uncommitted.
The primary was open to all Americans living abroad who were preregistered with the group Democrats Abroad. An estimated 34,570 voters turned out for the 150 voting events around the globe. Becca Stanek
Bernie Sanders trounces Hillary Clinton in American Democrats abroad primary
SCOTUS just extended the Second Amendment to include stun guns
A Supreme Court ruling Monday suggested that women's right to carry stun guns for protection in public falls under the Second Amendment, the Los Angeles Times reports.
In the unanimous opinion, the justices said the Second Amendment is not only relevant to weapons "useful in warfare."
The court's ruling goes against an upheld criminal conviction for a Massachusetts woman who had a stun gun to protect herself from an abusive ex-boyfriend. Massachusetts, along with other states and cities, prohibits people from carrying electronic weapons that can injure people. Julie Kliegman
SCOTUS just extended the Second Amendment to include stun guns
Here's Mitt Romney's robocall urging GOP voters to back Ted Cruz in Tuesday's contests
Mitt Romney's reckoning came over the weekend. After being the Republican establishment's standard-bearer in 2012, declining a 2016 run because of the crowded "mainstream" field, and making an ill-advised anti-Trump speech earlier this month, Romney has been reduced to the previously unthinkable: stumping for Ted Cruz.
In phone calls recorded ahead of Tuesday's GOP caucuses in Utah and primary in Arizona, Romney can be heard urging voters to vote for the Texas senator, but only "because a vote for [Ohio Gov.] John Kasich is a vote for Donald Trump." To defeat Trump, Romney says, "this is a time for Republicans across the spectrum to unite behind Ted":
Romney does espouse Cruz's passionate defense of the Constitution and hawkish instincts, but the call's message really amounts to this: "Vote for him so the other guy doesn't win, and because the guy I really like has no chance." And if that's not the stuff of inspiring democracy, what is? Kimberly Alters
Here's Mitt Romney's robocall urging GOP voters to back Ted Cruz in Tuesday's contests
Lena Dunham says her support for Hillary Clinton has unleashed 'hostility' from Sanders supporters
Actress Lena Dunham said Sunday she has received more backlash for her outspoken support of Hillary Clinton from fellow Democrats than from Republicans.
"I have received more hostility for voting for a qualified female candidate than I have ever received anywhere from the American right wing," she said at a Clinton fundraiser. "The fact that other members of the Democratic Party have spoken to me like I was an ill-informed child for voting for someone who represents everything I think this country should be is outrageous."
Speaking at the same event, actress America Ferrera argued that "there is this narrative about young women not inspired by Hillary Clinton and that is just not the case." Exit polls from early primary states, however, suggest that narrative might be true. In New Hampshire and Iowa, Sanders won more than 8 in 10 youth votes, while a national Wall Street Journal/NBC/Marist College poll in February found Democratic women younger than 45 prefer Sanders by nearly a 30-point margin. More broadly, fully a third of Sanders supporters have said they will not back Clinton in the general election. Bonnie Kristian
Lena Dunham says her support for Hillary Clinton has unleashed 'hostility' from Sanders supporters