2014-10~12
http://www.southeastasiapost.com/index.php/sid/226324929/scat/303b19022816233b

155 Uighur immigrants found in Malaysia apartments - South East Asia Post
KUALA LUMPUR - More than 150 illegal immigrants from China's restive Xinjiang region, including dozens of children, were arrested in a Kuala Lumpur suburb on Friday, Malaysia media reported. The 155 Uighur, who could be seeking political asylum in Malaysia, were found in two apartment units in Taman Bukit Jalil, The New Straits Times (NST) said. Immigration officers, who raided the apartments after a tip-off, said there were 79 adults and 76 children holed up in crowded conditions. Most of the immigrants were sleeping when the police descended on them on Wednesday night, Sin Chew Daily said...
Lima - The United Nation's cultural body Unesco has added 20 new sites to its network of protected biosphere nature reserves, including two in Canada and two in Portugal.
The status was conferred during a two-day meeting in Lima that ended on Saturday, which brought the total number of biosphere reserves to 669 across 120 countries.
In Canada, the Tsa Tue area in the country's Northwest Territories that includes the last pristine arctic lake was added to the list, as was the Beaver Hills region of Alberta, which has a landscape formed by a retreating glacier.
Britain's Isle of Man, located in the Irish Sea in a biologically diverse marine environment, and Mexico's Isla Cozumel were also selected for the network.
And in Portugal, the entire Island of Sao Jorge, the fourth largest in the Azores Archipelago, was designated a reserve in addition to the Tajo River region between Portugal and Spain.
The list of new Unesco biosphere reserves also includes sites in Algeria, Ghana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran, Italy, Kazakhstan, Madagascar, Morocco, Peru, the Philippines and Tanzania.
Of the hundreds of locations on the list, 16 are sites that stretch across more than one country. Spain is the country with the largest number of registered reserves.
During the meeting, nine extensions to existing biosphere reserves were also approved.
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
Geneva 21 March 2016 (WMO) - The year 2015 made history, with shattered temperature records, ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): A complaint has been filed against Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan ...
Mohali, Mar.21 (ANI): After suffering a heart wrenching two-wicket defeat against arch-rival India in World ...
Dhaka, Mar. 21 (ANI): Bangladesh has said the foreigners, who want to avail citizenship here, ...
Get the latest South East Asia Post headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 South East Asia Post - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved