2014-10~12
http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/Thailand-searching-for-scores-of-Uighurs-who-fled-5901805.php

Thailand searching for scores of Uighurs who fled China - SFGate
BEIJING — Thai authorities said Tuesday that they were searching for about 120 ethnic Uighurs who fled China and were detained in southern Thailand by the police earlier this year but escaped this month from a shelter there.
The escapees, almost all women and children, left the shelter in several separate groups this month; 21 have been found, leaving an additional 120 or so at large, said Maj. Gen. Puthishart Aekkashal, deputy police chief of a region in Songkhla province, where the migrants were initially detained in March. At the time, authorities took into custody 198 Uighurs who had entered Thailand voluntarily, the officer said.
“We’re not controlling them,” he said. “Sometimes they just walk out of the shelter. And when they are returned there, they try to walk out again.”
The Uighurs are a mostly Muslim Turkic-speaking people who inhabit the western Chinese region of Xinjiang and are often resistant to rule by the Han, the dominant ethnicity in China. Ethnic violence in the region has resulted in hundreds of deaths this year.
The Uighurs who have been detained in Thailand claim they are Turks and should not be sent back to China. Chinese diplomats have been visiting the detainees and trying to persuade them to return to China, but the Uighurs have continued to insist they are Turks and to ask to be sent to Turkey or Malaysia, the deputy police chief said.
At the same time, human rights advocacy groups, including Human Rights Watch, have been urging Thai officials not to send the Uighurs back to China over fears that the Uighurs will be punished for trying to escape.
Turkey has also been sending officials to meet with the Uighurs. A police chief overseeing immigration issues in Songkhla, Thatchai Pitaneelaboot, said Thai officials were awaiting word from the Turkish Embassy on the nationality of the detainees. But he said employees of the embassy had not visited the detention center recently. “Their staff haven’t contacted us for many months,” he said.
A report Monday by Radio Free Asia, which is financed by the United States government, put the number of recent Uighur escapees from detention in Thailand at more than 100.