2014-10~12
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang-22-Islamic-preachers-sentenced-for-inciting-hatred-32682.html

CHINA Xinjiang 22 Islamic preachers sentenced for inciting hatred
Beijing (AsiaNews) - Authorities in the western
province of Xinjiang have sentenced 22 Islamic
preachers in recent days to
sentences ranging from five to 16 years in prison. Charges against them
include separatism, ethnic hatred
and disturbing the peace.
The verdict was read in public at the People's Court of Kashgar. The area is known for its violent attacks in recent months, which
according to Beijing that are orchestrated by Muslim
separatists.
According to the judiciary report the preachers
include "rogue imams," or those already removed from their mosques and
religious still in office. Ainiwaer
Tuerxun, mayor of Kashgar, said the province is
"plagued by religious extremism" which has "fomented terrorism in the
region."
According to the politician, reading the sentence in public "is a powerful deterrent
that will help stop those who break the law through religion."

Meng Caixia, a teacher, told the South China Morning Post that the problem of
religious extremism "is serious, and is having a profound impact in the area. Some preachers
are involved in this activity, and it is very difficult for them to be open-minded and
accept what they are told".
The
province is one of the most turbulent in all of China. Its Uyghur Muslim
minority, who number about nine million, have long sought independence from
China.
The central government, for
its part, has brought in hundreds of thousands of settlers to make Han Chinese
the dominant ethnic group.
At the same time, it has
severely curtailed Muslim religious worship as well as the teaching of the
local language and culture.
Since 2009 Chinese police
and the military have held the region under a special regime, which Beijing
imposed following clashes that left nearly 200 people
dead. As a
result of various episodes of violence, hundreds of long prison sentences were
imposed and dozens of death penalties were carried out.
Chinese authorities blame
Muslim extremists for the wave of violence. Uyghur exiles claim instead that
Beijing is "exaggerating" the threat of Islamic terrorism to justify repression
against indigenous Uyghurs.
China's Foreign Ministry accused the Uighur activist, released from prison in China in March 2005, of conniving with "known terrorist organizations" striving for the independence of the northern Xinjiang province.
AsiaNews spoke to Josephine, one of hundreds of Christians from Al-Hasakah, who spent a year in the hands of the Islamic State group. She talked about psychological suffering, conversion attempts, and separation from her male relatives. She survived thanks to her faith. Her mother Caroline, a Caritas official, is the only one in her family to have been spared the ordeal. She also negotiated their release with IS, and gave a Jihadi copies of the Bible. Now she hopes “to meet the pope” with her entire family.
Sister Rani Maria was killed in 1995, stabbed 54 times. The murderer was a radical Hindu, incited by village leaders, who wanted to stop the nun's activities in favor of tribal poor. The path "that led me to forgive Samunder Singh has not been easy, but now he's my brother." Instead, "my mother said once: 'I would kiss his hands, because on them there is the blood of my daughter'." The exchange of the Indian bracelet that celebrates love between siblings; the moment of encounter with the victim's mother.

 
2003 © All rights reserved - AsiaNews C.F. e P.Iva: 00889190153 - GLACOM®
Copyright ÂŠ 2003 AsiaNews C.F. 00889190153 All rights reserved. Content on this site is made available for personal, non-commercial use only. You may not reproduce, republish, sell or otherwise distribute the content or any modified or altered versions of it without the express written permission of the editor. Photos on AsiaNews.it are largely taken from the internet and thus considered to be in the public domain. Anyone contrary to their publication need only contact the editorial office which will immediately proceed to remove the photos.