2014-10~12
http://www.intercooleronline.com/headlines/fifteen-killed-in-xinjiang-region-attack-in-western-china/146519/

Fifteen Killed in Xinjiang Region Attack in Western China - Intercooler Financial

 Posted by David Larson on Nov 29th, 2014 // No Comments
In the troubled Xinjiang region in western China an attack killed 15 people while injuring another 14, said state media on Saturday. This is just the latest wave of violence in the area that has killed dozens of people over the last year.
Xinhua the official news agency reported that Friday’s attack was at a street where many food vendors are set up. It is the same region where a series of deadly attacks this past July killed 96 people.
The news portal Tianshan said Friday’s assailants wielded knives, explosives and one or more vehicles. Xinhua reported 11 of the 15 killed had been assailants.
Shache county police would not provide information regarding the incident.
Xinjiang has experienced repeated violence during the last year as members from the Muslim Uighur minority group claim repressive rule by the Chinese government.
China’s central government blocks attempts regularly to confirm independently the reports from state media of the Xinjiang region ethnic violence.
The Uighur group says that police have used deadly force indiscriminately against its people who are protesting the policies of the government in this western region of China.
The Uyghur American Association based in the U.S. disputed the accounts by the Chinese government of the attacks in July that described rampaging mobs running through towns with axes and knives targeting the Han Chinese who are the majority.
The association in the U.S. said that police had opened fire instead on the people what had been protesting a crackdown in security on the Muslims during their Ramadan, killing over 20.
In October, in a court in Xinjiang, 12 people were sentenced to death for the attacks in July and given death sentences with reprieves of two years given to 15 others.
Authorities in China said their security crackdown across the Xinjiang region broke up 115 terrorist gangs prior to them unleashing more violence.
State media in China reported as many as 175 deaths over the last six months during eight violent attacks in Xinjiang.