2014-10~12
http://www.businessinsider.com.au/r-hong-kong-student-leaders-urge-protesters-to-regroup-in-heart-of-city-2014-10

Hong Kong Protesters Remain In The City Center Amid Warnings Of A Crackdown - Business Insider
REUTERS/Bobby YipA mainland Chinese visitor looks on in front of policemen during a blockage by pro-democracy protesters on a main road at the Mongkok shopping district in Hong Kong October 5, 2014.
HONG KONG (Reuters) - Pro-democracy protesters remained in a tense stalemate with the Hong Kong governmentlate on Sunday after authorities warned they were determined to get the Asian financial hub back to work after more than a week of unrest.
Some protesters left the Mong Kok area of the city, pulling back from the scene of recent clashes with those who back the pro-Beijing government. But many hundreds more remained, disputing reports on social media that their leaders had called for them to leave.
"We're afraid there may be a police crackdown, so we came here to support. The more people we have, the harder it is for the police to clear," said Lester Leung, 25, who said he was ready to stay on the streets all night.
Fearing a crackdown as city leaders have called for the streets to be cleared so businesses, schools and civil servants could resume on Monday, other protesters who have paralyzed parts of the former British colony with mass sit-ins also pulled back from outside Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying's office.
By late Sunday evening, Reuters reporters estimated around 4,000 protesters had gathered in Admiralty, the main area they have occupied over the past week at the heart of the government district - far fewer than rallied there the previous day.
Over the past week, tens of thousands of protesters have demanded that Leung step down and that China allow them the right to vote for a leader of their choice in 2017 elections.
Protesters and authorities are currently having preliminary discussions about hwat happens next.
“A dialogue is not a compromise,” Alex Chow, secretary-general of the Hong Kong Federation of Students, told protesters. “We will start arranging talks with the government, because we understand that there are people in both the government and here who want to solve society’s problems. We will not back down." 
REUTERS/Carlos Barria Protesters install a statue with a yellow umbrella as other demonstrators block the main street to the financial Central district outside of the government headquarters building in Hong Kong October 5, 2014.
The pro-democracy camp mixed defiance with pragmatism in the cramped streets of Mong Kok, a gritty, working class neighborhood where scuffles broke out between protesters and supporters of the government on Friday and Saturday - and where police used pepper spray and batons in sporadic clashes early on Sunday.
"We want everyone to leave because we don't want to see any more bloody conflicts ... we will come back again if the government doesn't respond (to calls for direct talks)," said Tang Sin-tung, a 16-year-old high school student who said she represents some of the protest volunteers in Mong Kok.
She said around 20 of the 30 or so volunteers in that area would leave and join the rally at Admiralty, though some may choose to stay. Tang alleged that some female volunteers had been molested and faced sexual harassment by some of those opposed to the protest movement.
"We will be back. Fight till the end," some of the protesters chanted. "Mong Kok, Mong Kok, never retreat," shouted those remaining, cheered on by around 200 supporters.
Many residents have criticized the police handling of the recent unrest in Mong Kok, a traditional stronghold of Hong Kong's notorious organized crime gangs, or Triads. Police have had to defend their tactics and denied allegations of any collaboration between the security forces and gang members.
"We've been pepper-sprayed. We've been tear-gassed. We've seen Triads. Now we're not afraid of anything," said Kit Lee, 41, who was among those opting to stay in Mong Kok.
The South China Morning Post reports that several current and former officials have told protsters to disperse for their own safety, as a crackdown may be imminent before Monday morning.
"If you stay, there is a risk to your safety," Hong Kong University vice-chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson said. "Please leave now: you owe it to your loved ones to put your safety above all considerations." 
"No one would like to see the students getting hurt," former Chief Justice Andrew Li Kwok-nang said. "I sincerely urge the students to leave immediately. Otherwise there is a danger to their safety."
"I call on students and other protesters to withdraw immediately to ensure their personal safety," former chief secretary Henry Tang Ying-yen said. "The best solution to problems is dialogue, not stand-off."
"Several indications have pointed to the high possibility that the situation will become very dire in the next 12 hours," Professor Leonard Cheng Kwok-hon, president of Lingnan University, said."I urge all students and staff to leave all protest areas immediately for their safety and not make your families worried."
REUTERS/Bobby YipPolicemen stand in front of a tent set up by pro-democracy protesters with a banner supporting students, blocking a main road at Mongkok shopping district in Hong Kong October 5, 2014.
Facing a government deadline on Monday to clear the streets of protesters so that Hong Kong's schools, businesses and government offices can return to work, the protest groups have said they would dismantle barricades to key government buildings to allow civil servants to get to work.
Businesses, shop owners and taxi drivers have added to the pressure on the protesters to end their occupation and disperse. The government said all secondary schools in Central, Western and Wan Chai districts would re-open on Monday, but primary schools and kindergartens would remain closed.
The student activists, established protest groups and many ordinary Hong Kong residents present Beijing with one of its biggest political challenges since it crushed pro-democracy protests in and around Tiananmen Square in 1989. But they remained defiant in saying they would not call off their action.
China's ruling Communist Party leadership in Beijing has dismissed the Hong Kong protests as illegal, but appears to have left it to Leung and his government to find a solution. As the protests have ebbed and flowed, they have caused uncertainty for businesses and triggered a more than 7 percent drop in the value of shares on the Hong Kong stock exchange in the past month.
Financial Secretary John Tsang wrote in a blog on Sunday that Hong Kong was at a critical moment and its "financial foundations and core values have inevitably been shaken."
Allan Zeman, a member of the 1,200-strong committee that selects candidates for Hong Kong's top job, said the protesters had made their point, but businesses, particularly those paying high rents, were being hit. "If they carry on too long, you're asking for trouble," he told Reuters.
"At some point you need to open the roads. You're choking off the economy."
Protest leaders, who earlier pulled out of planned talks with the government because of the way the police handled Friday's unrest, held out the prospect of rejoining the dialogue if policing improved.
They also braced for a potential showdown with a government determined to get Hong Kong back to work on Monday.
"We must take care in the coming days. In the face of violence we must remain steadfast and brave. This is only the calm before the storm, but the Hong Kong people here with us ... proves our strength," Alex Chow, leader of theHong Kong Federation of Students, said over the weekend.
REUTERS/Bobby YipAnti-Occupy Central protesters stand behind a police cordon on Nathan Road at Hong Kong's Mongkok shopping district October 3, 2014, demanding the tents set up by pro-democracy protesters to be demolished.
China's state-run People's Daily said in a commentary on Sunday that there had been misunderstandings about the democratic process.
"This is not a struggle between democracy and non-democracy, but merely different understandings on the realization and implementation methods of democracy. In the final analysis, the central government is the most powerful supporter of democracy in Hong Kong," the newspaper said.
Facing separatist unrest in far-flung Tibet and Xinjiang, Beijing is standing firm on Hong Kong, fearful that calls for democracy there could spread to the mainland.
Bao Tong, the most senior Chinese official jailed over the 1989 Tiananmen protests, said today's demonstrators inHong Kong should "take a break". In a phone interview, he told Reuters he was worried that recent violence "could give people excuses."
"I don't believe the protesters will engage in violent activities, but no one can guarantee that others will not use violence against the demonstrators," he said.
"The most important thing is for tomorrow. This problem cannot be solved now. What (they) really want now is universal suffrage. That is not an easy matter."
"As for the goals that have not been achieved, they need further persistence, tenacity and adherence - so that's why they should rest now."
(Additional reporting by Yimouu Lee, Twinnie Siu, Elzio Barreto, Charlie Zhu, Alexandra Harney, Clare Baldwin, Joseph Campbell, Donny Kwok, James Pomfret, Bobby Yip, Irene Jay Liu, Farah Master, Diana Chan, Kinling Lo and Venus Wu in HONG KONG, and Sui-Lee Wee in BEIJING; Writing by Ian Geoghegan, Anne Marie Roantree and Jeremy Laurence; Editing by Kim Coghill)
Buying vs. leasing a car: what to keep in mind
3 types of insurance that can protect your family for years to come