2014-10~12
http://www.malaysiasun.com/index.php/sid/226324929/scat/48cba686fe041718

155 Uighur immigrants found in Malaysia apartments - Malaysia Sun
KUALA LUMPUR - More than 150 illegal immigrants from China's restive Xinjiang region, including dozens of children, were arrested in a Kuala Lumpur suburb on Friday, Malaysia media reported. The 155 Uighur, who could be seeking political asylum in Malaysia, were found in two apartment units in Taman Bukit Jalil, The New Straits Times (NST) said. Immigration officers, who raided the apartments after a tip-off, said there were 79 adults and 76 children holed up in crowded conditions. Most of the immigrants were sleeping when the police descended on them on Wednesday night, Sin Chew Daily said...
Kuala Lumpur, March 20 (IANS) Malaysian officials said on Sunday that two pieces of suspected debris of the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 have arrived in Australia for verification.
Both pieces of debris arrived in Australia on Sunday and the verification process would commence in Canberra on Monday by an international investigation team, Malaysian Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai said in a statement.
Assistance would be provided by experts from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), the Department of Civil Aviation Malaysia (DCA), Malaysia Airlines and Boeing to verify the origins, he said.
Both pieces of debris were discovered in Mozambique. One of the pieces was found by South African holiday makers and was brought back to their home country.
A Malaysian team retrieved the debris from South African authorities, said Liow.
The other piece which was also discovered recently in the nearby French overseas Reunion Island was said to be unlikely from the missing flight.
A wing part called flaperon washed ashore to the Reunion Island last year remained the only confirmed debris from MH370 so far.
Flight MH370 disappeared on March 8, 2014 enroute from Kuala Lumpur for Beijing with 239 people on board.
A joint search in South Indian Ocean, where the flight presumably had ended its journey, has yet to found its wreckage.

Los Angeles - Anti-Donald Trump protesters blocked a major thoroughfare on Saturday in Arizona in ...
Sydney - Two pieces of debris found in Mozambique have arrived in Australia for experts ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Hockey India (HI) on Monday picked a young squad for ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 21 (IANS) Malaysia's education ministry on Monday ordered all schools in Kedah ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 20 (IANS) Malaysian officials said on Sunday that two pieces of suspected ...
Get the latest Malaysia Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Malaysia Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved