2014-10~12
http://inserbia.info/today/2014/10/india-to-hold-joint-counter-terror-drills-with-china/

India To Hold Joint Counter-Terror Drills With China | InSerbia News
India and China are planning to hold joint counter-terrorism exercises in an attempt to build trust and manage differences between them. According to sources close to the Narendra Modi government, New Delhi has accepted Beijing’s request to hold the joint exercises in November away from Pakistan-China border as China shares close ties with Pakistan.
Addressing a press conference in the Indian capital on Friday, senior official of India’s National Security Advisory Board Jayadeva Ranade said that the maneuvers will be held weeks after the Indian and Chinese soldiers confronted each other near the de facto Sino-Indian border in the western Himalayas. The two Asian neighbours have accused each other of building roads and observations posts in the disputed territory. “The exercises are confidence-building measures. It is in everyone’s interest. It does not mean anyone is conceding anything,” stressed Ranade.
The row between the two rivals in the Chumar sector of Ladakh erupted ahead of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to New Delhi. During their meeting, the Chinese president and the Indian premier agreed to boost bilateral commercial ties and resolve all outstanding issues through peaceful negotiations.
A senior officer of the Indian Army, too, confirmed the news that India and China will hold counter-terror drills in November, saying: “China had agreed to it initially, but then they opted for a change because the border got hot.” He also said that Armies of the two countries will field 103 personnel each for the ‘hand-in-hand’ maneuvers to be held in the western Indian city of Pune. According to the officer, the drills will involve various scenarios, including recapturing a border post taken over by terrorists.
Meanwhile, a top Chinese official has said that the Asian giant is facing a serious threat from extremists especially in Xinjiang region. These extremists have received training in Pakistan and Afghanistan. At the same time, he claimed that the Chinese and Indian Armies are very much capable to tackle the threat of terrorism.
Srikanth Kondapalli, a ‘China’ specialist at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi, has said: “The India-China joint operations are meant to open a channel of communication between soldiers at the medium- and low-levels. It builds a bit of trust, especially after the Chumar incident.”