2014-10~12
http://www.malaysiasun.com/index.php/sid/228037601

Dismal Conditions Push Uyghurs to Escape From Thai Facility - Malaysia Sun
Poor conditions at a government social shelter in southern Thailand have forced more than 100 Uyghurs to escape after nearly eight months of detention in the Southeast Asian nation to which they had fled from northwestern China's restive Xinjiang region, an escapee said.
The mostly women and children who escaped in early November were part of more than 300 Uyghurs discovered during a raid on a suspected people-smuggling camp in a rubber plantation in Thailand's Songkhla province near the border with Malaysia.
When Thai immigration authorities discovered the group in March, they suspected them to be Uyghurs fleeing northwestern China and declared them to be illegal immigrants, although reports said some of them claimed to be Turkish.
Nearly 170 woman and children were placed in a government-run shelter in Songkhla, while the men were held in immigration detention centers in various locations until their nationalities could be verified, according to the reports.
About 20 of those who fled had been recaptured, according to a source.
"Life is so hard [there]," one of the women who escaped from the shelter told RFA's Uyghur Service. "The food is bad, and [portions are] reduced day by day. There was no one who didn't get scabies there. They [camp authorities] would not take us to the hospitals."
"There were always Chinese agents coming there and threatening to take us back, so we were scared. We decided that instead of returning to China and risking our lives there, we would escape.
"We thought it was better to die than to be sent back to China. We climbed over the walls and sneaked out the door ... Nobody, no country, is showing an interest in our situation or is concerned about us, so if we were deported to China, they [Chinese authorities] would eat us alive."
The more than 100 who escaped were mostly women and children, and included only five or six men, said the woman who declined to give her name or location.
Authorities fear that some of the escapees may have fallen victim to a human-trafficking ring, according to reports.
Of those who escaped, about 21 women and children have been captured, the woman said.
"They cannot go anywhere now," she said. "They are living under worse conditions [than before]."
Rights groups accuse the Chinese authorities of heavy-handed rule in Xinjiang, including violent police raids on Uyghur households, restrictions on Islamic practices, and curbs on the culture and language of the Uyghur people, forcing many to flee overseas.
A spike in violence in the Xinjiang region, home to millions of mostly Muslim Uyghurs, has left hundreds dead during the last two years. China has blamed the violence on terrorists and Islamist insurgents seeking to establish an independent state.
Many Uyghurs who were repatriated from the various countries to which they had fled have been punished.
U.S.-based Human Rights Watch has pointed out that the Chinese government frequently accuses Uyghurs, especially those seeking asylum, of being terrorists or separatists without substantial proof.
The woman who spoke to RFA said those detained in Thailand had been told that a Muslim community was helping out by providing food, but that they never received it.
Sek Wannametee, director-general of Thailand's Department of Information, said Monday that no decision had yet been made whether to return the Uyghurs to China, the reported.
The Uyghurs first had to undergo several immigration procedures, including nationality verification, he said.
"The nationality verification is ongoing," he was quoted as saying. "Thailand insists on respecting human rights."
When the refugees were apprehended, their nationality could not be confirmed.? But U.S.-based Uyghur activists identified them as Uyghurs, a Turkic-speaking, mostly Muslim minority group from China's Xinjiang region, according to a report.
Thailand's Deputy Prime Minister Prawit Wongsuwon said he believed that Chinese authorities would not mistreat them if they were repatriated, the reported.
Qin Jian, China's consul in Songkhla, said the refugees had not cooperated with Chinese authorities, including the verification of their nationality. As long as the Uyghurs did not have a criminal record, China would not prosecute them, he said, according to reports.
The Uyghur American Association in Washington, D.C. has urged the Thai government to allow the Uyghurs access to the United Nations' refugee agency to submit asylum requests.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Kuala Lumpur, March 20 (IANS) Malaysian officials said on Sunday that two pieces of suspected debris of the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 have arrived in Australia for verification.
Both pieces of debris arrived in Australia on Sunday and the verification process would commence in Canberra on Monday by an international investigation team, Malaysian Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai said in a statement.
Assistance would be provided by experts from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), the Department of Civil Aviation Malaysia (DCA), Malaysia Airlines and Boeing to verify the origins, he said.
Both pieces of debris were discovered in Mozambique. One of the pieces was found by South African holiday makers and was brought back to their home country.
A Malaysian team retrieved the debris from South African authorities, said Liow.
The other piece which was also discovered recently in the nearby French overseas Reunion Island was said to be unlikely from the missing flight.
A wing part called flaperon washed ashore to the Reunion Island last year remained the only confirmed debris from MH370 so far.
Flight MH370 disappeared on March 8, 2014 enroute from Kuala Lumpur for Beijing with 239 people on board.
A joint search in South Indian Ocean, where the flight presumably had ended its journey, has yet to found its wreckage.

Los Angeles - Anti-Donald Trump protesters blocked a major thoroughfare on Saturday in Arizona in ...
Sydney - Two pieces of debris found in Mozambique have arrived in Australia for experts ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Hockey India (HI) on Monday picked a young squad for ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 21 (IANS) Malaysia's education ministry on Monday ordered all schools in Kedah ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 20 (IANS) Malaysian officials said on Sunday that two pieces of suspected ...
Get the latest Malaysia Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Malaysia Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved