2014-10~12
http://www.dawn.com/news/1150190/

China's Urumqi bans Islamic veil, sparking rights concerns - World - DAWN.COM
BEIJING: The capital of China's far western Xinjiang has banned the wearing of Islamic veils in public, the regional government said on Thursday, in a move experts worry could spark more unrest in the troubled region.
The restriction comes as China is stepping up curbs on religious clothing amid increasing nervousness about Islamist extremism. Beijing blames Islamist separatists for several deadly bomb and knife attacks that have killed hundreds of people over the past two years or so.
Many Xinjiang experts say the outlawing of veils and the heavy-handed enforcement of the rules would further stigmatise the region's minority Uighurs.
Uighurs have traditionally followed a moderate form of Islam, but many have begun adopting practices more commonly seen in Saudi Arabia or Pakistan, such as full-face veils for women, as China has intensified a security crackdown in recent years.
The veil ban was “considered and approved” by the Urumqi parliament's Standing Committee on Wednesday, the official news website of the Xinjiang government said.
It is scheduled to come into force after review by the Xinjiang parliament's Standing Committee before it is formally announced, the website Tianshan.net, reported.
Take a look: Europe’s rights court upholds France’s ban on veil
Xinjiang, home to the Uighur people who speak a Turkic language, has been beset for years by violence that the government blames on Islamist militants or separatists.
James Leibold, an expert on China's ethnic policy from Melbourne's La Trobe University, said the ban on the veils would make them “more popular as a symbol of resistance and assertion of ethno-national identity”.
“The Party has drawn a one-to-one link between these styles of head, face and body covering and religious extremist thought and violence,” said Leibold, who is researching anti-veiling practices in Xinjiang.
“It's a very crude and counterproductive way of trying to deal with the problem of terrorism.” Exiles and many rights groups say the real cause of the unrest is China's heavy-handed policies, including curbs on Islam and the culture and language of the Uighurs.
Last month, Xinjiang said it has banned the practice of religion in government buildings and people will be prohibited from wearing or forcing others to wear clothes or logos associated with religious extremism, in a package of regulations aimed at combating separatism.
In August, Karamay, a northwestern city in Xinjiang, banned people with head scarves, veils and long beards from boarding buses.
Lets the Pakistani's views on this. I still remember the reactions to the French banning the veil.
The Master is acting against basic doctrine of Pak.What will Lakhvi,Saeed and likes of him do.More important, what will Pak govt. will do about its all weather friend.
Best option for Pakistan foreign policy: Blame it on Indians and Americans for this decision of China.
Response from State Actors and Non-State Actors of Pakistan = Dead Silence.
Best friend can do anything we will not speak..right, before they were silent on USA which turn now most hated country.
Ladies and Gentleman, what you hear is, loud and defening Silence of hypocrates.
Good decision.....human emancipation is incomplete without the emancipation of the women.
These countries make cruel rules and enforce the Muslims to assume and adopt these rules so why we are hesitant to formulate and assume our rules according to our religion in our country.
Wrong step by China. Pakistan should behind the scene, convince China that they need to give more religious freedom to Uighurs .
For all those Indian trolls here, as a Muslim and a Pakistani , I condemn this action by China. Being an all weather friend does not mean that everything China does is approved of by us.
@zak First serious comment by Zak, just try it with China..you will get nice responce from china..haha
its their country - let them do what they want to.
It's China ' s internal matter. Extremists can be blamed as they have been creating trouble in the restive Xinjiang province. Extremist ideology is being prop up on the behest of foreign countries.
Sparking rights concerns??? Where were these concerns when several EU countries banned Islamic veils one after another? Why China is only one to be accused?
Want to kknow the reactions of hafiz saeed ,zaid Hamid etc
Pakistani government MUST use the good standings with Beijing to counter these draconian laws.
Pakistani people and government including is singing China's songs....They call China, all weather friend. So all is Ok, as long as its China, from Pakistani point of view, China is still best friend. It does not matter even if this regime is abusing/slaughtering Muslims
I believe it is good for women. When I see fully covered women in the morning walk for fresh air which I frequent, I feel sorry for them. The accompanying man has all the fresh air he wants.
Extreme measures bring extreme retaliation. Majority should not be punished for sins committed by a group of people. Otherwise, you will also put the majority on the path of extremism. If Islamist were involved, they should be tried, convicted, and penalized. Banning the majority does not help any one.
Firstly France banned Veil, now China. China reportedly discouraging namaz also. Slowly other non muslim countries compelled to follow the same. Where is hardliners of Pakistan who condemns all such action.
@zak instead of worrying about China, perhaps Pakistan can work to give more religious freedom to its own minorities?
Pakistan pretend to be 'rehnuma' of Muslims.. Why no comment from governmetn of Pakistan over this act of China.
Everyone has right to follow the way they want to !!
I think this is a good action by China. In the current scenario it veils should be banned due to security concerns.
People need to grow up and rationalise instead of blindly following social norms.
This is the height of brutality. We read many news about this type of cruelty for muslims in china. Companies don't allow muslims to fast in Ramadan and we still say china is our friend. Muslims should immediately migrate from that city to save their emaan
The Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia recently declared there is no need of Islamic veils. Subject closed and China is fair in what they are doing.
@JusSayin Today,Zak makes no pretence of being subjugated by USA,Tommorrow he makes no pretences of enduring insults being heaped by CHINA.In doing so he pats himself of being virtuous and brave.On the contrary he finds extremely insulting and unpatriotic in agreeing to name a road on Bhaghatsing,
Dawn - Why is my comment not published? Is that because it will annoy your Indian readers? You need to be impartial in publishing comments and also pay attention to the rubbish that you allow from the Indian readers,
@Bachabassi - You will hear it loud and clear if Dawn ends it biased behavior and start publishing comments. Until that happens, you can enjoy the solo show and all the space that Dawn has provided to the Indian readers.
@Mehtab But then why cry against French ban of Veil?
@Abdullah Companies don't allow Muslims to fast in Ramdan and how much such rights are given to Non-Muslims in Islamic countries?
@Indian Trolls this is a pakistan national newspaper created by the founder of the nation who carved us our country and this newspaper is doing fair reporting be it fried or foe as it is meant too..so your point is what?
If one county can bring people from medieval to modern age, it is China. They can and they should for the sake of humanity.
Where are the mullahs on streets with sticks and stones?
Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones.
veil is not a religious requirement and i did not see any man wearing a veil. Muslim woman should be treated with respect
on equal terms and China is trying to give them the same rights as men enjoy there.
I am a Muslim and would like to say openly that any measure which help stop nonsense of extremism is welcome.
I hope our government shows some grit and condemns this ban by China in the strongest terms. I truly hope we find this action "deplorable".
@Mamata_Begam our reactions are displayed, and we do not agree with it. Pakistani's are not hypocrites, who talk about democracy and kill and oppress nations.
no surprise when CHINA could ban FASTING during ramadan!
not even a semblance of a protest from pakisthan! had it happened in inida??[india [ being a true domacratic,] will not do it .It is another matter!
China is communist country (although the Elites in China have everything as elites in Capitalist society), Chins is bullying porr minorities. If a ordinary Chinease woman has a right to wers short skirt, then every other girl should have a right to wear anything they want..
Replace 'china' with 'India' in this news article and it will suddenly be a very big deal
Meanwhile the people in the rest of China have been covering up their heads, nose, mouth and faces as winter and terrible pollution sets in. So clearly this isn't based on security perception, rather just because they can.
@Zak dude do you have any idea what you are writing here????? or just for the heck of it you keep on writing without making any sense of any of your comments.
It's a shame that a government does not respect its citizens religious values. This coming from China, which is known to be a developed country is really disappointing.
The Pakistan obsession of Indians is hilarious . Indian trolls are forever suffering from a deep rooted inferiority complex and hence tend to show hollow aggression all the time. And as for what Pakistanis feel about it's all weather friends comments ...the issue has nothing to do with being all all weather friend or an all weather enemy. Veil is the woman's personal choice and has nothing to do with in which country she is in. 
As a Muslim and a Pakistani , I am deeply offended at what has happened in China . Being an all weather friend does not mean that I would justify everything China does .
@Mamata_Begam Oh you'll get enough 'reactions' ; the question is , are you capable of judging the reactions neutrally , I don't think so.
@being human I am sure you do . Want to know reactions of Afghan Taliban as well?
@AH You have really nailed it . I am sure Dawn gets a lot of comments from Pakistanis that are not in-line with it's "liberal" and "secularist" outlook . That's why the comments section is mostly a one way traffic from India and Indians are under the false impression that Pakistanis have nothing to say.
@Pats Are you even capable of countering the responses from common Pakistani citizens ?
@excerciseyourbrain What we hear loud and clear are the selective responses of the Indian trolls. They completely ignore the comments that are not in their favor. Contrary to what the Indians would like to believe , a lot of Pakistanis have been offended by the incident in China and expressed it here , but trust an Indian to see only what he deems fit to serve his or her agenda.
China is right to ban it. China has no state religion and no reason why someone should wear this
It is indeed very gloomy and disheartening news.Thanks to the extremists and radicals who tarnished the beautiful image of our religion Islam. The need of the hour for whole Muslim Ummah is to pray to our Allah Almighty to guide us and show us the right path. We should also ponder, we have Quran and a complete Shariah with us and here we are, shattered and depreciated, through out the world. Then what is lacking!

PIA’s fate to be decided at joint sitting of parliament


Pakistani scientist’s parents celebrate son’s feat in their dilapidated home


Disenfranchisement of women remains a hot issue in KP 


Pakistan fail to show up as Dhoni lauds India’s turnaround kings


From Cairo, It’s Saturday Night Live — without politics, sex or religion
