2014-10~12
http://www.traveldailymedia.com/215009/high-speed-rail-arrives-in-xinjiang/

High-speed rail arrives in Xinjiang | Travel Daily Asia
Airport Authority Hong Kong (AA) announced that Hong Kong International Airport (HKIA) handled 64.7 million…
This week, Travel Daily Asia chats with Adrian Ee, the newly-appointed general manager of the Marriott…
Two years after MH370 went missing and key questions remain unanswered: Where is the plane and what happened…
The energy of Bangkok’s Sukhumvit area is infectious, attracting tourists looking to explore the rich…
Pattaya is well renowned for its ability to blend natural beauty with buzzing nightlife, shopping and…
China has opened the first ever high-speed rail service in Xinjiang, the restive region in the country’s remote northwest.
The latest section of China’s fast-expanding high-speed railway network launched on Sunday, connecting Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang, with Hami, 530km away in the east of the region.
This is the first stage of a longer 1,776km line that will connect Urumqi with Lanzhou, the capital of neighbouring Gansu province, and eventually the rest of China. Trains will be able to travel at speeds of up to 200kph.
Xinhua spoke to a passenger onboard the inaugural service. Sun Jiding first travelled between Lanzhou and Urumqi in 1983.
“I was told by railway staff that it will take only nine hours to Lanzhou from Urumqi once the whole high-speed railway is running at the end of this year,” Sun told the Chinese news agency. “It’s just unbelievable, compared with that 54-hour journey I first took.”
Construction on the new line began in November 2009 and is expected to cost CNY143.5 billion (US$23.4bn) once fully complete. It will run through Gansu and Qinghai provinces, before entering Xinjiang. At altitudes of up to 3,600 metres above sea level, it is the highest high-speed rail line in the world.
By 2017, travellers from Beijing will be able to reach Urumqi in 16 hours – down from the currently 40 hours – once all high-speed rail links between the cities are completed.
The Xinjiang high-speed rail line forms part of China’s broader efforts to improve infrastructure and accessibility to its remote western regions.