2014-10~12
http://www.worldbulletin.net/art-culture/148095/china-ruins-kashgars-historical-texture-with-oppressive-policies-against-uighurs

China ruins Kashgar’s historical texture with oppressive policies against Uighurs | Art & Culture | Worldbulletin News
The urban renewal project of Kashgar, one of most important centers of Turkish history, launched by Chinese government in 2015 and aimed to be accomplished in 2015 has ruined severely to historical heritage of the province. There are several claims surrounding around that Chinese authorities see this project as an opportunity to systematically destroy the historical city’s texture and cultural heritage.
 Located on piedmont of Tian Shan, Kashgar with its traditional bazaars, architecture and historical streets makes one feel that he is having a historical tour back to centuries ago. 
 Well-known Turkish Islamic thinkers like Yusuf Has Hacib and Mahmood al-Kashgari had lived in in the city where their tombs are still in the border of Kashgar which makes the city still important for all Muslims. Kashgar is now in Xinjiang autonomous region.
 Kashgar was severely harmed after the earthquake in 2003, thousands lost their homes. This pushed Chinese government to take the initiative for urban renewal and eight ministries prepared a five-year renovation plan which includes destruction of 49083 houses in 28 different neighbors. After 2010, destruction machines have become indispensable parts of Xinjiang neighbors. So far, 65 thousand houses were eliminated and 220 thousand Muslim Uighurs have been forced to migrate.
 Although there are serious claims that the plan has ruined the city’s historical heritage, Chinese officials are of the opinion that the renovation plan does not harm the city. However, public opinion in Xinjiang considers the plan another plot against Muslim minority. 
The ancient al-Qarawiyyin Library in Fez, founded in 859 by a woman, is the oldest working library in the world, holding ancient manuscripts that date as far back as 12 centuries and will reopen in May after a major renovation.
The absence of Muslim characters in children's books will take a new turn with publishing house Simon & Schuster to include a
Three Muslim graves have recently been discovered in Nimes, France and the rituali burial show cultural diversity in early medieval France.
The New York Public Library’s Digital Collections has recently made more than 187,000 digitized, public-domain items more easily accessible in the highest resolution available.
A new Barbie doll for mini Hijab fashion has taken social media off spectacularly with pictures of the doll with full-length dresses, veils and flowing abayas were posted by 24-year-old medical science student Haneefa Adam.
The show comprises the pieces of an idea that represents the desire of every individual living and working in a city
Lake Cildir in Turkey has an elevation of 1,900ft and is surrounded by a mountainous region
A campaign has been launched in order to recognize people from various backgrounds who have supported each other irrespective of cultural and religious backgrounds. Abdol Hossein Sardari is one such Muslim who risked his life to rescue thousands of Jews during the Holocaust
A 4,000 year old shipwreck belonging to the Minoan civilization has been found in Turkish waters along with 20 submerged harbors and architectural remains, 25 berthages and over 400 anchors dating from the Bronze Age to the Ottoman period.
Month-long sting leads to police recovering Woman Dressing her Hair, stolen from collector in New York
In ancient belief, men playing a single-stringed violin are cursed, with the instrument making a comeback amongst the Tuareg women in Algeria
Iran’s Cultural Heritage, Handicrafts and Tourism Organization (ICHHTO) on Wednesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Louvre, one of the world’s largest museums
Hong Wu a Chinese Emperor in the fourteenth century who built mosques as well as having an army inclusive of several Muslim generals
With the onset of winter in Istanbul, stray animals more than ever need a warm place to stay. Imam Mustafa Efe has ordered the administration staff of his mosque to keep their doors open to keep them warm.
An international team of researchers have said on Sunday that analysis will soon begin on cosmic particles collected inside Egypt's Bent Pyramid that could provide insight as to how it they were built.
Chinese police raided 148 points in Muslim Xinjiang in 2014
China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing'
Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

UN sees need for space travel rules within 5 years

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
