2014-10~12
http://newsdaily.com/2014/12/sensitive-topics-off-agenda-as-chinas-li-goes-overseas/

World News | NewsDaily
BRUSSELS (Reuters) – The only suspected participant in Nov. 13 Paris attacks to be captured alive has been cooperating with police investigators and is “worth his weight in gold”, his lawyer said on Monday. Belgium’s Interior Minister, Jan Jambon, said the country was on high alert for a possible revenge attack following the capture of 26-year-old Salah Abdeslam in a…
BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) – Argentina and the United States will resume sharing intelligence on money flows to bolster the fight against drug gangs and organized crime, an Argentine official said on Monday, days ahead of a state visit by U.S. President Barack Obama. Information sharing between the Argentine and U.S. financial intelligence units was suspended last year, during the final…
GENEVA (Reuters) – The fate of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is not part of the negotiations with the opposition, the head of the Syrian government’s delegation said on Monday, insisting that counter-terrorism efforts remained the priority for Damascus. Bashar Ja’afari, speaking to reporters at the start of a second week of talks with U.N. Special Envoy Staffan de Mistura, accused…
GENEVA (Reuters) – The United States on Monday rejected Russia’s call for an urgent meeting over violations of Syria’s three-week cessation of hostilities, saying that its concerns were already being handled in a constructive manner. Russia’s general staff of the armed forces proposed on Monday to hold an urgent meeting with U.S. representatives to agree on the mechanism of controlling…
OTTAWA (Reuters) – The new United Nations refugee chief said on Monday he was seeking more money from East Asian nations as well as private donors to help cope with major refugee crises in the Middle East and Africa. “We want to really convince the world that refugee assistance cannot be the responsibility just of the countries that are next…
LONDON (Reuters) – The row over Europe inside David Cameron’s Conservative party may have thwarted the ambitions of staunchly pro-EU finance minister George Osborne to succeed him as prime minister. Just three months before a June 23 referendum on EU membership, Europe is causing mayhem within Cameron’s divided party and has now damaged Osborne, his closest political ally. Once cast…
SARAJEVO (Reuters) – Bosnia must press ahead quickly with reforms to keep alive its hopes of being named a candidate to join the European Union by the end of next year, EU enlargement chief Johannes Hahn said on Monday. Hahn said the ethnically divided Balkan country had made good progress on its EU path last year but must now make…
BRUSSELS (Reuters) – Amid all the arguments about the feasibility, legality and morality of the European Union’s migrant deal with Turkey, one positive result, say EU officials and diplomats, is that at least it hasn’t wrecked the Cyprus peace process. But it remains to be seen whether that can, as one EU senior official hopes, “turn a threat into an…
HAVANA (Reuters) – U.S. President Barack Obama and President Raul Castro held historic talks in Havana on Monday, discussing enduring disagreements over Cuba’s human rights record and Washington’s trade embargo as the two countries took another stride away from Cold War-era animosity. Obama arrived in Cuba on Sunday for the first visit by a U.S. president in almost 90 years…
THE HAGUE (Reuters) – Democratic Republic of Congo’s Jean-Pierre Bemba became the highest-ranking politician convicted by the international war crimes court on Monday, when it judged him responsible for a campaign of rape and murder in Central African Republic. Bemba, who served as vice president from 2003 to 2006, failed to discipline or restrain his Movement for the Liberation of…
Recommend NewsDaily on a variety of social networks to help spread the word.
Get the latest news with our free email newsletters, updated daily and weekly. Or view hourly updated newsfeeds in your RSS reader.
Let us know what you think of the new NewsDaily. We’re listening and working to make your experience better.

 NewsDaily -- a service of the science news site ScienceDaily -- is an automated general news site featuring breaking stories
 from major news wires, newspapers, and other sources across the world.
 


About ScienceDaily/NewsDaily  | 
 Advertise  | 
 Privacy  | 
 Terms of Use  | 
 Contact Us  | 
 COPYRIGHT


 Copyright © 2013 SCIENCEDAILY, LLC, AND/OR ITS LICENSED SOURCES. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.


 Note: Views expressed on NewsDaily do not necessarily reflect those of ScienceDaily or its staff.
