2014-10~12
http://newsok.com/true-religious-persecution-common-outside-the-united-states/article/5347440

True religious persecution common outside the United States | News OK
A bloodless war of words has escalated between an anti-Muslim state representative and the head of an Islamic advocacy group. This was inevitable following last week’s beheading in a Moore workplace by a man whom police say was a recent convert to Islam.
We issue today a call for calm and a truce in the war of words but we also wish to draw a distinction from isolated incidents and deadly, organized persecution around the globe.
A characteristic of life in these United States in 2014 is that even the slightest discomfort can be denounced as “persecution.” Yet such a broad definition of that term undermines the concept and insults those who face the real thing.
In the war of words between state Rep. John Bennett, R-Sallisaw, and members of the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), neither side has covered itself in glory. We’ve criticized Bennett’s comments for painting with a broad brush in suggesting that all Muslims in the United States may be closet terrorists. But CAIR’s response has been over the top, too. One CAIR official said Bennett’s remarks were “an apparent call for a violent purge of Muslims ...” That’s hardly the case.
Many Muslims around the globe would love it if the worst form of persecution they faced was dealing with intemperate remarks posted on the Internet by an obscure politician.
Consider China, where Ilham Tohti was recently given a life sentence for advocating for the rights of ethnic Uighurs, who are Muslim. That’s the harshest penalty handed down for illegal political speech in China in a decade. While some Uighur separatists have engaged in acts of terrorism, Tohti was noted for promoting dialogue between Uighurs and China’s rulers, and for opposing separatism.
As part of its crackdown, China has banned young men under age 18 from attending mosques. Other facets of the Uighurs’ Muslim religion are also banned — including simple acts such as growing a beard or fasting during Ramadan. Uighurs also face limits on travel, employment and where they can live.
Consider Myanmar, where 2012 battles between Rakhine Buddhists and Rohingya Muslims killed at least 192 people and displaced 140,000 with most losses accruing on the Muslim side. In 2013, Reuters reported that Myanmar officials were engaging in “apartheid-like policies segregating minority Muslims from the Buddhist majority.”
Consider Nigeria, where Boko Haram, an Islamist militant group, has expanded its efforts from targeting Christians to also targeting Muslims who don’t agree with them. The group is credited with murdering several prominent sheiks who opposed extremism.
Consider the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS), which has focused much of its wrath on Shiite Muslims, a group ISIS leaders consider infidels. In June, ISIS claimed that it had killed at least 1,700 Shiites that month. According to Human Rights Watch, ISIS members destroyed or damaged at least 13 Shia mosques and shrines outside Mosul from June 24 to July 2.
What happened in Moore has understandably racheted up fears about Islamic extremists within our shores, but the American Muslim community isn’t to blame for what Alton Nolen is alleged to have done. On the other hand, CAIR’s response to Bennett was crude and heavy-handed.
CAIR isn’t the only group that has equated social discomfort with state-sanctioned persecution; some American Christians have done the same. But the toughest treatment most U.S. citizens will face is a war of words whose harshest outcome is only wounded pride.
In other places around the world, the free practice of one’s religion — which U.S. Christians and Muslims alike largely take for granted — may occur at the cost of one’s life.
The Oklahoman Editorial Board consists of Gary Pierson, President and CEO of The Oklahoma Publishing Company; Christopher P. Reen, president and... read more ›