2014-10~12
http://www.sanantoniopost.com/index.php/sid/228871257

Detained 'Religious Extremists' Mostly Uyghur Women And Children - San Antonio Post
Nearly all the members of a group of people detained by authorities in southwestern China near the border with Vietnam over the weekend are ethnic Uyghur women and children from China's restive Xinjiang region, a source said Thursday.
According to state media, police in China's Guangxi province on Sunday shot dead one person and detained 21 other "religious extremists" seeking to cross into neighboring Vietnam.
The report, carried by the official Xinhua news agency, did not identify the members of the group or say where they were from, but authorities in China frequently blame religious extremism for violence involving Uyghur Muslims from Xinjiang in the country's northwest.
On Thursday, a staff member of a detention center in Guangxi's border town of Pingxiang told RFA's Uyghur Service that 17 women and children from the group had been taken into custody on Sunday--all of whom were Uyghurs.
"The detained Uyghurs are housed here in our facility," said the staff member, surnamed Huang.
"All of the [adults] are females, no males at all. [Most have] kids ranging from one to eight years of age. Public security personnel from the Pingxiang police station are currently interrogating them," he said.
Huang said he was unsure whether the detainees were religious extremists or not, adding that it was the first time Uyghurs had been held at his facility.
"I don't know where the males are. There are usually two places--one for women and the other for men," he said.
"The kids are fine. None are suffering from illness, but I'm not allowed to let the Uyghurs speak to you on the phone. All I can say is that they are eating the food that we provide them and occupying two cells--large enough to accommodate them."
Huang said he had not heard anything about a male member of the group being shot dead by police, but added that he was unaware of how the Uyghurs were detained.
He said he knew of Uyghurs "doing business" in Pingxiang, but said he was unfamiliar with them or their culture.
Xinhua said Wednesday that police had received a tip the group would attempt to cross into Vietnam through Pingxiang and sent a team to intercept them.
Other state media reports said one member of the group had stabbed a police officer as they were detained on Sunday night and was shot dead by authorities.
The Associated Press cited a statement by the official website for Guangxi's Chongzuo city as saying that police reinforcements helped detain the 21 others, adding that the policeman who was attacked was recovering at a local hospital.
Rights groups and exile Uyghur groups have questioned reports that members of the group were religious extremists and said Chinese authorities may have used excessive force in detaining them.
On Thursday, exiled Uyghur leader Rebiya Kadeer said the group included women and children, which indicated they were "escaping persecution to resettle in a third country."
"China labeled these people as extremists even before investigating their situation," she said.
"This is not something a country governed by rule of law would do."
Reports that one of the members of the group had been shot to death by police officers "suggests that Chinese security personnel used excessive force" in detaining them, Kadeer said.
She questioned why state media reports did not include information about women and children among the group of detainees.
"The government is saying that these people are religious extremists, but they are using this kind of tactic to justify police brutality against Uyghurs and discourage sympathy for them," she said.
The Xinjiang region, which is home to millions of Turkic-speaking Uyghurs, has seen an upsurge in violence that has left hundreds dead since 2012, and which China has blamed on terrorists and Islamist insurgents seeking to establish an independent state.
But rights groups accuse the Chinese authorities of heavy-handed rule in Xinjiang, including violent police raids on Uyghur households, restrictions on Islamic practices, and curbs on the culture and language of the Uyghur people.
Chinese president Xi Jinping announced a harsh, one-year antiterrorist campaign in May, following a bombing in the regional capital Urumqi that killed 31 people and injured 90.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Orlando - SeaWorld built its brand on a leaping and splashing killer whale named Shamu. She was part of its logo, gave her name to stadiums in the theme parks and was the inspiration for rides. The orca image sold T-shirts and soft, stuffed animals for the kids to take home.
With the company phasing out its killer whale breeding programme, it is forced to ponder the question: What is SeaWorld without Shamu -
"The orcas were their most powerful engagement tool," said Allen Adamson, a marketing and branding expert based in New York. "It requires SeaWorld to reinvent its core signature attraction. It's not an easy fix."
Under unrelenting pressure from animal rights groups and suffering from a drop in ticket sales, SeaWorld announced on Thursday it was ending its orca breeding programme and stopping its traditional killer whale shows.
SeaWorld isn't the only company to lose a signature and popular icon. Ringling and Barnum amp; Bailey Circus is retiring all its touring elephants to a 80ha conservation centre in May under similar pressure. And McDonald's phased out its "supersized" menu following the 2004 documentary, Super Size Me, in which film-maker Morgan Spurlock chronicled the effects of the chain's food on his health.
But McDonald's didn't go as far as SeaWorld, said Debanjan Mitra, branding expert at the University of Florida's Warrington College of Business.
"A comparable situation would be if McDonald's says, 'Tomorrow we are taking down the Big Mac.' That didn't happen," Mitra said.
SeaWorld's decision followed a backlash from the 2013 documentary Blackfish, which told the story of Tilikum, an orca responsible for the death of a SeaWorld trainer in 2010 and two other people in the 1990s. Attendance at SeaWorld's parks in San Diego, Orlando and San Antonio declined and some top musical acts dropped out of SeaWorld-sponsored concerts at the urging of animal rights activists, who demonstrated outside the parks' gates.
SeaWorld's 29 killer whales - ranging in age from 1 to 51 years old - will remain in captivity, but in "new, inspiring natural orca encounters", according to the company. And, eventually, as they die off, the parks will have to figure out a way to attract visitors without them.
"It's hard to walk away from such a powerful icon, but they have no choice," said Laura Ries, a marketing consultant based in Atlanta. "Are they really going to hang their brand on this visual that is really problematic and makes people question what they are doing with animals -"
Whether the iconic killer whale images survive remains to be seen. Shamu already started fading from view when Southwest Airlines dropped its marketing partnership with SeaWorld in 2014. Experts said the orca imagery is inconsistent with SeaWorld's new focus.
"Imagery nostalgia can connect their audience in some way - that is part of their past, but it can't be part of their live future," Ries said.
SeaWorld Entertainment CEO Joel Manby said the company has a good story to tell about its marine animal rescue operations. "I feel like that's where we need to go as an organisation and eliminate this orca issue as a cloud over our great story," he told The Associated Press.
Theme park consultant Dennis Speigel said SeaWorld now has the opportunity to return to its roots as a marine life park and enhance its position as an alternative theme park experience for people taking a break from Disney or Universal parks.
The Orlando park is getting a new roller coaster this year, but rides won't be the company's future, Speigel said.
"You'll see less of that in the future. You'll see capital dollars spent in the attractions area that focuses them back on marine life science and a really rich educational aspect," Speigel said.
Other experts caution that education might not attract crowds seeking thrills. People don't expect to visit an aquarium when they visit SeaWorld, and the company's previous plans to expand its orca tanks didn't placate the public, said Arun Sharma, professor of marketing at the University of Miami School of Business Administration.
"They will have to create experiences that differentiate themselves, as Universal does with Harry Potter or Disney does with Star Wars," Sharma said. "Education itself is not very attractive."
Overall, marketing experts say SeaWorld is making a positive change. In response, SeaWorld's stock shot up more than 16% by Friday afternoon.
- The San Antonio Police Department and Crime Stoppers are seeking the public’s assistance in ...
- A man was shot and killed accidentally by his own brother overnight, San Antonio ...
<br>A state of the art ship funded by the UK government for polar research may ...
HAVANA, CUBA - MARCH 20: Taking shelter from the pouring rain under umbrellas, U.S. President ...
- "Zootopia" continues to run wild over its rivals in its third weekend in theaters, ...
Get the latest San Antonio Post headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 San Antonio Post - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved