2014-10~12
http://www.theguardian.com/us-news/live/2014/dec/10/cia-torture-report-reaction-live

CIA torture report: rights groups call for criminal investigation – as it happened | US news | The Guardian


Wednesday 10 December 2014 18.30 EST



Last modified on Wednesday 10 December 2014 18.33 EST



We’re going to wrap up our live blog coverage for the day. Here’s a summary of where things stand:
Video: Former Guantánamo captive David Hicks heckles Australian prosecutor at awards ceremony
The Huffington Post contributes zesty added detail to the developing Michael Hayden story, in which the former CIA director is talking as fast as he can to make the Senate look bad and make the agency look better.
“As Hayden sees it, he’s being held to a much higher standard than his peers,” writes Sam Stein:
“I mean what are they doing—trying to score my public speeches? What’s that about?”he said in an interview with Politico magazine. “You want me to go out and score Ron Wyden’s speeches?
Naturally, Wyden’s close associates weren’t pleased to see Hayden try and drag him down as he grappled for a lifeline in the aftermath of the torture report’s release. Wyden’s former top spokeswoman, Jennifer Hoelzer, emailed over the following:
1. That’s really fucking offensive given that all of Ron’s statements are directed towards informing the American people and exposing the [intelligence community’s] attempts to mislead, while Hayden’s all about the lying/misleading.
2 - While I’m no longer Ron’s official spokesperson, I think I speak for everyone on team Wyden, when I say “Go the fuck ahead.”
So revealing that Hayden thinks it's untoward for people to scrutinize the statements of the NSA & CIA director. http://t.co/kvmka3TiHA
The landmark Senate report on the CIA’s post-9/11 torture program will soon be available in paperback, reports the Guardian’s Lauren Gambino (@lgamgam):
The 500-page chronicle of abuses carried out against detainees at CIA-operated prisons around the world will be published by Melville House in paperback and as an e-book, the independent publisher announced on Wednesday. The Senate intelligence committee released the heavily redacted report on Tuesday.
Titled The Senate Intelligence Committee Report on Torture, the book is due to hit shelves on 8 January 2015.
“Our fear was that, with all the distractions of the holiday season, the report would fade quickly from the news cycle,” Melville House co-publisher Dennis Johnson said in a statement.
“That may, in fact, have even been part of the point of releasing it now, and what seems to have discouraged other publishers from publishing it. But it’s probably the most important government document of our generation, even one of the most significant in the history of our democracy.”
For more on the things Michael Hayden says, see here and here.
Just curious: After being proven a serial liar, has Michael Hayden faced a tough interview yet? So far, looks like they same old reverence.
The Guardian view on the CIA torture report: there is a second scandal here.
“If it is a scandal that the CIA tortured, it is another scandal that it hired a private business to do that work on its behalf,” the editors write in a new leader:
Buried deep in the US Senate’s report on CIA torture is an account of how often brutal interrogation was outsourced to a private company in receipt of huge sums of US taxpayers’ money. The CIA transferred a total of $81m to a firm set up by two psychologists involved in the interrogation programme. The value of the CIA’s contract with this firm reached $180m in 2006, though in fact only $81m was paid out before the contract expired in 2009. In 2007 the CIAprovided that same company with a multiyear indemnity arrangement to protect it and its employees from legal liability. The agency later paid out a further $1m in connection with this agreement.
All this gives a fascinating glimpse into how private business interests became enmeshed in activity – the interrogation of suspected terrorists – that we would normally regard as the exclusive preserve of the state, namely the safeguarding of national security. If it is a scandal that the CIA tortured, it is another scandal that it hired a private business to do that work on its behalf.
Senator Feinstein’s office has released a statement rebutting criticism that the Senate report was flawed because Senate staffers did not draw on interviews with people involved with the torture program – neither interrogators nor victims – to draw its picture of what happened.
In January 2008, Attorney General Michael Mukasey opened a formal criminal investigation into the destruction of CIA videotapes and appointed DOJ Special Prosecutor John Durham to conduct that investigation.
Senator Feinstein said the following during her remarks on the Senate floor on December 9, 2014:
“On August 24, 2009, Attorney General Eric Holder expanded that review. This occurred six months after our study had begun.
Durham’s original investigation of the CIA’s destruction of interrogation videotapes was broadened to include possible criminal actions of CIA employees in the course of CIA detention and interrogation activities.
At the time, the committee’s Vice Chairman Kit Bond withdrew the minority’s participation in the study, citing the attorney general’s expanded investigation as the reason.
The Department of Justice refused to coordinate its investigation with the Intelligence Committee’s review. As a result, possible interviewees could be subject to additional liability if they were interviewed.
The CIA, citing the attorney general’s investigation, would not instruct its employees to participate in our interviews. (Source: classified CIA internal memo, February 26, 2010).
The incoming chairman of the Senate intelligence committee, Republican Richard Burr of North Carolina, has warned that Senator Mark Udall will have to “live with consequences” of what he said on the Senate floor today. Politico reports:
[Burr] said that findings disclosed by Udall are actually “very classified.”
“Listen, he’s protected under the free speech,” Burr said, apparently referring to the speech and debate clause of the Constitution. “So Mark Udall’s the one that has to live with consequences of it.”
One of Udall’s key points was that an internal CIA review of the torture program, the Panetta Review, contradicted public statements by CIA officials about the value of intelligence gleaned through torture and other points. Udall said the Panetta review was a “smoking gun” of CIA deception and “the CIA is lying.”
One way of reading Burr: “it’s very classified that the CIA is lying.”
Udall said the CIA paid contractors to read every one of the 6m-plus documents multiple times before Senate staff could look. That and site requirements ran up expenses into the tens of millions:
Feinstein: CIA's demands that contractors review all docs and Senate staff work at offsite are why torture report cost $40M.
UPDATE: Senator Dianne Feinstein would like to point out that the lion’s share of those expenses stemmed from CIA demands and conditions – not from Senate intelligence committee spending.
FACT CHECK: Intelligence Committee did not spend $40 million on CIA detention and interrogation study. http://t.co/3AkPHQj1N4
The Senate Intelligence Committee study of the CIA’s detention and interrogation program was completed entirely with existing committee resources; only minor staff additions were needed at some early stages of the study.
The overwhelming majority of the $40 million cost was incurred by the CIA and was caused by the CIA’s own unprecedented demands to keep documents away from the committee. Rather than provide documents for the committee to review in its own secure Senate office—as is standard practice—the CIA insisted on establishing a separate leased facility and a “stand-alone” computer network for committee use.
The CIA hired teams of contractors to review every document, multiple times, to ensure they were relevant and not potentially subject to a claim of executive privilege. Only after those costly reviews were the documents then provided to committee staff.
Committee Chairman Dianne Feinstein wrote several letters objecting to this unprecedented action, pointing out the wasted expense and unnecessary delays. Later, this arrangement at the off-site CIA facility allowed CIA personnel to remove documents it had provided for the committee’s use and to inappropriately gain access to the committee staff’s computer network and email.
Guardian national security editor Spencer Ackerman (@attackerman) has filed a news story describing the bombshells in Senator Mark Udall’s speech accusing the CIA of lying and calling for the resignation of director John Brennan today:
“A recently defeated senator described portions of a still-classified CIA overview of torture on the Senate floor as a “smoking gun,” accusing the CIA and the White House of lying about brutal CIA interrogations and continuing to cover them up. [...]
Senator Mark Udall called upon Barack Obama “to purge his administration of high-level officials” complicit in the Bush-era torture program.
That purge, he said, should include CIA director John Brennan, a confidant of Obama whom Udall said the president had declined to rein in during a long clash with the Senate intelligence committee. Udall first called on Brennan to resign in August, after Brennan conceded that agency officials had inappropriately accessed emails and work product of Senate torture investigators on a shared network.
With a tone at points mournful and angry, Udall, who lost his re-election last month, said “the CIA has lied to its overseers and the public,” and blasted the White House for not holding anyone “to account”.
“Director Brennan and the CIA today are continuing to willfully provide inaccurate information and misrepresent the efficacy of torture. In other words, the CIA is lying,” Udall said in what may be his final major Washington address.
“Now, the question for everyone who read this essential textbook of CIA wrongdoing, even for those who never will, is: Where do we go from here?” writes Trevor Timm in Comment Is Free:
Transparency can’t possibly be the only punishment for an agency which has broken the law so systematically. ...
Joining other groups in looking ahead, the ACLU laid out a comprehensive accountability plan on Tuesday that calls on attorney general Eric Holder to immediately appoint another special prosecutor – like, today – to investigate the architects of the torture regime, like the Dick Cheneys and John Yoos who were barely mentioned in the Senate’s report. The White House can also compensate victims, mandate more transparency and propose comprehensive CIA reform in Congress so this colossal failure of oversight and rampant criminality never happens again.
“The latest revelations of torture and abuse by the CIA in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks are not news to Isis, al-Qaida or other extremist Islamist groups,” writes Guardian Middle East editor Ian Black (@ian_black). “But they have been instantly incorporated into the narrative of ‘Crusader’ cruelty – and may be used to justify similar methods as well as to promote recruitment”:
“Read [the Senate report] my brother and stick your shoe in the mouth of those who say that the Islamic State distorts Islam,” one Isis supporter tweeted. Another, a Syrian, wrote: “Getting beheaded is 100 times more humane, more dignified than what these filthy scumbags do to Muslims.”
Hani al-Sibaei, a prominent radical Islamist scholar, commented: “American politicians consider CIA report on torture of Muslim detainees a disgrace to America! Damn you! Your entire history is a stain on the face of humanity.”
Nabil Naim a former Egyptian jihadi leader, announced that he was ready to raise a 10,000 strong force of suicide bombers to attack America. Isis itself issued no official response.
Here's @MarkUdall's speech on the Panetta Report and what a nice Jesuit monk John Brennan is. https://t.co/fsHfBALAhO
Video: CIA ‘enhanced interrogation’ techniques undermine US moral authority, says White House
Afghanistan’s new President Ashraf Ghani on Wednesday condemned the CIA torture program Wednesday, saying the United States’ actions violated “all accepted principles of human rights”. AFP reports:
“The Afghan government condemns these inhumane actions in the strongest terms,” he said at a specially convened press conference at the presidential palace in Kabul.
“There can be no justification for these kinds of actions and inhumane torture in today’s world.”
Afghanistan was home to the notorious Salt Pit torture site north of Kabul, where detainee Gul Ruhman was chained to the floor and froze to death and others including alleged 9/11 organizer Ammar al-Baluchi were tortured.
US officials and other American citizens implicated by the Senate report on torture could face arrest in other countries as a result of investigations by foreign courts, human rights lawyers said on Wednesday, Guardian diplomatic editor Julian Borger (@julianborger) reports:
“If I was one of those people, I would hesitate before making any travel arrangements,” said Michael Bochenek, director of law and policy at Amnesty International.
The Obama administration wound up an inquiry into criminal responsibility for the use of torture in 2012, without launching any prosecutions and it is unclear whether the Senate report will lead to that decision being reviewed. But because torture is considered a grave crime under international law, other governments could arrest and prosecute anyone implicated in the report who was on their territory under the principle of universal jurisdiction.
“Some of these people will never leave US borders again,” Bochenek said. “If say, one of them goes on holiday in Paris, then France would have the legal obligation to arrest and prosecute that individual. States have clear obligation in cases of torture.”
A British man who was allegedly tortured after being detained in Pakistan at the request of the CIA and MI5 has embarked upon the latest round of his damages claim against the UK government, the Guardian’s Ian Cobain (@iancobain) reports:
In a legal case that is rooted in the close relationship that British intelligence maintained with the CIA at a time when the agency was involved in the abuse of suspects, Salahuddin Amin says that the UK should be held to have been complicit in his mistreatment.
Amin, 39, a taxi driver from Luton, north of London, was held prisoner in Pakistan for 10 months after being detained in 2004. He was then deported to Britain, and in 2007 he and four other men were convicted for their roles in an al-Qaida plot to detonate a bomb or series of bombs at targets in the south-east of England. One proposed target was the Ministry of Sound nightclub in London, while a second was the giant Bluewater shopping centre east of the capital. Amin was jailed for life and lost his appeal against conviction.
He does not allege that he was tortured by British or American intelligence officers, but says he was beaten, whipped and deprived of sleep by officers of Pakistan’s notorious Inter-Services Intelligence agency, and on one occasion threatened with an electric drill. In between these torture sessions, he says, he was questioned on around 12 occasions by two MI5 officers who called themselves “Matt” and “Richard”, as well as by CIA officers.
Read the full report here. And here’s a list of countries that cooperated with the CIA torture program:
At least 54 countries supported CIA rendition and torture. http://t.co/0N6YM1l3ai #TortureReport pic.twitter.com/vsdhzImQ54
Sign in
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.


We’re doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
