2014-10~12
http://www.therakyatpost.com/world/2014/11/21/china-courts-put-reporter-trial-reject-uighur-scholars-appeal/

The Rakyat Post - Latest Malaysian News
KUALA LUMPUR, 21 March 2016:  Rayani Air Sdn Bhd is likely to face suspension of operations if it fails to comply with airline regulations. Transport Minister Datuk Seri Liow Tiong Lai said the ministry was closely monitoring the airline company following complaints from the public on flight delays and cancellations...
KUALA LUMPUR, 21 March 2016:  Bandar Malaysia is estimated to involve a cummulative gross development value (GDV) of RM160 billion and will be completed over the next 20 years, says Iskandar Waterfront Holdings (IWH) executive vice chairman Tan Sri Lim Kang Hoo. Lim said the China Railway Group Ltd (CREC),...
JAKARTA, 21 March 2016:  Thousands of Indonesian taxi drivers will take to the streets of the capital tomorrow for a protest rally to demand the government prohibits ride-hailing apps like Grab and Uber, as a price war intensifies. The proliferation of cheap taxis using ride-sharing apps Go-Jek, Grab and Uber...
PUTRAJAYA, 21 March 2016:  The misappropriation of government funds totalling RM107 million in the Ministry of Youth and Sports will not derail preparations to host the 2017 SEA Games in Kuala Lumpur or sports development programmes. Youth and Sports Minister Khairy Jamaluddin said the misappropriation of funds...
NEW YORK, 21 March 2016:  Five cheetah cubs are fighting for their lives after being delivered prematurely at a Cincinnati zoo by a caesarean section, a procedure seldom performed during the birth of the endangered cats. The cubs, born earlier this month, have weak immune systems and are unable to actively ward...
BARCELONA, 21 March 2016:  Barcelona squandered the chance to go 11 points clear in La Liga yesterday after blowing a two-goal lead in the space of six minutes in a 2-2 draw at Villarreal that was overshadowed by a controversial penalty. A 62nd minute own goal by Barcelona substitute Jeremy Mathieu, who turned...
KUALA LUMPUR, 21 March 2016:  Rayani Air Sdn Bhd is likely to face suspension of operations if it fails to comply with...
KUALA LUMPUR, 21 March 2016:  Bandar Malaysia is estimated to involve a cummulative gross development value (GDV) of RM160...
KUALA LUMPUR, 21 March 2016:  Proton is taking a number...
JAKARTA, 21 March 2016:  Thousands of Indonesian taxi drivers will take to the streets of the capital tomorrow for a protest...
PASADENA, 21 March 2016:  A comet is making its closest...
LOS ANGELES, 19 March 2016:  The pilot of a Lufthansa...
PUTRAJAYA, 21 March 2016:  The misappropriation of government funds totalling RM107 million in the Ministry of Youth and...
NEW YORK. 21 March 2016:  BNP Paribas Open chief executive...
BARCELONA, 21 March 2016:  Barcelona squandered the chance to go 11 points clear in La Liga yesterday after blowing a two-goal...
TRP 360° is an open platform commited to getting to the heart of the matter.
We aim to approach current issues from as many perspectives as possible, including yours.
The advent of smartphone apps have proven to be both a boon and bane for local taxi drivers. While these apps have increased access to customers for licensed cabbies, the entry of private cars into this fray has added competition in the pursuit of commuter fares. Stuck between restrictive rules and high operating...
The issue of extra workload for around 500,000 teachers in the country has yet to be addressed, says PKR vice-president Nurul Izzah Anwar, raising again a matter that has been debated endlessly in recent years. The teacher issue has become paramount as education policies within Malaysia has been in the limelight...
Public schools in Malaysia have already been closed several days to reduce students’ exposure to unhealthy levels of haze in the country. But, unlike previous calls for school closures, parents now want students to attend classes so that they can finish their year-end examinations. What makes the confusion...
Twelve major highway concessionaires within the Klang Valley are raising toll rates from Thursday, with the increase ranging between 10 sen and RM6. However, inter-city tolls have not been raised for eight highways managed by PLUS Malaysia Bhd – the North-South Expressway, New Klang Valley Expressway (NKVE),...
Singapore Post has successfully completed a trial for the world’s first postal service using an unmanned aerial vehicle or drone, with the delivery of a letter and a T-shirt for a total distance of 2km between Lorong Halus in mainland Singapore and Pulau Ubin. While the postal service down south hasn’t...
The original Opposition coalition Pakatan Rakyat was disbanded as of June 16 this year, due to Democratic Action Party (DAP) being at odds with Parti Islam Se-Malaysia (PAS). Thereafter, a split in PAS saw some of its former members forming Parti Amanah Negara (Amanah) – which has now forged a new Opposition...
GET INVOLVED. We want to hear what you want to say. Feel strongly about an issue?Contribute an article
PARIS, 21 March 2016:  Margarita Louis-Dreyfus, majority owner and chairwoman of global trading house Louis Dreyfus Commodities...
NEW YORK, 21 March 2016:  Five cheetah cubs are fighting...
NEW YORK, 18 March 2016:  A rare blue diamond ring...
KUALA LUMPUR, 17 March 2016:  The rumour mill is already...
BORN in Penang, 24-year-old Mohd Hasan Hussin spent a great deal of his youth at Dignity for Children, a non-profit organisation,...
THERE’S a new café in Sentul that only serves only...
IT TAKES a small twist of fate to forever change one’s...
HE IS 89 years old, but the founding father of Malaysian...
KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 26, 2016: A video of a scene resembling the setting of a night club party taking place at a local university...
JOHOR BARU, Jan 13, 2016: An image of a Chinese coffee...
KUALA LUMPUR, Dec 13, 2015: A woman’s rant on the perceived...
By: Goh Wei Liang • February 15 2016 4:27 pm
LETTER FROM THE RAKYAT: I AM extremely disappointed with the way our government handles its communications. We have a million people in civil service and every single ministry has a corporate...
By: Mohd Sheriff Mohd Kassim • January 15 2016 8:45 pm
LETTER FROM G25: I AGREE with our Honourable Prime Minister that in view of the challenging economic scenario for 2016, a recalibration of the Federal Government budget is inevitable to take...
By: Tan Sri Ramon Navaratnam • January 12 2016 4:30 pm
LETTER FROM THE RAKYAT: WE are facing a new socio economic dilemma, but the question is: how do we respond to it effectively? Our apparently strong economic fundamentals are weakening further....
By: Farqani Mohd Noor • January 8 2016 7:34 pm
LETTER FROM THE RAKYAT: TRAVELLING through downtown Cancun, my friend Joshua and I, constantly stumble upon Mexican quartets that sing from one restaurant to another. My personal favourite is...
Feb 23, 2016: An elephant decorated with a cloth walk in the annual Nawam Perahera street parade in Colombo yesterday. Over 50 elephants are participating in a street parade for Gangaramaya temple’s annual Perahera festival, along with a nightly procession of traditional dancers, fire twirlers and traditional musicians. — Reuters pic
Feb 23, 2016: Rebel fighters inspect a piece of a rocket that landed in an area that connects the northern countryside of Deraa and Quneitra countryside, Syria yesterday. — Reuters pic
Feb 23, 2016: A boy uses a mobile phone as he sits inside his father’s snacks shop along a road in Kolkata, India, yesterday. — Reuters pic
Feb 23, 2016: Four of eight confiscated Vietnamese fishing boats are destroyed in Mempawah Regency, West Kalimantan, Indonesia yesterday in this photo taken by Antara Foto. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Fisheries, together with the Indonesian Navy, destroyed 30 foreign fishing vessels in different locations across the country, which were seized earlier for illegal fishing in Indonesian waters. — Reuters pic
Feb 21, 2016: Spectators watching a fireworks display of Britain during the 7th Philippine International Pyromusical Competition in Pasay city, metro Manila. Teams from the Philippines, Portugal, Italy, Britain, the US, the Netherlands, Germany, Canada, Australia, China and France are participating in the weekend fireworks show which will run until March. — Reuters pic
Feb 21, 2016: A plane is seen during taking off in New Jersey behind the Statue of Liberty in New York’s harbour as seen from the Brooklyn borough of New York. — Reuters pic
Feb 20, 2016: A migrant plays with his baby as they wait to enter Macedonia from Greece near Gevgelija, Macedonia, yesterday. — Reuters pic
Feb 20, 2016: A surfer drops in on a large wave at Praia do Norte in Nazare, Portugal, yesterday. The Praia do Norte beach has become a famous beach for big waves surfers around the world since Hawaiian surfer Garrett McNamara get a world record for the largest wave surfed in 2011. — Reuters pic
Feb 20, 2016: Model feebee poses as part of art installation ‘Dazzle room’ made by artist Shigeki Matsuyama at Room 32 fashion and design exhibition in Tokyo, yesterday. Matsuyamaâs installation features a strong contrast of black and white, which he learned from dazzle camouflage used mainly in World War I, in Tokyo, yesterday. — AP pic
Feb 17, 2016: Pope Francis hugging two girls during a meeting with youths at the Jose Maria Morelos y Pavon stadium in Morelia, Mexico. — Reuters pic
Dalai Lama, the Tibetan spiritual leader, when asked about prayers for those who died in the Paris terrorist attack, says the world must not ask God to fix man-made problems.