2014-10~12
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/16365/20141014/china-sentences-12-people-held-responsible-for-xinjiang-attacks-in-july-100-killed.htm

China Sentences 12 People Held Responsible For Xinjiang Attacks In July, 100 Killed : Related China : Chinatopix
Military and security in Xinjiang has been increased due to the attacks by Uighur militants. (Photo : Reuters)
A Chinese court sentenced 12 ethnic Uighurs to death as they have been found responsible for the attacks in Xinjiang that has killed 100 people in July, police reports confirmed.
At least a hundred people were killed due to a mass stabbing conducted by knife-wielding attackers that targeted villages outside Yarkant, Xinjiang. The attackers mainly directed the mass stabbing towards local government buildings.
From the attack, 215 people were arrested while 59 aggressors were shot dead by police authorities. The clash between the authorities and the attackers also caused 37 civilians to be killed.
Among the 215 arrested, only 12 were sentenced to death. These 12 people are accused of multiple crimes including terrorism, murder, making explosive and kidnap as written on the official website of Xinjiang's government.
15 more were supposed to be punished the same way that the twelve others were sentenced however these were suspended but the reason has not been informed. Another nine were sentenced with life imprisonment while 20 more were punished with lesser time to spend in jail.
The conflict between the rebels and the authorities has been an increasing concern as the Uighurs fight for their independence from China and establish their own state called "East Turkestan". There have been hundreds of people killed in the province of Xinjiang for the past two years.
The latest report of another killing has been stated by China Central Television on Monday as two 'thugs' were said to have stabbed a policewoman last Friday. The policewoman was cruelly stabbed to death while the attackers used a motorcycle to quickly get away from the scene of the crime.
The attack on the unidentified policewoman is said to be due to the killing of an Uighur imam in July.
The attacks are said to be not only limited in Xinjiang as the Chinese government also blame the Uighur militants to be attacking some parts of Beijing including a mass stabbing at a train station earlier this year. 
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent rumors have emerged that Sacramento Kings All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins could finally move to the Los Angeles Lakers in the summer following his recent comments about the Hollywood squad’s young players after the two team’s recent game. read more