2014-10~12
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/article/1639675/hengyang-official-turns-himself-police-after-accidentally-shooting-57

Tea-picking villager shot by Hengyang official on wild boar hunt | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Son of dead tea-picker angered by Hengyang official's alleged delay in turning himself in to the police after 'accidental' shooting
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
The son of a tea-picker shot dead last weekend by a local official hunting wild boar in Hunan province said yesterday that his mother might have been saved if the official had turned himself in earlier.
Luo Yunying, 57, was found dead seven hours after she left her home in Yangjiao village, Hengyang , in the morning to pick tea leaves on Sunday.
She did not return home for lunch as usual and was found dead lying under a tea bush, the Beijing News reported.
Local police said she suffered gunshot wounds to her head and chest.
Xiao Weidong, who works for the Hengyang food and drug administration, turned himself in to the police on Sunday afternoon, saying that he "accidentally" injured a person when he was hunting with friends.
Luo's son, Dong Changwu, told the South China Morning Post that his mother had one gunshot wound to her head and two others to her body but he had been told that an autopsy report would not be available for 20 days.
Dong said he felt extremely angry and confused over his mother's death.
"Villagers said they heard gunshots at 9am, but the official only turned [himself] in to police at 3pm," he said.
"If he had called the police earlier, my mother could have been sent to hospital in time. Maybe she could have survived.
"I called various departments. Four days passed and no official contacted us until it had been reported by the media."
Xinhua reported that Xiao was in police detention and illegally possessed a double-barrelled shotgun.
Police were investigating whether Xiao was using a government vehicle for the hunting trip and who was with him at the time.
Local police said the trip was illegal because it took place in what was considered a residential area.
The municipal government of Hengyang declined to comment on the incident.
The shooting is the latest case of a mainland official killing someone while on a hunting trip.
In November 2008, the former deputy party secretary of Tacheng, a city in Xinjiang , mistook a couple for a pair of wild boar and shot one person dead and seriously injured the other.
He was convicted of unpremeditated manslaughter and sentenced to four years in jail, Xinhua reported.