2014-10~12
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/228447801

China's Urumqi Bans Burqas - China National News
The capital of China's ethnically divided Xinjiang region has banned the public wearing of head coverings traditionally donned by some Muslim women.
State media in Urumqi reported Thursday local Communist Party leaders approved the burqa ban during a meeting of the government's Standing Committee.
Authorities in Xinjiang have imposed an increasing number of restrictions on Muslim religious life, as they attempt to deal with a worsening wave of ethnic unrest.
Hundreds have been killed in recent years during a series of riots and attacks on government, and increasingly, civilian, targets in and around Xinjiang.
The government blames foreign-backed Muslim separatists for the violence. It has launched a wide-ranging crackdown, executing dozens and jailing hundreds this year alone.
But many in Xinjiang's predominantly Muslim Uighur ethnic group say discriminatory policies are driving the violence.
In addition to the burqa ban, Xinjiang authorities have at times prohibited men from wearing long beards on public buses. Some students have also been kept from fasting during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
Many Uighurs also complain of economic disenfranchisement and preferential treatment toward the Han, China's largest ethnic group, which have moved into Xinjiang in waves.
China denies discriminating against the Uighurs, saying it is pouring money into the region and improving living standards.
New Delhi, March 20 (IANS) Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday opened an exhibition here on how Parsi traders used gains from trade with China to lay the foundation of Mumbai as India's financial capital.
The exhibition, "Painted Encounters: Parsi Traders and the Community", traces through paintings, engravings and photographs the growth of Parsi traders who built ships for trade with Canton in the 19th century.
Parsi merchants hailing from hamlets in Gujarat and rich from the China trade commissioned Indian and European artists to paint portraits and were known patrons of these art forms.
Leading Parsi traders boosted capital accumulation and helped shape 19th century Bombay (now Mumbai) to emerge as an international financial metropolis.
The exhibition has been curated by Pheroza J. Godrej and Firoza Punthakey Mistree.
Another exhibition, "No Parsi is an Island", is a curatorial re-reading of the work of 14 Parsi artists across 150 years. It has been curated by Ranjit Hoskote and Nancy Adajania with Pheroza J. Godrej.
"The Parsi community is an integral and important part of our national history and identity," said Rajeev Lochan, director of the National Gallery of Modern Art where the exhibitions will end on May 29.
"Unfortunately, time and again, they have been regarded as 'others' by many. This exhibition is crucial in highlighting that they are as much a part of our collective past, present and future," he said.

JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
China has set lower targets for improving its energy efficiency by the end of 2020 ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved