2014-10~12
http://www.dw.de/canadian-man-found-guilty-of-murdering-chinese-student/a-18149142

Canadian Luka Magnotta found guilty of murdering Chinese student | News | DW.COM | 23.12.2014

A Canadian man has been found guilty of the murder of a Chinese student in a case that shocked the nation. A Montreal court heard how a video appeared online showing the defendant abusing the corpse.


A jury on Tuesday found Luka Magnotta, 32, guilty of killing and dismembering his Chinese lover in Montreal in the spring of 2012. He was also convicted on four other related charges.

Magnotta, a former porn actor, had admitted to the killing of engineering student Jun Lin, 33, but 
pleaded not guilty on grounds of mental illness. His lawyer argued that he was schizophrenic and couldn't tell right from wrong at the time of the murder.
Magnotta (center) is escorted from a plane on his arrival in Montreal from Germany
However, the prosecution reasoned the crime was both planned and deliberate, and that his behavior and actions were not those of an insane person.

Magnotta was also found guilty of committing an indignity to a human body, publishing and mailing obscene material and criminally harassing Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper and other members of Parliament.

The verdict comes after eight days of deliberations in a case that has garnered significant international attention due to the nature of the murder and the incidents connected to it.

The court heard how, in May 2012, a package containing a severed foot was found at the headquarters of Canada's ruling Conservative Party. On the same day, a severed hand was discovered at a postal facility in a package addressed to the Liberal Party of Canada.

Lin's torso was found in a suitcase at a rubbish dump outside Magnotta's apartment building in Montreal. Around a week later, the missing foot and hand were mailed to two schools in the city of Vancouver.
Magnotta was detained by police in a Berlin Internet cafe, seen here
The jury was also shown a video of the killing that Magnotta had posted online. It included a soundtrack and was entitled: "One Lunatic, One Ice Pick."

The prosecution said that six months before the incident, Magnotta had emailed a British journalist to say he planned to kill a human and make a movie of it. The jury heard that Magnotta, a gay escort, was hospitalized in 2001 and sought psychiatric help about a month before Lin's death.

Magnotta fled to Europe after the killing and 
was arrested in an Internet cafe in Berlin where he was reading about himself online.
A murder trial poised to be one of the most grisly in Canadian history has begun in Montreal. "Canadian Psycho" Luka Magnotta is accused of murdering and dismembering Chinese computer student Lin Jun. (29.09.2014)
  

Germany has extradited a man suspected in a Canadian murder case. The Canadian porn actor will stand trial for the alleged murder and dismemberment of a Chinese student. (18.06.2012)
  

Berlin police authorities have arrested a man dubbed the "Canadian Psycho" who is believed to have killed and dismembered his Chinese lover. (04.06.2012)
  

DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
