2014-10~12
http://catholic.org/news/international/asia/story.php?id=57445

While ISIS makes advances in Iraq and Syria, China fears potential Islamic revolution in western provinces - Asia & Pacific - International - News - Catholic Online
China has begun to enforce and implement strict border security in an 
attempt to halt the travel of Islamic extremists between the Middle East
 and Southeast Asia.
Chinese and Pakistani soldiers conduct a cooperative, joint-border patrol. China has large borders with Russia, Mongolia, Pakistan, India and numerous smaller countries.
LOS ANGELES, CA (Catholic Online) - This move follows reports that Uyghurs-a Muslim minority group in southwestern China-are fighting for the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.Combat corruption with moral education; send a Bible to a child, or another person in need. The Chinese state-run China Daily also reports that authorities are starting to share intelligence with neighboring countries in order to curtail growing Islamic radicalism."Border police have stepped up efforts to prevent and combat such cases," it reported an unnamed government official as saying.A new Chinese law, which is expected to pass later this week, will include stricter controls on the nation's already heavily censored internet, the sharing of information between state agencies and greater cooperation with other nations in regards to Islamists.China began a campaign in the Xinjiang province in May, in order to crack down on Uyghur militants who had caused numerous attacks which caused hundreds of deaths.These militants have been increasing contact with Islamist groups, especially the Islamic State. In fact, the Islamic State's leader, Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi, has labelled China as a violator of Muslim rights."Your brothers all over the world are waiting for your rescue, and are anticipating your brigades," Baghdadi said during a speech in Iraq on July 4.In September, Iraqi security forces released images of captured Chinese militants who were fighting with the Islamic State. That same month, Indonesian police arrested four Uyghurs for working with Islamic terrorism groups in the country.Chinese media has continually reported a link between Uyghur separatists in Xinjiang and Islamic radicals overseas."Their final destination is to return to China to plot and conduct more terrorist attacks," the China Daily reported.
What should you do when farmers are given illegal genetically modified (GM) seeds to sow? Apparently the answer is to purchase the crops at a drastically reduced price to teach the biotech company a lesson while simultaneously forcing farmers into debt-related suicide. ... continue reading
ISIS propaganda videos continue to draw Muslim converts to the militant extremist group across Asia, including the Philippines and Indonesia. LOS ANGELES, CA (Catholic Online) - Since ISIS appeared in the Philippines in December last year, the extremist group has done ... continue reading
A 16-year-old girl was stalked and eventually lured to the terrace of her home one night, where she was brutally attacked beneath the cover of darkness. LOS ANGELES, CA (Catholic Online) - According to Daily Mail, the girl's attacker was a 19-year-old man, who left her ... continue reading
On August 12, 2015, a series of explosions rocked the Port of Tianjin, killing at least 173 people. An investigation has recently been concluded in the accident, confirming the cause of the blasts. The explosions are very dramatic, and were felt a 100 miles away. LOS ... continue reading
A North Korean freighter was captured by the Philippine government on Saturday and immediately impounded. LOS ANGELES, CA (Catholic Online) - The North Korean freighter, which was covered by harsher U.N. sanctions against Pyongyang over it's nuclear program, saw its ... continue reading
Australian officials are increasingly confident they will locate the wreckage of Malaysia Airlines MH370 before July. The claim is based on the fact that some prime locations where the plane could be are about to be searched and that officials are confident the plan is ... continue reading
A single scrap of metal discovered in Mozambique, Africa, may be the miracle Beijing residents have been praying for. LOS ANGELES, CA (Catholic Online) - Blaine Alan Gibson, a plane enthusiast, discovered the debris on a sandbank in the Mozambique channel. Gibson ... continue reading
Imagine you are swimming in the cool waters of a calm sea. Beneath the surface lies a field of color revealing itself and dancing in the shifting light. Then suddenly a creature from the depths appears, swimming closer and closer in a frightening blur of spindly legs ... continue reading
China is worried, very worried, that Donald Trump will become the next U.S. president. They have issued a veiled warning, cautioning against policies proposed by Trump that will punish China for currency manipulation and militaristic expansion. LOS ANGELES, CA ... continue reading
The Islamic
 State extended their war of hate against those who do not believe in the same things as them with a bold daytime attack on a Hindu priest in Bangladesh. 
The priest, 45-year-old Jogeswar Roy was decapitated after militants 
rushed his temple just before ... continue reading
Stay up to date with the latest news, information, and special offers
Where do the palms for Palm Sunday come from? Read More
Bet you didn't know these 10 things about St. Patrick and Ireland! Read More
Pope Francis wants to change two major Catholic laws he sees as ... Read More
The Happy Priest: Palm Sunday and the Humility of Jesus Read More
Reading 1, Isaiah 50:4-7
4 Lord Yahweh has given me a disciple's tongue, for me to know how to ... Read More
Psalm, Psalms 22:8-9, 17-18, 19-20, 23-24
8 'He trusted himself to Yahweh, let Yahweh set him free! Let him deliver ... Read More
Gospel, Luke 22:14-23:56
14 When the time came he took his place at table, and the apostles with ... Read More
Reading 2, Philippians 2:6-11
6 Who, being in the form of God, did not count equality with God ... Read More
Bl. John of Parma March 20: John Buralli, the seventh minister general of the ... Read More
The same God whom Patrick served is still at work
Copyright 2016 Catholic Online. All materials contained on this site, whether written, audible or visual are the exclusive property of Catholic Online and are protected under U.S. and International copyright laws, © Copyright 2016 Catholic Online. Any unauthorized use, without prior written consent of Catholic Online is strictly forbidden and prohibited.
Sign up to receive your FREE Catholic Online newsletters and special offers by email.