2014-10~12
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/11244945/Chinese-journalist-Gao-Yu-faces-life-sentence-for-leaking-state-secrets.html

Chinese journalist Gao Yu faces life sentence for leaking state secrets - Telegraph
A prominent liberal Chinese journalist has denied that she “leaked state secrets” during a four-hour trial in Beijing.
Gao Yu, 70, was arrested in April and charged with feeding a secret document from the Communist party’s central leadership to “an overseas website”.
Two weeks after her arrest, Ms Gao appeared on state television to “confess” her crimes.
“I believe what I have done touched on legal issues, and has harmed the national interest,” Ms Gao said in the broadcast.
“On this point, what I have done is extremely wrong. I sincerely accept the lesson and plead guilty.”

Chinese journalist charged with leaking state secrets and paraded on TV


'Tell me where my husband is' – wife’s plea to China's Communist Party

In court, however, Ms Gao retracted the confession, saying it had been made under duress. Her son, Zhao Meng, also vanished in April.
Mo Shaoping, her lawyer, said her son has also been charged with leaking state secrets, is being monitored and is currently in Hebei province on an escorted “holiday”.
Police officers and plain-clothed agents forced journalists to leave the area around the No.3 People’s Intermediate Court in Beijing and Ms Gao’s trial was closed to the public because it involved state secrets.
Chinese authorities have not confirmed which document Ms Gao leaked, but some speculated it was “Document No.9”, an internal Communist party memo calling for cadres to be vigilant against Western ideas such as “universal values” and “Western-style journalism”. Mrs Gao faces a maximum sentence of life imprisonment if found guilty.
Ms Gao has been jailed before for “leaking state secrets”. In 1993 she used two anodyne quotations of Deng Xiaoping, China’s former paramount leader, that had not yet been publicly released on the mainland.
Police officers forced journalists to leave the area around the No.3 People’s Intermediate Court (Reuters)
Mr Mo said Ms Gao is suffering from heart complaints and that her trial paused twice to allow her to take an anticoagulant medicine and nitroglycerin to alleviate angina.
“She is being given medicine when she needs it,” he said. “The trial followed the correct procedure, but I do not think there is enough evidence to conclude that she is guilty,” he added.
Last year, 99.9 per cent of Chinese criminal trials ended in conviction.
In a separate case, Ilham Tohti, China's most prominent advocate for the rights of the Muslim Uighur minority, was told he had lost his appeal while in a detention centre in Xinjiang.
Mr Tohti, a 44-year-old former economics professor at Beijing’s Ethnic Minorities university, was jailed for life in September for “separatism”.
Li Fangping, his lawyer, said it was unusual for his appeal to have taken place in prison and that he was unaware of the reason why. Mr Tohti’s family has been left destitute after the court seized all his assets. “The only income is his wife's 3000 yuan (£300) monthly salary. They have a child to raise, so they are short of money,” he said.
Human rights groups denounced both judicial processes. “If Gao Yu and Ilham Tohti were to receive genuinely fair hearings, the charges against them would be dismissed as blatant political persecution,” said William Nee, China researcher at Amnesty International.

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
