2014-10~12
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2014/12/15/just-brainwashing-uighur-photographer-aims-to-change-image-of-xinjiang/

‘Just Brainwashing’: Uighur Photographer Aims to Change Image of Xinjiang - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
The remote region of Xinjiang has seen an upturn in ethnic tension in recent years with sporadic outbreaks of violence between Han Chinese and China’s mostly Muslim Uighur minority. Xinjiang has seen a string of deadly bombings and knife attacks, and the bloodshed has spilled over the regional border into other parts of the country.
The growing level of violence prompted Kurbanjan Samat, a Uighur photographer and cameraman from China Central Television, to write a counternarrative that portrays another side of life in Xinjiang. In his book “I’m from Xinjiang” he has profiled people from the region – from a lawyer to a pilot and a village chief — to show a calmer side of life in Xinjiang. The book has already climbed into the top 10 nonfiction best sellers, according to the Beijing News, which compiles book sales. Mr. Samat has been endorsed by renowned writer and former minister of culture Wang Meng and more recently he was seen on the main evening news meeting one of the nation’s top leaders,
Yu Zhengsheng. Mr. Samat recently sat down with China Real Time to talk about his book, his views on social changes in Xinjiang and how his region is portrayed in the media. Excerpts from a translation of the interview follow:
I’m a documentary cameraman and photographer. I use my camera to communicate. I had been planning a documentary on Xinjiang for some time. If you watch television, the news about Xinjiang is all negative and one-sided. People never understand the region. I was thinking of doing something to show the lives of real people in Xinjiang. I was preparing my documentary when the terror attack on the train station in Kunming [which killed 31 people] occurred on March 1 this year. I was very shocked. I thought I needed to speed up my work and I figured a book would tell the story faster.
I was born in Hotan [in southern Xinjiang]. I didn’t know a word of Chinese until I was 16. I didn’t think I needed to study Chinese. It was a foreign language to me at that time. But I fell in love with a girl who attended a Chinese language school and I wanted to say “I love you” to her. So I started to learn Chinese. It worked quite well, and we were together for 11 years. Later I wanted to live in Beijing but she wanted to stay in Urumqi, so we went our separate ways. Before I joined China Central Television as a professional documentary cameraman, I was in the jade businesses for a while. …I later started to take an interest in photography. ..I want to use to my camera to show the real me and to communicate with others.
You live in Beijing. How do you feel when you visit your hometown?
I can see the changes clearly. There are those who use Islam to achieve their own goals. For them, the more chaotic society is, the better it is for them. They are extremists. Normal people in Hotan are quite honest and simple, and they open their hearts to you. What the extremists do is contrary to Islam.
What is your view of the media’s coverage of Xinjiang?  
Most of the reports are just brainwashing. Actually, 80% of the incidents in Xinjiang are social criminal cases. If they were in Shanghai and not Xinjiang the media’s response would be different. No matter where, there are extremists, certain good people and people in between. Such acts against society and humanity occur in other places and involve other religious groups. This is really sad. But I knew I couldn’t just complain. I had to do something.
Has there been a change in Xinjiang in recent years?
Years ago Xinjiang was portrayed as a good place, with the best pastureland in China. People who had never been to Xinjiang knew of its wonderful fruit and the beautiful ethnic costumes of its people. When the reform and opening up got under way 40 years ago, people were very friendly to us, they treated us as a friend from far away. But after the 1990s, some people from Xinjiang went to other parts of China and took to crime. And then after 2000, there were others who came to Beijing, some of them as drug dealers. It did a lot of damage to our reputation. … In recent years, violence and terrorism have been connected with Xinjiang, and people overlook the region’s beauty.
Can you talk about some of the causes of the problems in Xinjiang ? 
I think partly it is a lack of communication with the outside world. If you travel you find that you become more tolerant. It’s also a matter of economics. Everyone wants to get on board this fast-moving economic train. Those who have been left behind or fallen off find this hard to accept. They often take a very negative view of society and are bitter about their own lives. These people are susceptible to being used by others. The July 5 attack was due to this kind of problem.
Are you concerned that there might be an extremist appeal to people you know?
I am concerned. For example, some people have asked to borrow my mother’s house to study the Koran. They said: “You have a big house and yard. Why not let us use two rooms to study the Koran?” But my mother refused. Those people who teach the Koran often don’t fully understand Islam. How could they teach others? They just let students recite from the book, but it’s very superficial. They don’t understand the concepts. I have two brothers. When they were still in Hotan and I was away, I was afraid they might be used by the extremists since they didn’t go to school. Now they are living in Shenzhen, where it is much more open.
I found that there is a little bit of backsliding in the recent years. The ordinary people there have being influenced by those who want to dress in Islamic clothes. I’m very depressed about this. For example, when I was studying outside of Hotan, I was very happy to go back to my hometown during summer vacation because there were so many beautiful girls in beautiful dresses. But there is less of that now. The whole society is becoming conservative, and this will affect all of us.
Hong Kong Democracy Protests: A Journal of the Final Day
From ‘Mr. Clothes’ to ‘Baobo’: An Expat’s Quest for the Ideal Chinese Name
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

With this memo, I not only strive to reassure you that the CCP’s current strategy in dealing with the Uyghur population in Xinjiang is the right course of action, but also seek to introduce several new policies that might strengthen the party’s grip on the region and address the main underlying problem: Islam itself.
First, I will remind you of the immediate problem of terrorism in China; next, I will explain the specific dangers of Islam and why the Strike Hard campaign should be modified to become a primarily counterterrorist measure; finally, I will propose new policies to improve Uyghur education and general quality of life, as such policies are the only way to reduce religiosity at its very roots. Throughout my proposal, I will also provide counterarguments for those who criticize the CCP’s stance on Islam.
As President of the PRC, you are fully aware that the threat of terrorism has been steadily on the rise; the Kunming stabbings just a year ago, carried out by a group of Uyghur terrorists, left dozens of Chinese civilians dead at a subway station. The recent and long list of terrorist attacks and violent protests in China can almost exclusively be traced back to Xinjiang and the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which your State Council found responsible for more than 200 terrorist attacks between 1990 and 2001. ETIM (a group of Muslim fundamentalists) is a natural consequence of Islam, and its very existence not only threatens the lives of your people, but also undermines the stability of the CCP with every passing day.
Critics of the Strike Hard campaign will argue that China has been overrun by “Islamophobia,” and that violent incidents involving Uyghurs result from a desire for ethnic separatism (after heavy Han migration into Xinjiang) rather than Islam; these critics will also use the common argument that you cannot hold an entire religious group responsible for the actions of a select few “radical” fundamentalists. Although this argument might make sense in a vacuum, the unfortunate truth is that religion instills fundamentalist beliefs on a much wider scale than intellectuals realize, especially in the Muslim world – and the prevalence of such beliefs creates a support system for terrorists. For example, 60% of Jordanians support the terrorist organization Hamas (Pew Research, 2010), and 49% of Muslims worldwide support the Taliban (Pew Research, 2013); this statistic comes as no surprise when so many take as truth Quran verses such as 8:12 - "I will cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve. Therefore strike off their heads and strike off every fingertip of them.”
Therefore, I believe that your Strike Hard campaign is not “Islamophobia,” but rather a decisive attempt to contain the fundamental problem that arises from an Uyghur population: Islam itself.
Though ethnic separatism and religious rhetoric are both voiced, only religious rhetoric escalates to violence.
Stand strong in your condemnation of religion, as you are in the right.
Strike Hard campaigns can be used to restrict threat of terrorism now, and then slowly draw back in ten to twenty years.
Strike Hard as more of a counter terrorist movement than a discriminatory one. Closing mosques and burning books will not change a mental condition that affects the brain. Karl Marx once said, “religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world, and the soul of soulless conditions. It is the opium of the people”.
Australian Police should of waited longer for a peaceful outcome.
There is some dispute about "hearing shots" and then storming the cafe.
Seems the cafe manager wrestled the gunman and the police thought he had been shot.
With half of them escaping and this loon getting tired he would of given up.
2 dead and 4 injured was a total fudge. Questions need to be asked about Police incompetence.
Buy one of Ned's custom Chinese keyboards.
Get one with a "magic e"
ë
The US leaning media like Fox, WSJ, Reuters, Bloomberg, NYT, CNN simply can't afford to see a peaceful Xinjiang. All their news are no more than propagandas to cover up so many negative things about America, like the way the CIA cover up its tortures and abuse of human rights. I join the black Americans calling for a revolution for America.
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
