2014-10~12
http://www.saltlakecitysun.com/index.php/sid/228228217

China's Constitution 'Useless' Without Enforcement: Lawyers - Salt Lake City Sun
Dozens of prominent rights lawyers have signed an open letter calling on the ruling Chinese Communist Party to uphold the rights and freedoms enshrined in the country's constitution, activists said this week.
The letter had garnered more than 100 signatures, more than 60 of them members of China's embattled legal profession, its author told RFA ahead of China's first-ever National Constitution Day on Thursday.
"We wish to see our constitution taken seriously, and protection for human rights and the right of citizens to go about their business in peace to be taken seriously," the letter, penned by rights lawyer Wang Quanping, said.
"This should be the Chinese dream," it said, in a reference to President Xi Jinping's slogan for the country's future.
But it said simply setting aside a day in the calendar to honor the idea of the constitution isn't enough.
"If there is no system to oversee its implementation, and those who are in breach of the constitution aren't investigated and brought to justice, then the constitution will remain outside the legal system," the letter said.
"In such circumstances, the constitution is just a piece of paper filled with empty words, and the Chinese dream becomes the Chinese nightmare," it said.
"The authority of the constitution is turned to waste paper."
Wang said the letter was signed by a broad cross-section of Chinese society.
"There people from as far away as Xinjiang, there are teachers, drivers, waiting staff and barkeeps, university students and office workers," he told RFA. "It's really very broad."
According to Wang, China's civil servants and Communist Party members are becoming more serious about the importance of the constitution.
"Nowadays, Chinese civil servants must take an oath to uphold the constitution, which is a very good thing," Wang said. "But I think this is still rather symbolic."
"People won't really respect the constitution, and it won't really have any authority, until the government actively pursues constitutional rule," he said.
"There are far too many instances of actions that are in breach of the constitution; far too many to count," he said.
He called on China's National People's Congress (NPC) to play an active role in enforcing the principles of free speech and human rights enshrined in the 1980 document.
"Without investigations into those who breach it, the constitution is useless," Wang said.
In Beijing on Thursday, several hundred people with long-running complaints against the ruling Chinese Communist Party were detained after they staged a protest outside the headquarters of state-run broadcaster CCTV, Shanghai-based activist Zhu Jindi said from within the unofficial Jiujingzhuang detention center on the outskirts of Beijing.
"We're in Jiujingzhuang right now; they brought us all here, one bus at a time," Zhu said. "There were 800 people here today, all from Shanghai alone."
"They took my ID card away, and then they started calling our names, one by one, to go in."
She said the protest was timed to coincide with National Constitution Day.
"But as soon as we got out of the subway, the police surrounded and stopped us, and forced us to get on the buses," Zhu said. "China has no rule of law, but we had to come out...if we hadn't, we would be even less likely to get a result."
Earlier this week, two activists in Shanghai unfurled banners in the city's People's Park calling on the government to uphold Article 35 of the constitution.
But petitioner and rights activist Chen Jianfang said she and fellow activist Sun Hongqin were "roughly handled" by four or five police officers, when they were thrown into a police vehicle.
"They used brute force, and one policeman...grabbed me by my hair, and banged my head against something, and bashed my head with his fist," Chen told RFA.
They asked us: "Do you have any qualifications to be talking about the law like that?"
Article 35 states that Chinese citizens enjoy the freedoms of expression, publication, association, movement and protest.
Sun said they were held in a local police station for three hours on Wednesday before being released.
"I had unfurled a banner, and Chen Jianfang took a photo," she said. "They snatched away two banners that I had in my purse."
Eyewitness Tan Lanying said the police had handled the petitioners "with violence."
"As soon as Chen Jianfang took her photo, the police rushed in like mad dogs and snatched their stuff away, and several of them dragged her away and beat her," Tan said.
"There is no guarantee for the personal safety of ordinary people; it's terrible to beat people up just for putting up a banner," she said.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Kolkata, March 18 (IANS) Angry demonstrations, ransacking of a makeshift counter for issuing tickets to members - the iconic Eden Gardens ground is witnessing unprecedented scenes, with fans willing to purchase tickets at even 20 times the printed price to watch Saturday's India-Pakistan World Twenty20 match.
Tickets priced at Rs.500 - the lowest denomination - are being sold near the stadium for Rs.7000-10000. The higher priced tickets of Rs.1000 and 1500 are changing hands at astronomical sums. For instance, Rs.1500 worth tickets are being sold for anything between Rs.15,000 and 20,000.
"The craze seen this time is unprecedented. May be, decades back, scenes close to this were seen on some occasions, but not to this extent," Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) Trustee Board chairman Goutam Dasgupta told IANS on Friday.
On Friday, angry Society for Sports and Stadium gold card members staged a demonstration at the Salt Lake stadium alleging that they were not given their quota of tickets.
These members had shelled out huge amounts to buy the gold cards for construction of the Salt Lake stadium in the early 80s. In return, they were promised life long access to Eden Gardens for cricket matches.
A day before, all hell broke loose at the Netaji Indoor stadium - where a makeshift ticket counter had been set up for the CAB members.
Despite reaching the counter after patiently waiting in the queue for hours, many of the members were told all tickets were exhausted.
The members burst out, some even ransacked the counter. Finally, police had to be called in to restore sanity.
On Friday, an IANS correspondent encountered blackmarketeers roaming close to the stadium posing as street vendors.
Asked whether they could provide tickets, one of them said: "You want some? Come this side," and led the correspondent to a secluded corner.
He showed a Rs.500 denomination ticket. "But you have to pay at least 7000".
"We have received complaints about tickets being sold at a premium near the stadium. We have been conducting raids since yesterday (Thursday). We have detained a few," said a senior Kolkata police officer.
Rohit Seth, a resident of Simla, was peeved for a different reason.
The 30-something youth had purchased a Rs.2500 denomination ticket for the India-Pakistan match, that was originally slated to be played at Dharamsala.
"But when I went to the exchange counter, I was given a Rs.1000 denomination ticket. The person at the counter could not give me any plausible reason about why I was given a lower denomination ticket," Seth told IANS.
With everyone seemingly looking for tickets, many of the CAB officials have gone underground. Some have even kept their mobile phones switched off, and got a new connection for co-ordinating the organisational efforts for the match.
"Earlier, we had a crowd capacity of nearly a lakh. Now this has been brought down to 67,200. Moreover, the tickets prices are also very low for a match of this stature. May be we should have fixed the lowest denomination at 5000," said Dasgupta.
While arrangements were made for over-the-counter-sales for 20,000 CAB members, there were only provisions for online sales for the public at large through bookmyshow.com. But the number of tickets sold through the online window was only 6,000.
"Apart from our members, We have 121 affiliates, various category of current and ex players, coaches, present and former umpires, various committee and sub-committee members, the state government departments, police, utilities and agencies who help us in organising the match, and other stakeholders. We have to provide them a mix of complimentary and priced tickets,' said Dasgupta.
"We were more hard pressed because we had to set aside a part of the tickets for those who did not cancel the tickets after the Dharamsala match, and instead opted for a transfer," said a CAB official.

WASHINGTON - This Tuesday, March 22, when Republicans in Utah caucus to nominate a candidate ...
Tucson - Donald Trump's campaign in Arizona is centered on his hard line against illegal ...
Monday, March 21, 2016 | 8:19 a.m. A son of Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy is ...
<br> <br>SALT LAKE CITY -- We could all use a lift on a Monday, but ...
<br> <br>LOGAN -- Two people from North Logan died in a traffic accident in Idaho ...
Get the latest Salt Lake City Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Salt Lake City Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved