2014-10~12
http://www.neworleanssun.com/index.php/sid/228349959

Eight in China sentenced to death for Xinjiang attacks - New Orleans Sun
• Two sentenced for April 30 attack on train station
BEIJING, China - Eight people in China were on Monday sentenced to death following their conviction in two terror attacks that left at least 46 dead in the restive western region Xinjiang that populates Uighur Muslim-dominated.
Five others were also awarded suspended death sentences by the court in the Xinjiang capital Urumqi where explosions at train station in April and at city's crowded market in May killed 46 people, China Central Television said.
In the last less than 20 months, violent attacks linked to Xinjiang various parts of China have left about 400 people dead. The attacks have been blamed on separatists with foreign support.
Knife-wielding attackers, who were also armed with explosives, on April 30 killed one person and wounded 79 at a train station in Urumqi on the final day of a visit to the area by Chinese President Xi Jinping. Two assailants also died in the violence.
Militants on May 22 lobbed explosives and plowed two vehicles through a market in Urumqi, killing 39 people and wounding 90. Police killed four attackers on the scene.
The minority Uighur Muslims are accusing the Han Chinese-dominated government of cultural imperialism and repressive rule. They have also been complaining of economic disenfranchisement with the inflow of Han Chinese to their homeland. Beijing says it is pumping investments into the region to help it grow.
State television broadcaster China Central TV said two men were sentenced to death in the April train attack.
It quoted the defendants saying that they were instructed by a man outside China to carry out the attack. The broadcaster said the man who instructed the attack was connected to the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a group that China has designated a terrorist organization.
The broadcaster said that six people were sentenced to death on charges of terrorism, use of explosives and endangering public safety for the May 22 attack.
In a separate case, the same court jailed seven minority students of a prominent Uighur scholar for three to eight years after convicting them of separatism, rights lawyer Li Fangping said.
The Munich-based World Uyghur Congress said the sentencing was politically motivated and the accused were not given a fair trial.
"China will never seek the root causes in its extreme (ethnic) policies," Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the Congress, said in a statement.
Paris - England, led by bullocking No 8 Billy Vunipola, confirmed their remarkable transformation from World Cup flops to Six Nations Grand Slam winners when they beat France 31-21 on Saturday.
The victory was Australian coach Eddie Jones' fifth straight win since taking over from Stuart Lancaster, the English having seen off Scotland (15-9), Italy (40-9), Ireland (21-10) and Wales (25-21).
It was England's first Grand Slam since their World Cup-winning year of 2003, when Jones was in charge of losing finalists Australia.
But it was not easy going at the Stade de France for England, who scored three tries through Danny Care, Dan Cole and Anthony Watson with Owen Farrell contributing 16 points with the boot.
A rash of ruck infringements allowed France to keep in the game through scrumhalf Maxime Machenaud, who booted seven penalties in a flawless kicking display.
Machenaud got the scoreboard rolling after Maro Itoje was pinged at a ruck, but Farrell responded immediately when France skipper Guilhem Guirado was penalised for a dangerous tackle.
France delighted a packed stadium by running the ball with intent, Scott Spedding and Virimi Vakatawa, born in South Africa and Fiji respectively, both splitting the English defence only for final passes to go amiss.
Livewire scrumhalf Care, who dictated a fast pace, showed up some lax ruck defence by stepping straight through a gap left by lumbering prop Jefferson Poirot and crossing for a well-taken try, converted by Farrell.
France suffered a blow when Francois Trinh-Duc limped off after 13 minutes to be replaced by Jules Plisson at flyhalf.
Spedding broke through again, with France finally showing their attacking muster after generally failing to fire in tight wins over Italy (23-21) and Ireland (10-9) and defeats by Wales (19-10) and Scotland (29-18).
Machenaud booted his second penalty, but England again came firing back up the pitch, prop Cole bundling over the line for a try Farrell again converted.
England, with Billy Vunipola and flanker James Haskell to the fore, denied wave after wave of home attack, Machenaud keeping France in the game with a third penalty after another ruck infringement.
It was then France's turn to defend and they did so with aplomb as Care marshalled his team from left to right, before two knock-ons undid English efforts.
Machenaud knocked over a fourth penalty to leave the score 17-12 at half-time with Farrell missing his second effort.
France opened the second period with an early charge by Vakatawa, the winger hauled down by opposite number Jack Nowell with the line abegging, Machenaud kicking a fifth penalty to bring the home side within two points.
The tit-for-tat continued as Farrell banged over his own penalty as Guirado strayed offside before Machenaud booted his sixth.
Then came Watson's try after a brilliant break by Care's replacement Ben Youngs, who put a grubber kick into the corner rather than risk a pass, the Bath winger picking up and barging through Wesley Fofana.
From the restart, England again infringed, Machenaud making no mistake from the tee.
France made a raft of changes to the front five, temporarily giving them the upper hand at the scrum, although their line-out was creaking and gifted England vital possession.
Farrell calmed nerves with his third and fourth penalties to ensure England the Grand Slam, having contrived to botch four other occasions to nab the trophy since the Five Nations became Six in 2000.
Paris - England, led by bullocking No 8 Billy Vunipola, confirmed their remarkable transformation from ...
<br>In a move that comes as no surprise, LSU forward Ben Simmons will forgo his ...
St. Tammany, Tangipahoa and Washington parishes are among the 16 additional parishes that have been ...
said the sites will help flood victims determine if they are qualified for the emergency ...
<br>High pressure will bring clear skies and cool temperatures across southeast Louisiana. The highs will ...
Get the latest New Orleans Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 New Orleans Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved