2014-10~12
http://en.ria.ru/world/20141013/194033323/Chinese-Court-Sentences-27-to-Death-Over-July-Massacre-in.html

Chinese Court Sentences 27 to Death Over July Massacre in Xinjiang Province
MOSCOW, October 13 (RIA Novosti) – The Chinese court sentenced 27 people to death, on Monday, over their involvement in a July attack in Xinjiang Province, the Tianshan web portal has reported.
According to Tianshan, 12 of the accused will be hanged while 15 others were sentenced to death with a reprieve of two years. Another nine people were sentenced to life imprisonment, and a further 20 members of the gang received jail terms ranging from four to 20 years.
On July 28, a gang armed with knives attacked a police station and government offices in the Elishku township in Shache county, before moving on to the neighboring Huangdi township, attacking civilians and setting cars on fire.
Thirty seven civilians and 59 terrorists died in the attack, 13 people were injured.
The Chinese leadership is inclined to consider the East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM) responsible for the assaults. Founded in late 1990s, the ETIM is believed to be linked to al-Qaeda and seeks to set up an independent state, so-called "East Turkistan," within China.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.