2014-10~12
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/227522899

22 jailed in China for illegal religious activities - China National News
A court in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region has convicted 22 people for conducting illegal religious activities.
The convicted, who received jail terms of between five and 16 years, were convicted on charges including of inciting ethnic hatred, disrupting social order and rape, Kashgar City People's Court said.
They included "underground imams", or unappointed heads of mosques, as well as imams who continued to hold services after being sacked, according to Xinhua.
Kashgar Mayor Enwaer Tursun said after the trial that Xinjiang had been plagued by religious extremism, which disrupted social order and fed the ideology of terrorism.
New Delhi, March 20 (IANS) Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday opened an exhibition here on how Parsi traders used gains from trade with China to lay the foundation of Mumbai as India's financial capital.
The exhibition, "Painted Encounters: Parsi Traders and the Community", traces through paintings, engravings and photographs the growth of Parsi traders who built ships for trade with Canton in the 19th century.
Parsi merchants hailing from hamlets in Gujarat and rich from the China trade commissioned Indian and European artists to paint portraits and were known patrons of these art forms.
Leading Parsi traders boosted capital accumulation and helped shape 19th century Bombay (now Mumbai) to emerge as an international financial metropolis.
The exhibition has been curated by Pheroza J. Godrej and Firoza Punthakey Mistree.
Another exhibition, "No Parsi is an Island", is a curatorial re-reading of the work of 14 Parsi artists across 150 years. It has been curated by Ranjit Hoskote and Nancy Adajania with Pheroza J. Godrej.
"The Parsi community is an integral and important part of our national history and identity," said Rajeev Lochan, director of the National Gallery of Modern Art where the exhibitions will end on May 29.
"Unfortunately, time and again, they have been regarded as 'others' by many. This exhibition is crucial in highlighting that they are as much a part of our collective past, present and future," he said.

JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
China has set lower targets for improving its energy efficiency by the end of 2020 ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved