2014-10~12
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-10-14/china-court-sentences-12-to-death-for-xinjiang-attacks/5810942

China court sentences 12 people to death for Xinjiang attacks which left almost 100 dead - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)
A Chinese court has sentenced 12 people to death following clashes in the far west of the country that left nearly 100 dead.
Authorities said people had been killed when knife-wielding attackers staged assaults in July in villages outside of Yarkant, in Xinjiang province.
According to official reports, ethnic Uighurs attacked local government buildings.
It was said that 59 assailants were shot dead by police, 37 passers-by died and that 215 people were arrested.
A court in Xinjiang has found the accused guilty of a variety of crimes including terrorism, murder, kidnap and making explosives, according to a statement on the Xinjiang government's news website.
Fifteen others received a suspended death sentence, nine got life imprisonment and 20 others lesser jail terms.
A bloody conflict has been developing in Xinjiang where many ethnic Uighurs seek independence.
The ABC tried to investigate the incidents last month but was denied entry to the area by officials.
Hundreds of people have been killed in the region in the past two years, most in violent clashes between the Muslim Uighur people and ethnic majority Han Chinese.
On Monday, state television said that two "thugs" had stabbed a policewoman to death in Xinjiang on Friday.
The motorcycle-mounted attackers used sharp weapons to "cruelly attack and kill" the policewoman, China Central Television (CCTV) said on its official microblog.
The attack on the policewoman follows the killing of a state-backed Uighur imam in July, incidents that suggest growing antagonism toward Uighurs aligned with the government.
In September, state media said police shot dead 40 rioters, some of whom were seeking to blow themselves up, after explosions in Luntai county.
The government has also blamed attacks in other parts of China, including Beijing, on Islamist militants from Xinjiang.
Chinese authorities have attributed recent violence in the region to Islamist separatists they say are seeking to establish an independent state called East Turkestan.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's own repressive policies in the region, on the borders of Central Asia, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India, have provoked unrest, an accusation the government denies.
Heavy restrictions on journalists in Xinjiang has also made verifying details about incidents difficult.

Topics:
courts-and-trials,


 
 unrest-conflict-and-war,


 
 police,


 
 law-crime-and-justice,


 
 china,


 
 asia


 First posted 
 
 October 14, 2014 01:28:52
 

For information on how you can help, visit abc.net.au/appeals or call 1800 811 700.
If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC.
Malcolm Turnbull has shown crossbench senators the hangman's noose and their minds will now be focused on one thing: survival.
The PM's manoeuvres over the budget, double dissolution and industrial relations legislation have a familiar Turnbullian feel.
Unless you make plans and talk to loved ones you're unlikely to have any say in how and where you die.
In a fast-changing competition, which AFL teams can improve enough to break into this year's top eight?

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.


AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)
