2014-10~12
http://www.womenofchina.cn/womenofchina/html1/news/newsmakers/1410/792-1.htm

Netizens Donate Money to Anti-Terror Policeman for Daughter's Illness - All China Women's Federation
A policeman on the frontier of anti-terror in Kashgar in northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region has received a donation of 500,000 yuan (U.S. $81,634) after the information of his daughter's illness was spread on Weibo (Chinese version of Twitter) on August 4.
Simayi Kuwan's 9-year-old daughter Ally was diagnosed with leukemia in June this year. Currently, Ally is still receiving medical treatment at the Beijing Children's Hospital.
Simayi felt very sorry for his daughter because he and his wife Rehanguli, both of whom are police officers, were extremely busy with their work because of a number of terrorist attacks in Xinjiang and had no time to take care of their daughter.
On May 22, an attack at a supermarket in the regional capital city of Urumqi killed 39 and injured 94, the deadliest terrorist attack since 2009. After the market attack on May 22, China began a year-long anti-terror campaign, focusing primarily on Xinjiang. In June, police broke 32 terrorist groups and made more than 380 arrests.
"If we had paid more attention to her, she would not get the disease," Simayi sighed. The father remembered clearly that his daughter had asked him to go to the cinema with her many times, but he hadn't realized her dream to date due to his work.
"I will do everything I can to cure her," Simayi cried from his heart.
With a friend's help, Ally was sent to the Beijing Children's Hospital on July 4, where doctors told the couple that they were very hopeful about Ally's chance of recovery if she underwent a bone marrow transplant.
The couple first rented an apartment near the hospital. When the owner heard that Simayi is an anti-terror policeman in Xinjiang, he lowered the rent from 3,500 yuan (U.S. $571.5) to 3,200 yuan (U.S. $522.5), but it was still a big burden for the family.
After settling down in Beijing, Rehanguli stayed to accompany their daughter, while Simayi had to return to work in Kashgar. In addition, he had to collect as much as 500,000 yuan (U.S. $81,634) for their daughter's medical treatment in his hometown.
Simayi had planned to sell their apartment, but due to constant terrorist attacks, it was hard for him to find a buyer.
Learning about his plight, Simayi's colleagues actively donated money to him, and the leader of the local public security bureau said they would try all means to help save his daughter.
On the evening of August 4, Cui Dai, a chief of the local public security bureau posted information about Simayi's daughter on Weibo, including her photos in bed at the hospital, seeking financial donations. Beyond their expectations, 17 hours later, they had received a donation of 100,000 yuan (U.S. $16,328) from netizens.
On August 6, the information was also posted on China Central Television (CCTV)'s official Weibo, inspiring more netizens to donate money to the girl. Within 48 hours of Cui Dai posting the information, they received almost 500,000 yuan (U.S. $81,634) from 1,979 netizens and police officers across the country.
Simayi was excited about the news and told netizens on Cui's Weibo account that he would go to Beijing with the donated money and as the money was enough for the surgery, he would not be asking for any more donations. He then expressed his thanks to them.
Actually, Ally needed a total amount of 1 million yuan (U.S. $163,281) for her medical treatment. Learning about this, another group of entrepreneurs donated 200,000 yuan (U.S. $32,656) to the girl.
Simayi told the stories about the donations to Ally in the hospital. Although she did not know clearly about her disease, she knew that her condition was severe. "I will try my best to recover and then help others just like those who have helped me," Ally said.
Please understand that womenofchina.cn,a non-profit, information-communication website, cannot reach every writer before using articles and images. For copyright issues, please contact us by emailing: website@womenofchina.cn. The articles published and opinions expressed on this website represent the opinions of writers and are not necessarily shared by womenofchina.cn. 
Copyright 2005-2014 All rights reserved. Women's Foreign Language Publications of China.  Email: website@womenofchina.cn