2014-10~12
http://freepressjournal.in/china-pakistan-to-build-economic-corridor/

China, Pakistan to build economic corridor | Freepress Journal
Beijing: China and Pakistan vowed to advance joint efforts to build a bilateral economic corridor as the leaders of the two countries signed an outline of the long-term plan of the project here.
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif witnessed the signing of the outline after their meeting in Beijing, Xinhua reported.
Calling the China-Pakistan economic corridor a “flagship” project to strengthen China’s connectivity with neighbouring countries, Li said the initiative set the strategic framework for pragmatic cooperation between the two countries.
The two nations should facilitate the development of Gwadar Port in southwestern Pakistan, strengthen cooperation in energy and electricity projects and plan industrial parks along the corridor, he said.
The China-Pakistan economic corridor was proposed in an agreement reached during Li’s visit to Pakistan in May 2013. It is aimed at connecting Kashgar in China’s Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region with the Gwadar Port in Pakistan’s Balochistan province.
The two countries also signed documents on cooperation in areas like technologies, energy, finance, industrial parks and communications Saturday.
Li said more than 20 agreements were signed during Sharif’s visit. China is ready to establish “a community of common destiny” with its neighbour, he added.
Sharif also welcomed Chinese investment in Pakistan and promised to ensure the safety of Chinese people and institutions in his country.

Next Article »
Shiv Sena frowns over inducting Suresh Prabhu in union cabinet



 
 
 
 Dr. Sanjay Deshmukh, vice chancellor of Mumbai University, speaks of the many paradigm shifts that are now needed. Shraddha Kamdar… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 A couple of years ago, we had published an article that essentially reproducted an email sent to us by valued… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 The latest political crisis in Uttarakhand underlines the loosening grip of the Congress leadership on the party. Since power is… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 We all know the difficulties that surround any effort to improve relations between India and Pakistan. The problems are embedded… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 The PPF rate cut will cause less dismay if inflation is also kept low and stable. Ever since the financial… 

 Read more…  


Copyright © 2016 . All Rights Reserved. Maintained by Designwell Infotech