2014-10~12
http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/world-digest-dec-8-2014/2014/12/08/1bc38e70-7eef-11e4-81fd-8c4814dfa9d7_story.html

World Digest: Dec. 8, 2014 - The Washington Post
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
U.S.-led NATO troops closed their operational command in Afghanistan on Monday, lowering flags in a ceremony to mark the formal end of their combat mission in a country still mired in war 13 years after the ouster of the Taliban regime.
The closing of the command, which oversaw the day-to-day operations of coalition combat forces, is one of the final steps in a transition to a support and training role that begins Jan. 1. But with President Obama’s recent move authorizing U.S. forces in Afghanistan to carry out military operations against Taliban and al-Qaeda targets, America’s longest war will continue for at least two years.
Obama’s decision to give U.S. forces a more active role than previously envisioned suggests that the United States is still concerned about the Afghan government’s ability to fight a resilient insurgency.
As the International Security Assistance Force’s Joint Command lowered its flag in Kabul, the Taliban carried out yet another attack, killing a police officer and four civilians at a police station in southern Afghanistan.
A Chinese court on Monday sentenced eight people to death on charges of leading terrorist groups and setting off explosives in two attacks that left 46 people dead in the far-western region of Xinjiang, home to many minority Muslim Uighurs, state media said.
The court also handed out suspended death sentences to five others, China Central Television said, without mentioning when the trials were held.
In a separate case, the court jailed seven minority students of prominent Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti for three to eight years after convicting them of separatism, rights lawyer Li Fangping said.
Violence linked to Xinjiang has killed about 400 people in and outside the region in the past 20 months. Beijing has blamed the attacks on radical separatists with foreign ties, although critics and human rights advocatessay Uighurs have chafed under the repressive rule of the Han Chinese-dominated government.
Most of the attacks have been mounted against state targets, such as police stations and military checkpoints, but assailants also have struck at civilians.
Egyptian security forces raided a bathhouse and arrested 25 men suspected of homosexuality, dragging them naked out of the Cairo building, an official said Monday.
The raid was part of an ongoing crackdown on gay men and comes after a court last month convicted eight men of “inciting debauchery” for appearing in an alleged same-sex wedding party on a Nile boat, sentencing each to three years in prison.
Egyptian law does not explicitly prohibit consensual same-sex relations, but gay men are prosecuted and imprisoned on charges such as “debauchery” and “shameless public acts.”
The raid on the bathhouse, or hammam, occurred Sunday in the Ramses neighborhood, said the official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to the media. He said the bathhouse owner was suspected of renting the place out specifically to homosexuals.
Israeli election campaign kicks off as parliament is dissolved: Lawmakers in Israel unanimously voted to dissolve parliament, officially ending the legislature’s term two years ahead of schedule and kicking off the country’s election campaign ahead of a March 17 vote. The dissolution comes a week after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s coalition government — riven by differences — disintegrated.
Canada to train Ukrainian military police: Canada’s defense minister said troops from his country are arriving in Ukraine to help train its military police. The training is part of an agreement that Defense Minister Rob Nicholson signed in Kiev pledging Canadian help in the face of Russian aggression. Nicholson would not specify the number of trainers or the duration of their deployment in Ukraine.
We will update you when news breaks about the virus.
Success! Check your inbox for details. You might also like:
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses!
Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games!
Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve.