2014-10~12
http://shanghaiist.com/2014/10/01/pigeons-receive-anal-security-check.php

Pigeons to receive 'Anal Security Check' for China's National Day: Shanghaiist
China appears to be taking security very seriously for this year's National Day, with plans to complete anal security checks on pigeons, according to a tweet from People's Daily. The tweet, which comes from an official newspaper of the Communist Party, was sent on Tuesday night, ahead of the 65th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China.
10,000 pigeons go through anal security check for suspicious objects Tue, ready to be released on National Day on Wed pic.twitter.com/HitEpLMv8o
Beijing has a long history of pigeon flying and has also developed its own art form, which involves attaching something called a 'pigeon whistle' to the leg of the bird and creating music when the pigeon flies, writes Sinosphere.
A man named Mr. Yang provided some support for the security measure, "I have not heard of pigeons released at National Day requiring security checks, but it is possible for them to carry things such as explosives," he said on China Pigeon Net. Mr Yang likened the process to airplane security checks, adding that "If they carried out security checks they would find them (explosives), just like on a person when they get on an airplane."
Security has become an issue that the Chinese government has taken a more thoughtful approach to in the past year, following a series of attacks in China's western regions. In March, 31 civilians were killed and over 140 people were injured after a Xinjiang separatist attack at Kunming train station. May then saw the deadliest terrorist attack in China since 2009 when 39 people were killed and 94 injured in an attack at a market in Urumqi.
Many may feel that the government has missed the mark on this occasion, however, if comments on twitter are anything to go by.
@PDChina The Chinese government is a total nightmare. What kinda of twisted sick freaks are in charge over there ?
@PDChina suspicious objects...now i'm getting weird images in my head of what would fit in a pigeon. Poor pigeon.
@PDChina @comradewong What morons are running our propaganda now? You guys are writing stories on bird shit rather than #OccupyCentral?
Sign up for Shanghaiist Daily, which will deliver the day's most popular stories to your inbox at 5 p.m. every day!
Plus, you can always follow Shanghaiist on Twitter and Facebook! Questions? Comments? Suggestions? Email us at tips(at)shanghaiist(dot)com