2014-10~12
http://us.india.com/news/india/china-accuses-american-hand-behind-hong-kong-protests-169983/

China accuses American hand behind Hong Kong protests | Latest News & Gossip on Popular Trends at India.com
Beijing, Oct 11: Accusing the US of “manipulating” the pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong, China today claimed that an American official, who was linked to the Tibetan and Xinjiang’s separatist movements, met with key protest leaders. ”Louisa Greve, a director of the National Endowment for Democracy of the US (NED), was already meeting with the key people from ‘Occupy Central’ several months ago, to talk about the movement,” a commentary in the ruling Communist Party of China’s flagship newspaper, the People’s Daily online, said today, citing media reports. Greve, the Vice President of NED, is responsible for its Asia, Middle East and North Africa programmes.
“For many years, her name has frequently appeared on reports about ‘Tibetan independence’, ‘Eastern Turkestan’, ‘democracy movement’ and other forces destabilising Chinese affairs and interfering with the Chinese government,” it said alleging an American hand in Hong Kong protests. Greve also hosted or participated in conferences about the “Arab spring” and the “Colour Revolutions” of other regions, it said.
“It is hardly likely that the US will admit to manipulating the ‘Occupy Central’ movement, just as it will not admit to manipulating other anti-China forces,” it said. The commentary further said that US justifies such activities under the garb of “democracy”, “freedom”, “human rights” and “other values”.
“The results of US interruptions in ‘Colour Revolutions’ have hardly been a success. The ‘Arab spring’ turned to be an ‘Arab winter’ and Ukraine’s ‘street politics’ have resulted in secession and conflict. There is little evidence of any real democracy in these countries, but the US turns a blind eye,” it added. Meanwhile, protests in Hong Kong intensified today after government called off talks with pro-democracy leaders. Hong Kong is witnessing some of the biggest protests in its recent history after a rule stipulated by China necessitated prior screening of all candidates, who are to take part in elections for the post of Chief Executive of the former British colony.
“Three former US consul-general in Hong Kong recently united to publish an open letter criticising the nomination committee system for the Hong Kong chief executive. This simply made the political situation in Hong Kong even worse,” the paper said. ”It is inevitable that these new moves on part of the US government, non-governmental organisations and media will be associated with the US involvement in the ‘Colour Revolutions’ in the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Middle East, North Africa and elsewhere,” it said.
“The US may enjoy the sweet taste of interfering in other countries’ internal affairs, but on the issue of Hong Kong it stands little chance of overcoming the determination of the Chinese government to maintain stability and prosperity,” it said. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei yesterday expressed strong dissatisfaction with a US congressional report supporting the unlawful “Occupy Central” protests.
The Congressional-executive Commission on China released an annual report on Thursday saying US should follow Hong Kong’s democratic movement, enhance exchanges with the region and deploy senior officials there.
Lei criticised the report, saying it attacks China’s human rights record, distort facts and is fraught with bias on China’s internal affairs. ”We firmly oppose it,” Lei told a press briefing, adding, “We demand that the committee stop damaging China-US ties.” ”No foreign government, organisation or individual has the right to get involved in Hong Kong’s affairs, which were a purely internal matter for China,” Lei added.
Copyright © 2016. India WebPortal Private Limited. All Rights Reserve