2014-10~12
http://www.japanherald.com/index.php/sid/228053493

China Rebukes Turkey Over Uighur Refugees - Japan Herald
China on Friday lashed out at Turkey for offering shelter to roughly 200 Uighurs from the western Chinese region of Xinjiang. They were rescued from a human-smuggling camp in Thailand.
Thai police found the group in March and Chinese officials identified "dozens" of them as Uighurs, a Muslim people from Xinjiang who speak a Turkic language. Many Uighurs chafe at government curbs on their culture and religion.
Turkey's state-run Anadolu news agency on Wednesday reported a request by Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu for Thailand to send the Uighurs there, a move that angered China, which views their move to Thailand as "illegal immigration."
Asked for a response on Turkey's offer, China's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said the case was a matter for China and Thailand and "the relevant country" should stop interfering.
"We urge the relevant country to immediately stop meddling in placement work for the relevant case, be cautious with words and actions and not send out mistaken signals that connive in, and even support, illegal immigration activities," Hua said in a faxed statement to Reuters.
"Illegal immigration activities disrupt the normal orderly flow of people internationally, harm the interests of the international community, and can harm security of the relevant countries and regions," Hua added.
Small numbers of Uighurs trickling out of China to Southeast Asia are believed to go overland into Laos or Myanmar, before going to Thailand and elsewhere.
Turkey is home to thousands of Uighurs who have fled Xinjiang since the Chinese Communists took over the region in 1949. It has projected itself as a stable Muslim democracy, a key player at a time of turmoil and unrest in the Middle East.
"I brought the issue to the notice of the Thai foreign minister in New York and the Chinese foreign minister in Beijing as well, and told them Turkey wants to shelter those Uighurs," Anadolu cited Foreign Minister Cavusoglu as saying.
Thai immigration officials declined to comment and the Thai foreign ministry did not respond immediately to a Reuters query.
In the past two years, hundreds of people have been killed in unrest in Xinjiang, prompting a crackdown by authorities. Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say China's repressive policies have provoked the violence, but Beijing denies this.
China blames attacks in Xinjiang and elsewhere on Islamist militants from the region, saying those with ties to overseas groups want to set up a separate state called East Turkistan.
Amposta - Thirteen people were killed and 44 injured on Sunday when a bus carrying foreign exchange students crashed in northeastern Spain, local authorities said.
All the dead were female, according to a regional government source who requested anonymity.
The students were on a European exchange programme in Catalonia and were from 16 different countries including Britain, Ukraine, Switzerland, Sweden, but also Japan and New Zealand, said regional government official Jordi Jane.
The casualties' nationalities was not immediately known, said Jane, revising down an earlier death toll of 14.
The accident occurred just before 06:00 (05:00 GMT) near the small town of Freginals, about 150km south of Barcelona as the bus was returning from a hugely popular traditional festival in the eastern city of Valencia.
The driver "hit the railing on the right and swerved to the left so violently that the bus veered onto the other side of the highway", Jane said.
The bus then hit a car coming in the opposite direction, injuring two people inside, he added.
An AFP photographer at the scene said many fire trucks were on site, as were three hearses and a heavy-lift crane.
The car's front was smashed in, and the bus was lying on its side after the accident.
The bus was carrying 57 people in all, including the driver.
Spain's national radio station RNE spoke to the son of the owner of the company that chartered the bus, who said his father was driving another bus in front of the one that crashed - one of a total of five vehicles ferrying students back from Valencia.
"All of a sudden, he stopped seeing it in his rear-view mirror. He stopped at the next service area, called the driver, but he didn't pick up," said the son, named only as Raul.
He added that his father then asked passengers in his own bus to call those in the other vehicle, and that is when he got news of the accident.
"The driver is in a state of shock, but he's okay physically," he added.
Catalonia's high court said in a statement that an initial probe revealed that "the bus driver tested negative for drugs and alcohol".
The accident is one of the deadliest in Spain in recent years.
In November 2014, a bus carrying pilgrims fell into a ravine in the southeast of the country, leaving 14 dead and another 41 injured.
Spain's Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy tweeted his concern on Sunday.
"My condolences to the families of the victims and I wish rapid recovery to the injured," he wrote.
Interior Minister Jorge Fernandez Diaz was on his way to Catalonia, his ministry said, to oversee work currently underway to identify and repatriate the victims.
Catalonia's newly-elected president Carles Puigdemont, meanwhile, was also due to visit the crash site after he cancelled a planned trip to Paris.
Singapore / Tokyo, Mar.21 (ANI): Subway is the most important transport system in Singapore with ...
Amposta - Thirteen people were killed and 44 injured on Sunday when a bus carrying ...
Monday, 21 March ' The Director-General, Irina Bokova, inaugurated the new premises of the Division ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Raghuram Rajan said on ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Forty percent of India's population may not have drinking water ...
Get the latest Japan Herald headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Japan Herald - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved