2014-10~12
http://www.scmp.com/lifestyle/food-wine/article/1607840/farmed-and-dangerous

Farmed and dangerous | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Afghan growers are ignoring Taliban threats and supplying Hong Kong importer and restaurateur Todd Darling with a wealth of organic produce
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
F&B entrepreneur Todd Darling is a hardened traveller, but a recent trip to Afghanistan was even out of his comfort zone. While many organic food evangelists are willing to go far in search of produce, few are willing to travel in an armoured car with a security detail.
"There was a brief moment of doubt as I was leaving [Istanbul, where he obtained his visa], but at that point it was too late," Darling, 35, says.
"When I stepped out on to the tarmac in Afghanistan, I had feelings of acceptance and excitement. I didn't know what to expect after the war and chaos. I was overwhelmed by the sophistication, the sense of history, of culture, of religion."
Darling travelled to Mazar-i-Sharif, home to the Blue Mosque, a revered site for Sunni Muslims. There he met farmers who had been bypassed by the 1970s green and chemical revolutions that transformed farming throughout much of the rest of Asia. He knew much of the food would be organic by default because Afghan farmers had never had the opportunity to use chemical fertilisers.
Darling had a further motive in buying Afghan produce: "I wanted to find some farmers and pay them higher prices than the Taliban could offer for opium poppies," he says.
He was made aware of the farmers' plight by the Hummingfish Foundation, an NGO that works to develop sustainable businesses in developing Asian countries such as East Timor, and most recently Afghanistan.
Even when farmers defy the pressures or temptations to grow opium poppies, the only option they have is to sell their fruit crops to the Pakistani importers that dominate the market. The crops travel down routes punctuated by Taliban road blocks, where the group extorts cash from the farmers.
The idea of buying direct from the farmers fits in with the ethical practices of Darling's company, Homegrown Foods, which sources organic produce from small, family farms, open to inspection. The northern Afghan farmers he dealt with ticked all of those boxes.
"I'm impressed by how passionate the Afghans are about the land, the environment and wildlife," he says. "They have a good understanding of the dynamics of conventional versus organic agriculture."
Originally from New York, Darling was 17 when he started in the restaurant business. His father and grandfather both worked in fashion and garments; Darling describes them as "entrepreneurial spirits in a different industry".
He has been in Hong Kong since 2003 - opening the Italian-American restaurant, Posto Publicco, in Elgin Street, Central, in 2009. His company, which also runs Stone Nullah Tavern, in Wan Chai, will reopen the casual Italian restaurant, Linguini Fini, in Elgin Street in November. However, for Darling it's his wholesale and retail organic food business, started in 2010, that he holds most dear; he calls it "my baby".
He spends most of his time on the enterprise, sourcing produce - mostly from the New Territories, and a Hong Kong farmer who relocated to southwest China. This year, Darling has twice travelled to East Timor in search of coffee, and to Italy and Switzerland for olive oil and vinegar.
Last year Darling travelled to China in search of apples. "I went to Xinjiang and it blew my mind," he says. "I loved the wilds, the Uighur people, and the food is amazing. But the apples - I'm from the US and we're proud of our apples - but these were 1 1/2 pounds [about 700 grams] each and so sweet I had difficulty finishing them."
He plans to return after the first fruit appear in November.
While there is an element of danger for Afghan farmers selling produce to Darling, he says everything in Afghanistan is dangerous, and that the farmers are also fierce warriors. Balkh province is now under Northern Alliance control and was a part of the country where the Taliban never really managed to get the local population to submit to their will. (The Northern Alliance has generally opposed the Taliban in the post-Soviet era.) There's no religious police and some activities banned by the Taliban - kite flying and listening to music on the radio - have returned with a vengeance.
Darling says: "As far as I could tell, Afghan women were wearing burqas with not even their face exposed, but it seems like there are a lot of tourists and women in Western clothing with headscarves. I didn't get the impression of the people feeling oppressed."
Yet danger is an ever-present element. Even in an armoured car, most sightseeing was out of the question for Darling, as was visiting farms, so the farmers had to come to him.
He met five farmers, but had in-depth, video recorded discussions over two days with three of them. He describes that process as the company's "due diligence", and adds: "Normally, we rely on farmers with organic certification. There is no certification in Afghanistan to rely on, so we're making an exception in this case."
Darling hopes to import about 20 varieties of fruit and nuts - some sold to restaurants, some through his company's retail website.
He was shown three types of walnut and three types of almond, as well as 13 varieties of grape, and the resulting raisins, along with figs, honey, teas, spices, herbs and local fruit infusions - fruit syrups with no added sugars. That list isn't so different from his average breakfast on this trip.
"Breakfast was grapes and mulberries with fresh curds and a drizzle of honey on top with almonds mixed in: the quality of food is amazing."
Darling was especially impressed by the quality of the grapes: the harsh environment gives them a delicate skin.
Other meals had at least 12 dishes served with rice and round flat breads. Sometimes the bread was stuffed with minced meats, sometimes the minced meat came in dumplings. There was always a fresh, chopped salad of tomatoes, cucumber, onion and herbs as a palate refresher; the meat and rice dish - known as plov or pilaf, was another staple.
He never met the women who prepared his food, but the meal times with his male hosts - focused on talk about farming, food, religion and politics - was "fascinating"; there was always plenty of much-welcomed tea in the 45 to 48 degree Celsius heat.
He's already decided that on his next trip, he will leave with his crops by train - through Tajikistan and Xinjiang province, following part of the Silk Road route.