2014-10~12
http://newsdaily.com/2014/12/chinas-top-judge-urges-swift-severe-sentences-in-xinjiang/

World News | NewsDaily
LONDON (Reuters) – British Prime Minister David Cameron backed his embattled finance minister George Osborne on Monday in a bid to stem a bout of infighting triggered by the resignation of a senior minister. Cameron’s Conservative Party, already divided over a forthcoming referendum on membership of the European Union, descended into chaos over the weekend after Work and Pensions Secretary…
HAVANA (Reuters) – U.S. President Barack Obama pushed Cuba to improve its record on democracy and human rights as he met with President Raul Castro on a historic visit to the Communist island on Monday, but Castro responded by decrying U.S. “double standards”. Obama said the two had “frank and candid” discussions about human rights as well as areas of…
UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) – Morocco has asked the United Nations to close a military liaison office in the disputed territory of Western Sahara as a spat between Rabat and the U.N. chief over his recent remarks escalates, a U.N. spokesman said on Monday. Dozens of U.N. international staffers pulled out of their Western Sahara mission, known as MINURSO, on Sunday…
BRUSSELS (Reuters) – The only suspected participant in Nov. 13 Paris attacks to be captured alive has been cooperating with police investigators and is “worth his weight in gold”, his lawyer said on Monday. Belgium’s Interior Minister, Jan Jambon, said the country was on high alert for a possible revenge attack following the capture of 26-year-old Salah Abdeslam in a…
COTONOU (Reuters) – Benin’s prime minister conceded defeat to businessman Patrice Talon on Monday as preliminary results from a presidential run-off election gave the cotton magnate an insurmountable lead, paving the way for a peaceful transition of power. Talon faced off against Prime Minister Lionel Zinsou on Sunday in a poll to decide which of the two would replace President…
BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) – Argentina and the United States will resume sharing intelligence on money flows to bolster the fight against drug gangs and organized crime, an Argentine official said on Monday, days ahead of a state visit by U.S. President Barack Obama. Information sharing between the Argentine and U.S. financial intelligence units was suspended last year, during the final…
GENEVA (Reuters) – The fate of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is not part of the negotiations with the opposition, the head of the Syrian government’s delegation said on Monday, insisting that counter-terrorism efforts remained the priority for Damascus. Bashar Ja’afari, speaking to reporters at the start of a second week of talks with U.N. Special Envoy Staffan de Mistura, accused…
GENEVA (Reuters) – The United States on Monday rejected Russia’s call for an urgent meeting over violations of Syria’s three-week cessation of hostilities, saying that its concerns were already being handled in a constructive manner. Russia’s general staff of the armed forces proposed on Monday to hold an urgent meeting with U.S. representatives to agree on the mechanism of controlling…
OTTAWA (Reuters) – The new United Nations refugee chief said on Monday he was seeking more money from East Asian nations as well as private donors to help cope with major refugee crises in the Middle East and Africa. “We want to really convince the world that refugee assistance cannot be the responsibility just of the countries that are next…
LONDON (Reuters) – The row over Europe inside David Cameron’s Conservative party may have thwarted the ambitions of staunchly pro-EU finance minister George Osborne to succeed him as prime minister. Just three months before a June 23 referendum on EU membership, Europe is causing mayhem within Cameron’s divided party and has now damaged Osborne, his closest political ally. Once cast…
Recommend NewsDaily on a variety of social networks to help spread the word.
Get the latest news with our free email newsletters, updated daily and weekly. Or view hourly updated newsfeeds in your RSS reader.
Let us know what you think of the new NewsDaily. We’re listening and working to make your experience better.

 NewsDaily -- a service of the science news site ScienceDaily -- is an automated general news site featuring breaking stories
 from major news wires, newspapers, and other sources across the world.
 


About ScienceDaily/NewsDaily  | 
 Advertise  | 
 Privacy  | 
 Terms of Use  | 
 Contact Us  | 
 COPYRIGHT


 Copyright © 2013 SCIENCEDAILY, LLC, AND/OR ITS LICENSED SOURCES. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.


 Note: Views expressed on NewsDaily do not necessarily reflect those of ScienceDaily or its staff.
