2014-10~12
http://www.russiaherald.com/index.php/sid/228349959

Eight in China sentenced to death for Xinjiang attacks - Russia Herald
• Two sentenced for April 30 attack on train station
BEIJING, China - Eight people in China were on Monday sentenced to death following their conviction in two terror attacks that left at least 46 dead in the restive western region Xinjiang that populates Uighur Muslim-dominated.
Five others were also awarded suspended death sentences by the court in the Xinjiang capital Urumqi where explosions at train station in April and at city's crowded market in May killed 46 people, China Central Television said.
In the last less than 20 months, violent attacks linked to Xinjiang various parts of China have left about 400 people dead. The attacks have been blamed on separatists with foreign support.
Knife-wielding attackers, who were also armed with explosives, on April 30 killed one person and wounded 79 at a train station in Urumqi on the final day of a visit to the area by Chinese President Xi Jinping. Two assailants also died in the violence.
Militants on May 22 lobbed explosives and plowed two vehicles through a market in Urumqi, killing 39 people and wounding 90. Police killed four attackers on the scene.
The minority Uighur Muslims are accusing the Han Chinese-dominated government of cultural imperialism and repressive rule. They have also been complaining of economic disenfranchisement with the inflow of Han Chinese to their homeland. Beijing says it is pumping investments into the region to help it grow.
State television broadcaster China Central TV said two men were sentenced to death in the April train attack.
It quoted the defendants saying that they were instructed by a man outside China to carry out the attack. The broadcaster said the man who instructed the attack was connected to the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a group that China has designated a terrorist organization.
The broadcaster said that six people were sentenced to death on charges of terrorism, use of explosives and endangering public safety for the May 22 attack.
In a separate case, the same court jailed seven minority students of a prominent Uighur scholar for three to eight years after convicting them of separatism, rights lawyer Li Fangping said.
The Munich-based World Uyghur Congress said the sentencing was politically motivated and the accused were not given a fair trial.
"China will never seek the root causes in its extreme (ethnic) policies," Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the Congress, said in a statement.
Helsinki - The witches are out, but don't despair. Instead of casting evils spells, they wish you well, although you'd better have some chocolate or candy handy just in case.
Every year before Easter, small colourful witches appear on Finnish doorsteps in a blend of eastern and western religious traditions related to spring. They hand over catkin branches, reciting healthy wishes in exchange for payment that is traditionally chocolate or other candies.
"A twig for you, a treat for me!" 8-year-old sorcerer Isara chants, waving her magic catkin wand decorated with coloured paper strips and feathers. In exchange, the red-and-black spotted-faced witch eagerly receives a handful of chocolate eggs, which she stuffs into a copper coffee pot.
"The most important thing are the sweets," her 8-year-old friend Linda said on Sunday, swishing her catkin branch.
On the northeastern periphery of Europe, the Finnish version of trick-or-treat reflects the Nordic country's straddling of East and West, combining the Russian Orthodox tradition of blessing cattle and farms with branches of pussy willow and the Swedish custom of dressing up as witches before Easter.
On Palm Sunday, little girls don long, flowing skirts and wrap bright scarves around faces freckled with soot and red spots.
Ethnologists say Finland's Easter practices came from the eastern region of Karelia, where Russian traditions were strong even when it was a part of Finland. Farmers in Karelia for centuries have taken pussy willows in lieu of palm leaves to their neighbours on Palm Sunday as a gesture of blessing.
The tradition of children dressing up as witches came to Finland from Sweden, where since the early 19th century they went door-to-door with drawings that were exchanged for treats.
Finland, which shares a 1 300km border with its huge eastern neighbour Russia, was a semi-autonomous grandy ducy in the Czarist Empire for a century before gaining independence in 1917. Before that, Finland was part of the Swedish kingdom for seven centuries.
But it wasn't until the 1970s that the two traditions blended, with witches reciting a rhyme wishing good health for all in the household, reminding them of their duty to repay them with Easter eggs or other treats.
Today's witches, instead of traditional scarves, often wear pointed witch hats in the Anglo-Saxon tradition. Some even don masks, aping Halloween costumes.
MOSCOW, Russia - Search operations that lasted for hours at the Rostov-on-Don airport ended with ...
A court in Russia's southern region of Rostov appears to have found the Ukrainian pilot ...
As the European Union and Turkey were negotiating an agreement last week to ease the ...
A Russian court is due on March 21 to begin delivering the verdict in the ...
Investigators in southern Russia say a flight recorder recovered from the FlyDubai passenger jet that ...
Get the latest Russia Herald headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Russia Herald - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved