2014-10~12
http://www.thestar.com.my/News/Nation/2014/10/08/Uighurs-Human-rights/

Don't deport Uighurs, say human rights groups - Nation | The Star Online
Some 155 Uighur illegal immigrants including 76 children were found cramped in two apartment units in Taman Bukit Jalil on Oct 3.
PETALING JAYA: Human rights groups have urged the Government not to deport 155 undocumented Uighur migrants including 76 children back to China as they might face persecution there.
Lawyers for Liberty (LFL) executive director Eric Paulsen said that the migrants should not be forcibly deported until more information can be ascertained as to why they left China in the first place and whether they are entitled to international protection. 
“Even though Malaysia is not a signatory to the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees, Malaysia is still bound by international law not to forcibly deport the arrested Uighurs back to China as typically, those who were returned face severe persecution, including arrest, disappearance and torture,” he said in a statement Tuesday.
The Immigration Department raided two apartment units in Taman Bukit Jalil near here last Wednesday to discover the 155 illegals from China’s Xinjiang province.
In the raid 65 of them, including 32 children, were crammed into one unit on the 12th floor while in the second unit on the first floor, immigration officers found another 90 Uighurs, including 44 children.
All of them are being detained at the Kuala Lumpur Immigration lock-up in Jalan Duta for further investigations.
Security at all immigration checkpoints in Malaysia has been tightened following a report in The Jakarta Post that four Chinese Uighur militants linked to the Islamic State (IS) terror group had transited in Malaysia before being arrested in Indonesia.
“In order to assess whether the Uighurs are refugees fleeing persecution, our immigration authorities must grant them immediate access to UNHCR so that they may seek asylum and have refugee status determined,” said Paulsen.
Suaram executive director, Yap Swee Seng called on the government to work with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and allow UNHCR immediate access to them in order to determine the ground of them fleeing the country and their eligibility to refugee status.
He said that in Dec 2012, the Malaysian government deported six Uighurs to China while UNHCR were processing their refugee claims.
UNHCR spokesperson in Kuala Lumpur, Yante Ismail said they did not have any first hand information on the Uighurs but will be contacting the relevant authorities to seek further information.
The mostly Muslim Uighur people are a Turkic ethnic group living mainly in the Xinjiang province of China.
They allege discrimination by the government in economic and cultural matters among other thing.
China regularly blames separatists from Xinjiang for carrying out terror attacks in the country, including a stabbing spree at a train station in Yunnan province that saw 31 people killed and another 140 injured in March. 

Tags / Keywords:
Uighurs
 , 
 human rights groups
 , 
 Deportation
 , 
 Malaysia


Malaysian student denied entry into Russia, spends 5 days in Moscow airport


Ridhuan Tee says treated like a terrorist by Singapore immigration


A-G's decision to prosecute not subject to judicial review, says former top judge


Smaller iPhone expected as Apple counters drop in phone sales

Copyright Â© 1995- Star Media Group Berhad (ROC 10894D)(Formerly known as Star Publications (Malaysia) Berhad)