2014-10~12
http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/News-of-the-day-from-across-the-globe-Dec-10-5945886.php

News of the day from across the globe, Dec. 10 - SFGate

1 
Uber woes: Indian police questioned an Uber executive Tuesday about the company’s claim it conducts comprehensive background checks and a top official called for the ride-booking service to be banned nationwide after one of its New Delhi drivers was accused of rape. New Delhi police official Brijendra Kumar Yadav said there is a possibility of criminal charges against the company if police find evidence the taxi-hailing app misrepresented the safety of its service.

2 Veep fired: Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe fired the country’s vice president, Joice Mujuru, on Tuesday. Mugabe fired Mujuru and eight other Cabinet ministers, according to a government statement. Mugabe recently accused Mujuru of plotting to assassinate him and branded her a witch. Mujuru and her allies were kicked out of their senior positions in the ruling party, Zanu-PF, at a meeting last weekend. The 90-year-old president said he would, however, allow them to retain ordinary membership in the party.

3 
Nazi trial: A German court on Tuesday threw out the case against a former SS man accused of involvement in the largest civilian massacre in Nazi-occupied France, saying there was not enough evidence to bring the 89-year-old to trial. Cologne resident Werner C., whose last name has not been revealed in accordance with German privacy laws, was charged with murder and accessory to murder in connection with the 1944 slaughter of 642 civilians in Oradour-sur-Glane in southwestern France.

4 Polio worker killed: A pair of unidentified gunmen killed a polio worker in Faisalabad, an industrial city in Punjab province, on Tuesday in yet another assault on the government’s effort to curb the disease. Pakistan is struggling to contain the spread of polio as militant violence and a chaotic political environment hobble the campaign’s progress. At least 268 new cases have been reported in the country this year. Taliban militants have targeted workers across the country, accusing them of being spies for Western countries, especially the United States.

5 
Uighur activists sentenced: Seven students of prominent Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti, sentenced to life in prison for inciting separatism, have been jailed for between three and eight years, a rights lawyer said. A court in Urumqi in northwestern China convicted the ethnic minority students of the same charge of inciting separatism. The convictions came after a series of bloody attacks and clashes in Xinjiang province. Uighurs complain of repression, and there have been tensions for years between them and the Han Chinese.

6 
Ivory boom: Street prices for illegal ivory are soaring in China, where newly wealthy middle- and upper-class citizens are buying carved ivory and whole tusks as a status symbol of their riches, a report released Tuesday found. Save the Elephants said in its report that the wholesale price of raw tusks has tripled since 2010. The group says 100,000 elephants were killed in Africa between 2010 and 2012.