2014-10~12
http://voiceofvienna.org/?p=33730

15 killed in fresh violence in Chinese area near Pakistan border | Voice of Vienna
BEIJING: Fresh eruption of violence left 15 dead and 14 injured in Kashgar Prefecture of western China near the Pakistani border on Friday. The death included 11 “mobsters” who were killed in police firing, according to authorities in the disturbed Xinjiang region,where Kashgar is located.
The police acted after terrorists flung explosives and used knives to attack civilians at a food street in the Shache county of Kashgar around 1.30pm on Friday, the authorities reported on Saturday. Police later found several explosive devices, knives and axes at the scene.
The injured are receiving treatment at local hospitals, authorities said.
Chinese areas populated by Muslim Uyghurs near the Pakistani border are subjected to regular violence. Chinese experts and Xinjiang’s local officials say local terrorists get training and arms from terror camps based in a “neighboring country” without specifically naming Pakistan.
But the Chinese government in Beijing continues to protect Pakistan from blame owing to diplomatic reasons, sources said.
This is the second major case of violence in Shache after July 28 when terrorists wielding knives and axes killed 37 civilians. The police arrested several assailants, which resulted in a local court giving death penalty to 12 of them.
The court also awarded death sentence with a two-year reprieve of 15 others last October. Their cases will be reviewed two years later.
Another Xinjiang court recently convicted 22 people for conducting illegal religious activities. They included “underground imams”, or self-appointed heads of mosques, who continued to hold services after being sacked.
The curt gave jail terms of between five and 16 years to the 22 persons who were convicted on charges including inciting ethnic hatred, disrupting social order and rape, according to the Kashgar City People’s Court.__Times of India
Copyright © 2006-2014. All Rights Reserved, ePowered By Kashmir eServices.