2014-10~12
http://www.malaysiasun.com/index.php/sid/228485897

Sensitive Topics Off Agenda as China's Li Goes Overseas - Malaysia Sun
BEIJING - Chinese Premier Li Keqiang heads to Serbia, Thailand and Kazakhstan next week, but three of the most touchy topics he could encounter are off the agenda, including the fate of Muslims from western China who have fled to Southeast Asia.
Li's trip, from December 14 to 20, also takes in summits with Eastern European, Central Asian and Southeast Asian leaders.
Sensitive issues Li could encounter range from the Uighurs who have left China's violence-prone region of Xinjiang, to Thailand's military government and the U.S. military's accidental bombing of China's embassy in Belgrade in 1999.
"Premier Li's visit to Thailand... is mostly about trade and economic cooperation," Vice Foreign Minister Wang Chao told reporters on Friday, when asked if Li would talk about the Uighur situation or urge Thailand to return to civilian rule, as many Western nations have.
Li will attend a Bangkok summit of the leaders of Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam aimed at strengthening economic ties.
Chinese officials in Thailand have identified numerous Uighurs among the individuals Thai police rescued from a people-smuggling camp, and those confirmed to be from China will be sent home, a state-run Chinese newspaper said last month.
Thai police told Reuters about 200 people rescued in March were believed to be Uighurs, many of whom chafe at Chinese government curbs on their culture and Muslim religion.
Hundreds of people have been killed in unrest in Xinjiang in the past two years, prompting a crackdown by Chinese authorities.
Small numbers of Uighur people have begun trickling out of China to Southeast Asia. They are believed to go overland into Laos or Myanmar, and then onwards to Thailand and elsewhere.
Wang declined to comment further when pressed on the subject of the Uighurs, repeating his previous statement.
He added that Li had no plans for a ceremony to commemorate three Chinese killed in the Belgrade embassy bombing, during what will be the first visit by a Chinese premier to Serbia in 28 years.
"According to the current agenda, we have arranged no such activities," Wang said. "But we always cherish the memories of martyrs."
The bombing, which many Chinese still believe was intentional, sparked violent anti-NATO demonstrations across China and sparked a crisis in ties with the United States.
China and the United States agreed last month to improve ties following months of tension over everything from commercial disputes to China's territorial claims.
Kuala Lumpur, March 20 (IANS) Malaysian officials said on Sunday that two pieces of suspected debris of the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 have arrived in Australia for verification.
Both pieces of debris arrived in Australia on Sunday and the verification process would commence in Canberra on Monday by an international investigation team, Malaysian Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai said in a statement.
Assistance would be provided by experts from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), the Department of Civil Aviation Malaysia (DCA), Malaysia Airlines and Boeing to verify the origins, he said.
Both pieces of debris were discovered in Mozambique. One of the pieces was found by South African holiday makers and was brought back to their home country.
A Malaysian team retrieved the debris from South African authorities, said Liow.
The other piece which was also discovered recently in the nearby French overseas Reunion Island was said to be unlikely from the missing flight.
A wing part called flaperon washed ashore to the Reunion Island last year remained the only confirmed debris from MH370 so far.
Flight MH370 disappeared on March 8, 2014 enroute from Kuala Lumpur for Beijing with 239 people on board.
A joint search in South Indian Ocean, where the flight presumably had ended its journey, has yet to found its wreckage.

Los Angeles - Anti-Donald Trump protesters blocked a major thoroughfare on Saturday in Arizona in ...
Sydney - Two pieces of debris found in Mozambique have arrived in Australia for experts ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Hockey India (HI) on Monday picked a young squad for ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 21 (IANS) Malaysia's education ministry on Monday ordered all schools in Kedah ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 20 (IANS) Malaysian officials said on Sunday that two pieces of suspected ...
Get the latest Malaysia Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Malaysia Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved