2014-10~12
http://www.indiagazette.com/index.php/sid/226777127

UN rights chief to visit Tibet, considering Xinjiang tour - India Gazette
BEIJING: China is faced with another challenge to its global image with the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad al Hussein saying he wants to inspect the situation in Tibet. He also said he would "move around" in China and might considering visiting the restive western province of Xinjiang. Most of the groundwork for the visit was done during the term of Hussein's predecessor, Navi Pillay, a South African of Tamil origin, who was the commissioner until last month. There was no immediate comment from China but it is expected to make extensive arrangements to ensure that rebel monks do not manage to meet UN officials, and counter the official view of the situation. This is also a bad time for China, which is facing a students revolt on the issue of democratic reforms in Hong Kong. "China in its Universal Periodic Review agreed to the recommendation that there be a visit by the high commissioner to Tibet. So we are discussing this issue with the Chinese authorities," Zeid Ra'ad al Hussein, said. Asked at a press conference if he would also visit the restive Chinese province of Xinjiang, Hussein said, "It is premature to discuss exactly where I would visit. We spoke of a multi-day visit, so I suspect that I would move around if indeed we are able to get the visit in place soon." One of the issues likely to crop during the tour by UN officials is the fate of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche, a popular Tibetan monk, who has been serving a life term. Over 120 Tibetans, including many monks, have committed self immolation since 2009 to highlight the cause of the rebels, protest Beijing's rule and request for a return of spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama. Rebel monks have earlier sprung some nasty surprises by successfully connecting with visiting foreign diplomats and selected journalists, who have been taken to Tibet. China points to the massive infrastructure development in Tibet, and claims to have raised the standards of living of Tibetans after decades of poverty. But its critics say that religious freedom and culture in Tibet has been systematically suppressed since the People's Liberation Army "peacefully liberated" the region forcing the Dalai Lama to leave for India in 1959....
Mumbai, Mar.20 (ANI): The Custom officials on Sunday seized 146 tortoises from a mishandled baggage of a Nepal citizen at the Mumbai airport.
The incident happened when the Jet Airways staff brought one left behind baggage to officers of Air Intelligence Unit (AIU), saying that some suspicious images (shell like) had been noticed by GVK Security.
This bag was said to belong to a transit passenger, who arrived from Madagascar and flew to Kathmandu leaving this bag behind. Officers of Air Intelligence Unit examined the bag and recovered and seized 146 tortoises.
Out of the 146 tortoises, 139 were Radiated tortoises (Astrochelys radiata) and seven were Angonoka tortoises (Astrochelys yniphora), both critically endangered tortoise species of Madagascar.
Since these were exotic species and cannot be introduced into India and because of quarantine reasons, as informed by wild life authorities, the airlines have been instructed to re-export the same to Madagascar under intimation to wildlife authorities there. (ANI)

Geneva 21 March 2016 (WMO) - The year 2015 made history, with shattered temperature records, ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): A delegation of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) met ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): The Government of India which accords utmost importance to the ...
New Delhi, March 21 (ANI): Kathak Kendra, New Delhi, returned with "Maharaj Kalka Bindadeen Kathak ...
Get the latest India Gazette headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 India Gazette - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved