2014-10~12
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/228370629

Seven students of China's Ilham Tohti get jail sentences - China National News
Seven students of Uyghur scholar Ilham Tohti, who is serving a life sentence in China for separatism, have been sentenced to between three and eight years in prison for the same offence, Tohti's attorney Li Fangping told Efe news agency Tuesday.
The seven men, all students of Tohti's at Beijing's Minzu University, were accused of belonging to a criminal group led by their professor that incites separatism and seeks the independence of Xinjiang province from the rest of China.
According to Tohti's other attorney, Liu Xiaoyuan, one of the students was sentenced to eight years in jail, and two of them to seven years, while the rest will serve between three and six years of prison time.
Both the trial and the sentencing were carried out in an opaque manner.
No Chinese human rights lawyer was able to access information on the trial, given the pressure from the authorities and the reluctance of the students' families to speak out for fear of reprisals.
In Xinjiang, where the majority of the inhabitants are Uyghur, confrontations have been on the rise in recent years.
In 2014, 200 people died in the region due to violence which Beijing attributes to separatist terrorist groups, while Uyghurs living in exile blame it on the repression and discrimination by Chinese authorities.
After a series of attacks this year, the authorities launched a campaign to reduce violence in Xinjiang, sentencing numerous groups of alleged terrorists, mostly ethnic Uyghurs, to death or life imprisonment.
Those sentenced include the intellectual Ilham Tohti, who was acting as a bridge between both ethnic groups to promote understanding.
His arrest, as well as Tuesday's seven arrests, drew the attention and strong criticism from the international community.
"With these statements, the authorities want to show that they are determined to suppress the rights of Uyghur activists and to strengthen repression and their control over them," a Chinese human rights investigator told Efe, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Both of Tohti's lawyers criticised the fact that the trial against the students and the professor were carried out separately, which, according to them, is a violation of the law and prejudicial for the accused.
Statements by the students affirming that Tohti preached separatism were apparently used against the professor during his trial, an argument the lawyer said was invalid for the appeal, which the court rejected.
Tohti argued that the students' statements were produced "under pressure and threats" from the authorities.
New Delhi, March 20 (IANS) Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday opened an exhibition here on how Parsi traders used gains from trade with China to lay the foundation of Mumbai as India's financial capital.
The exhibition, "Painted Encounters: Parsi Traders and the Community", traces through paintings, engravings and photographs the growth of Parsi traders who built ships for trade with Canton in the 19th century.
Parsi merchants hailing from hamlets in Gujarat and rich from the China trade commissioned Indian and European artists to paint portraits and were known patrons of these art forms.
Leading Parsi traders boosted capital accumulation and helped shape 19th century Bombay (now Mumbai) to emerge as an international financial metropolis.
The exhibition has been curated by Pheroza J. Godrej and Firoza Punthakey Mistree.
Another exhibition, "No Parsi is an Island", is a curatorial re-reading of the work of 14 Parsi artists across 150 years. It has been curated by Ranjit Hoskote and Nancy Adajania with Pheroza J. Godrej.
"The Parsi community is an integral and important part of our national history and identity," said Rajeev Lochan, director of the National Gallery of Modern Art where the exhibitions will end on May 29.
"Unfortunately, time and again, they have been regarded as 'others' by many. This exhibition is crucial in highlighting that they are as much a part of our collective past, present and future," he said.

BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
Kathmandu, Mar. 21 (ANI): Nepal has signed a host of agreement, including free trade agreement ...
Beijing, Mar. 21 (ANI): Indonesian Minister for Fisheries and Maritime Affairs, Susi Pudjiastuti, has said ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved