2014-10~12
http://rt.com/uk/214015-ban-niqab-court-britain/

Veiled threat? Tougher regulations against wearing niqabs in court – UK judge — RT UK

 The deputy president of the Supreme Court, Baroness Hale of
 Richmond, said Britain’s judiciary and government must find a way
 to ensure that Islamic garments like the niqab do not obscure the
 faces of women giving evidence in key parts of British hearings.


 She told the Evening Standard newspaper it is imperative judges
 can visually log witness’ facial expressions to gauge whether
 they are telling the truth. She added it is also important for
 judges and jurors to accurately identify people who take the
 stand.


 Judge Hale suggested the necessity for a more stringent approach
 was highlighted in a recent family law case, where she came
 across a woman who was found to be deceiving the court when she
 was asked to remove her niqab.

“We should devise ways of making it possible and insisting
 people show their full face when it is necessary,” Judge
 Hale said.

“We don’t object to allowing people to do things for
 sincerely held religious reasons if they don’t do any harm. If it
 does harm, we have to be a bit tougher.”

 Although Britain has yet to follow France and Belgium into
 veil-banning territory, the UK debate about the full-face veil in
 courtrooms remains heated.


 On Thursday, the capital of China’s western Xinjiang region –
 home to its Uighur Muslim minority – officially banned the
 wearing of veiled Islamic robes in public amid pressure from
 Beijing to crack down on religious extremism.


 Experts warn the decision to outlaw the face veil will further
 stigmatize the minority Uighurs.


 Muslim, feminist, liberal and devoted anti-racism campaigner,
 Myriam Francois-Cerrah, has argued against the stereotyping of
 Muslims as radicalized, anti-UK, or terrorists in Britain.


 In her most recent book, Refusing the Veil, she said the garment
 is symbolic of the inferiority of women.

“The veil,” she stresses, “in all its permutations,
 is indefensible and unacceptable.”

 Amnesty International has condemned the banning of face veils as
 “an attack on religious freedom.” The human rights
 organization says constraints on women wearing such veils are a
 violation of their fundamental rights. It also argues, however,
 that the forcing of women to wear such garments is a serious
 rights violation.


 Last year, PM David Cameron backed UK judges calling for people
 to remove full-faced veils in UK courts. But he said he did not
 endorse an outright ban on the wearing of such garments in public
 places. While Cameron suggested at the time he would consider
 introducing fresh guidelines to judges on when they can ask
 people to remove their veils, no concrete policy shift has
 emerged.
