2015-10~12
http://www.ecns.cn/2015/12-29/193966.shtml

CPC members told to avoid 'groundless comments' on social media
The Communist Party of China (CPC) disciplinary watchdog said it will consider as "groundless comments" statements made by Party members who criticize the Party behind scenes.
The CPC's Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI) explained the definition and standard of making "groundless comments" on its website on Sunday.
The Party's Central Committee provides various channels to collect suggestions and opinions from Party members in making major policies, but some people "remain silent in front of the Central Committee and at meetings, but make irresponsible remarks afterwards," which damages Party unity and hinders the implementation of Party policies, the CCDI said.
Making groundless comments and damaging Party unity are included in the new Party rules, based on the Party Constitution, according to the CCDI.
The new Party rules on sanctions for those who violate the Party code of conduct, issued on October 18, states that Party members will be punished if they irresponsibly make groundless comments about national policies that are damaging to Party unity, or defame the nation, the Party as well as State leaders.
Party members are also banned from making groundless comments about the nation's policies on social media, such as WeChat.
Because WeChat is a semi-public space where sharing posts is commonly used, Party members will be punished for making irresponsible statements on the platform, according to an article published on the CCDI-affiliated newspaper on Saturday.
Zhu Lijia, a public management professor at the Chinese Academy of Governance, told the Global Times that Party members who criticize major government policies on WeChat are making groundless comments and out of line.
"Party members can present their views at Party's meetings, but criticizing policies outside meetings could result in severe social consequences," Zhu said.
Zhuang Deshui, a deputy director of the Research Center for Government Integrity Building at Peking University, said that Party members have to verify articles before re-posting them on WeChat.
Zhao Xinwei, Xinjiang Daily editor-in-chief, was expelled from the Party in November after he allegedly made "groundless comments" on major government decisions.