2015-10~12
http://www.memri.org/report/en/0/0/0/0/0/0/8885.htm

Jihad and Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM) Weekend Summary
The following are some of this week's reports from the
MEMRI Jihad and Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM) Project, which translates and
analyzes content from sources monitored around the clock, among them the most
important jihadi websites and blogs. (To view these reports in full, you must be
a paying member of the JTTM; for membership information, send an email to [email protected] with "Membership" in the subject line.)
Note
to media and government: For a full copy of these reports, send an email with
the title of the report in the subject line to [email protected]. Please include your name, title, and organization in your
email. 
EXCLUSIVE:
Viewer Discretion Advised: Children Execute Captives in New ISIS Video
The following video is a
complimentary offering from MEMRI's Jihad and Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM).
For JTTM subscription information, click
here.
EXCLUSIVE:
Dutch ISIS Fighter, Popular On Social Media, Holds Q&A On Reddit
Israfil Yilmaz, a Dutch Islamic State (ISIS) fighter of
Turkish origin who has previously been active on Twitter, Instagram, and
Tumblr, has moved to Reddit after numerous suspensions and bans chased him
off other sites. One Reddit feature is AMA ("Ask Me Anything"), in
which a celebrity or other notable individual answers questions from readers;
on November 22, 2015, Yilmaz held his own AMA session. This is the first time
an ISIS fighter has used this feature as a platform.
EXCLUSIVE:
ISIS-Affiliated Twitter Account Shares Tips For Muslims Traveling Through
Western Airports
On November 30, 2015,
a jihadi Twitter account tweeted tips for Muslims to help them navigate
security at Western airports without arousing suspicion. The account,
which was created on November 30, had 1,303 followers within nine hours of its
launch. It appears to belong to a user who had published English translations
of Arabic-language Islamic State (ISIS). Her Twitter account also links to a
Telegram channel.
The Islamic State (ISIS) invests considerable efforts in
demonstrating that it provides proper services to the people living under its
rule. Media material is released on a daily basis to show that ISIS repairs and
maintains infrastructures, build roads, maintains public order and even
cultivates public parks. Since healthcare is among the primary needs that a
state must meet, the organization makes efforts to prevent a brain drain of
medical professionals and to keep clinics and hospitals functioning. ISIS knows
that unless it provides adequate healthcare, it will find it difficult to gain the
support and obedience of the people. Moreover, ISIS requires qualified medical
practitioners not only to care for the civilian population but also to treat
its fighters.
Recent reports indicate that the organization is having
problems in this domain.  Reports have it that many local doctors have
left the areas under ISIS control, or are trying to leave, due to the
escalating attacks by the organization's enemies and also due to the religious
restrictions that ISIS imposes on them. According to the activist group called
"Al-Raqqa Is Being Slaughtered Silently," which reports on the
situation in this ISIS stronghold in Syria, the cost of healthcare in the city
has risen sharply because most medical practices and centers have closed,
leaving only one hospital that provides free medical care.
To show that it has matters in hand, it publishes weekly
photo reports on medical services in its territories, showcasing clinics and
hospitals, vaccination drives, and professional courses being delivered to
medical personnel. Many of the photos are of children receiving vaccinations or
medical treatment; this is presumably meant to solicit sympathy among ISIS
supporters and to present the organization as caring and humane. In addition,
ISIS' media companies and the organization supporters periodically circulate
photos, videos and blog entries that call upon healthcare professionals to
perform hijra (migrate) to the Islamic State and participate
in the war effort and in building the newly-founded caliphate. The organization
and its supporters also threaten medical personnel who wish to leave the ISIS
territories, as well as those who have already left, promising that they will
be killed and that their clinics and property will be seized.
EXCLUSIVE:
Pro-ISIS Islamist Group 'London Islamic Hotspot' Active On Facebook And Twitter
A
group called London Islamic Hotspot openly promotes the virtues of jihad and
supports ISIS, and shares graphics and memes with quotations from radical
clerics such as Anwar Al-Awlaki and Musa Ahmed Jibril on its social media
accounts. On Facebook, London Islamic Hotspot is listed as a public group and
currently has over 1,000 followers. On Twitter, the group has far fewer
followers, however, the content distributed on Twitter is more overtly radical.
On Facebook, pictures linked to radical preachers or
organizations are posted, and users are free to contribute what they would like
to the group.
EXCLUSIVE:
Bosnian Pro-ISIS Media Group Steps Up Call For Terror Attacks In Bosnia And
Elsewhere In Europe
In recent days, the pro-Islamic State (ISIS) media group Vijesti Ummeta
("News of the Ummah"), has stepped up its efforts to encourage
Bosnian Muslims to carry out terrorist attacks in Bosnia and elsewhere in
Europe.
On November 19, 2015, following a Bosnian's killing of two Bosnian
soldiers in Sarajevo, Vijesti Ummeta said in a statement celebrating the act
that this was "just the beginning for Bosnia and... for Europe," and
urged Bosnians who sympathize with ISIS to go forth and carry out attacks
throughout Europe.
Jihadis have been celebrating yesterday's deadly attack in
California, in which a married couple opened fire, killing at least 14 people
at the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino. The suspects, Syed Rizwan
Farook, 28, and Tashfeen Malik, 27, died in a shootout with the police hours
later. While no terrorist group has claimed responsibility for the attack,
emerging media reports have noted the FBI has started treating the case as a
terrorism investigation, due to the supposed preparation that went into the
attack, and recent reports that at least one of the suspects had viewed Islamic
State (ISIS) propaganda online.
Following are examples jihadis reactions to the attack on
social media:
Using the Arabic Hashtag "California Attack," Irhabiyyah Holandiyyah ("Dutch
Terrorist") tweeted: "America's dog negro Obama, you should pay the
jizya [poll tax] to the #Islamic_State in humiliation or your fate will be
[like the Iraqi soldiers killed last year in Camp] Speicher."
Using the same Hashtag, user Al-Mutafa'il celebrated:
"O Allah, heal our chests."
ISIS
Libya Video Features Foreign Fighters Praising Paris Attackers, Vowing To
Target U.S. Cities, Moscow
On December 2, 2015, the media office of the Islamic State
(ISIS) in the Barqah province in Libya, released a new video in which two
members of the group praised the perpetrators of the November 13 attacks in
Paris and vowed that U.S. cities New York and Washington as well the Russian
capital of Moscow will be next.
New
ISIS Video In Russian Urges Muslims To Carry Out Lone Wolf Attacks Against
Infidels
On November 23, 2015, the Al-Furat media center, which is
affiliated with the Islamic State (ISIS), released a nearly 22-minute video
featuring a Russian-speaking narrator calling on Muslims everywhere to carry
out lone-wolf attacks, with knives, cars, or guns, against infidel civilians
and soldiers.
ISIS
Al-Raqqa Shows Beheading Of Russian 'Spy,' Vows To Avenge Russia's Killing Of
Muslims In Syria 
On December 2, 2015, the Islamic State (ISIS) Al-Raqqa
province released a video showing the confession and beheading of a Russian spy
who was sent to the Islamic State in 2014. A Russian-speaking ISIS fighter, who
beheads the man, decries Russia's bombing of innocent Muslims in the Islamic
State and says that the beheading signals the beginning of the battle against
it. The man threatens that Russians shall not be safe even in their own homes,
and that ISIS will avenge every Muslim that Russia killed in Syria. "We shall
kill your sons for every son you've killed here," he says.
On December 28, 2015, the ISIS-affiliated Furat Media
Center released a video titled "A Message to the People in Georgia."
The video, which is some 12 minutes long and was disseminated via Furat's
Twitter page, shows four Georgian ISIS fighters, two of whom deliver messages
in Georgian. The following are the main points of their message, translated
from the video's Arabic subtitles.
The Islamic State (ISIS) has claimed responsibility for the
November 24, 2015 suicide attack targeting a bus carrying presidential security
personnel in the Tunisian capital of Tunis. The attack killed over dozen people
and wounded many others, according to various media reports.
Online
Jihadis Disseminate Practical Guide For Lone Wolves: 'How To Carry Out
Effective Attacks Against The Enemy'
On November 30, 2015, a user on the pro-ISIS jihadi
forum Shumoukh Al-Islam posted an article titled "To Lone Wolves –
Increase Your Strikes Against Them" by one Anjad
Al-Baghdadi, encouraging Muslims everywhere to attack the enemies of
Islam. The author states that he felt a duty to share some of his own
experience, amassed during many years of engaging in jihad, with regards to the
certain and effective execution of attacks. He wrote: "What is the point of
firing dozens, or even hundreds of bullets and killing just one man and
wounding one more?! And this is a best case scenario. Therefore, I wanted to
share with our supporting brothers and 'Lone Wolves' all the knowledge that
Allah has bestowed on us and the lessons we learned from our experience in
jihad, as well as the sacrifices we have made on the path of Allah."
On November 30, 2015, the Islamic State's (ISIS) Al-Hayat
Media Center released the seventh issue of its French-language magazine Dar
Al-Islam. The issue, titled "France On Its Knees," was
distributed on Twitter, and was hosted on the Internet Archive (archive.org).
Al-Shabab Al-Mujahideen Praises Paris, Bamako Attacks;
Urges Further Attacks On Western Interests
On November 26, 2015, the general command of Al-Qaeda's affiliate in Somalia,
Al-Shabab Al-Mujahideen, issued a statement expressing support for the recent attacks
in Paris and Bamako and calling for further attacks against Western
targets – especially against financial and political institutions, as well as
military bases.  The statement, titled "Victory Comes through
Patience: A Statement from the General Command on the Crusader Campaign against
our People in Iraq and Syria," includes a tirade against France, "the
enemy of Islam," and vows that the war with France will continue until
Islam rules the world or until France stops its war on Muslims. It is
noteworthy that, although Al-Shabab does not explicitly mention the Islamic
State (ISIS), which carried out the Paris attacks, it is unequivocal in its
support of these attacks. This, despite its conflict with ISIS due to the
latter's ongoing (and partly successful) attempts to lure fighters away from
Al-Shabab.
Al-Qaeda Leader Ayman Al-Zawahiri Praises Charlie
Hebdo Attackers, Urges Muslims To Pursue And Target Those Who Mock The Prophet
Muhammad
On Dec 2, 2015, Al-Qaeda's media arm Al-Sahab released an
audio recording in which the group's leader, Ayman Al-Zawahiri, praised the
attackers who targeted the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in
January 2015 and called on Muslims to pursue and target anyone who mocks the
Prophet Muhammad. In his recorded statement, which is titled "Support your
Prophet," Al-Zawahiri also urged the mujahideen to take the war inside the
lands of the enemies.
JN Video Documents Capture Of Syrian Regime Airbase,
Execution Of Dozens Of Syrian Troops
On November 26, 2015, the official media body of Jabhat
Al-Nusra (JN), Al-Manara Al-Baida, released a 23-minute video titled "The
Raid of the Trenches," documenting the takeover of the Syrian regime
airbase in Abu Al-Dhuhur, near Idlib. The video, which was posted on JN's
official Twitter account (@morasel_jn1), also shows the execution of dozens of
Syrian soldiers and officers who had been captured. (It should be mentioned
that, unlike ISIS videos, the JN video does not show the moment of the
execution itself). Also shown are testimonies by Syrian hostages who describe
the battle and express anger at their commanders, who promised to rescue them
but did not.
AQAP Threatens To Target Saudi Arabia As It Plans To
Execute 52 Accused Terrorists
On Dec 1, 2015, Al-Malahem, the media arm of Al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), released a statement in which the group vowed to
target Saudi soldiers and members of the ruling family in light of news reports
announcing that the Kingdom is planning to execute 52 people accused of
terrorism. In the statement, which was published on AQAP's official twitter
account, the group vowed to "spill the blood" of Saudi soldiers
"before the immaculate blood of the prisoners dries out." After
vowing to kill members of the Saudi ruling family, the group promised that it
will not disappoint the prisoners.
AQIM Warns Azawad Tribesmen: Anyone Collaborating With
The French Will Be Punished
On December 1, 2015, Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM)
released a six-minute video documenting a meeting between AQIM commanders in
the Sahara region and tribal leaders in the Azawad region in northern Mali. The
video, which was apparently filmed with a smartphone and is of poor quality,
was posted December 1, 2015 by Alakhbar.info, an independent Mauritanian news
agency, and bears the news agency's logo. The message that accompanies it
states that it shows "the senior commander of  AQIM's Sahara Emirate
and head of the Al-Furqan brigade, known as Talaha Al-Libi, speaking at a
festive ceremony recently held by one of the Arab tribes in Azawad." In
his speech Al-Libi threatens that anyone who fights in Mali alongside the
French forces will be punished by the mujahideen.
On
November 30, 2015, the Turkestan Islamic Party (TIP) released a video featuring
a message from Syria-based Saudi cleric Sheikh 'Abdallah Al-Muhaisini, who
urges Uyghur Muslims in East Turkestan (Xinjiang) to remain steadfast in face
of China's oppression, and to wage jihad against it.
The video, which is 10:34 in duration, is dated November
2015. It was released on TIP's blog, and also uploaded to the Internet Archive
(archive.org).
TIP Video Features Message By Syrian Uyghur Instructor
Abu Al-Rida Al-Turkestani
On
November 22, 2015, the Turkestan Islamic Party (TIP) released a video featuring
a message from Abu Al-Rida Al-Turkestani extolling jihad for the sake of Allah.
Al-Turkestani, who is in fact Syrian but uses the
Al-Turkestani name to denote his affiliation rather than his ethnicity, is an
instructor for Uyghur fighters in Syria; he is responsible for their religious
indoctrination. Al-Turkestani has previously appeared in other TIP releases.
Commander Reveals Details On Uyghur Fighters' Journey
From China To Syria
A post on the jihadi forum Shumoukh Al-Islam, which is
identified with the Islamic State, presents an interview with an Uyghur
commander in Syria. The same text has also been posted on several Facebook
accounts since November 22, 2015, and its original author is unknown. The commander
discusses the toughness, courage and devotion of the Uyghur fighters. His
statements reveal details about the route these fighters take and the methods
they use in getting from China to Syria. 