2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/10/10/justin-biebers-penis-pics-leaked-invasion-of-privacy-or-pr-stunt/

Justin Bieber’s Penis Pics Leaked, Invasion of Privacy or PR Stunt? | Funs.co
Images of Justin Bieber’s penis have leaked online by paparazzi. The pictures where taken during a recent vacation in Bora Bora, Bieber hid in the bushes and got the pic. Do you think this was a publicity stunt or a violation of privacy? Is it unethical to leak the pictures?
Cenk Uygur, Ana Kasparian (The Point), Ben Mankiewicz (Turner Classic Movies), and Jimmy Dore, (The Jimmy Dore Show Podcast), hosts of the The Young Turks, break it down. Do you think Justin Bieber exposed himself purpose? Let us know in the comments.
After nude photographs of Justin Bieber on vacation in Bora Bora were published earlier this week, his lawyers “sent multiple cease and desist letters to news outlets that published the pics” asking for their removal.
But even though he definitely wants the photos to be taken down, Bieber is by no means embarrassed that they were published for the world to see.
Sources say Justin’s anger faded when the pics went viral … for one seemingly larger than average reason: Bieber’s a really big deal, and we’re told he’s happy the world knows it now.
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.