2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/11/17/trump-we-should-strongly-consider-closing-mosques/

Trump: We Should Strongly Consider Closing Mosques | Funs.co
Who’s going to step in after Paris to demagogue? Donald Trump of course. He would hate to do it, but he would “have to consider” closing mosques in the U.S. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump would consider shuttering some mosques in the United States after last week’s deadly terror attacks in France.
“I would hate to do it, but it’s something you’re going to have to strongly consider, because some of the ideas and some of the hatred is coming from these areas,” Trump said Monday on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” arguing that such an action would be a reasonable if mosques were indeed radicalizing their members…
“It’s something that many people — not me — are considering, and many people are going to do,” Trump added.”*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.