2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/10/16/trump-calls-bernie-sanders-a-commie-maniac/

Trump Calls Bernie Sanders A Commie Maniac | Funs.co
After the Democratic debate, Donald Trump attacked Bernie Sanders by calling him a Communist. He then acted as if he’s the first person brave enough to say what we’re all thinking. Surely nobody on Fox News or AM radio has ever mused about Bernie Sanders being a communist. No you see it takes a strong capitalist maniac to properly identify communist maniacs. Cenk Uygur and Ana Kasparian (The Point), hosts of the The Young Turks, break it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“Donald Trump turned his sights on Bernie Sanders during a Wednesday speech, telling a Virginia crowd that the Democratic presidential candidate was a “maniac” and a “communist.”
“I watched Hillary last night, ‘we’re gonna give this, we’re gonna give that, we’re going to give that,’” he said. “The poor woman, she’s gotta give everything away because this maniac that was standing on her right was giving everything away, so she’s following! That’s what’s happening.”
“This socialist-slash-communist, okay? Nobody wants to say it,” Trump said to wild applause.
“He’s gonna tax you people at 90 percent; he’s gonna take everything!” he continued. “And nobody’s heard the term ‘communist.’ I call him a socialist-slash-communist because that’s what he is.””*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.