2015-10~12
http://asia.nikkei.com/Politics-Economy/International-Relations/While-Beijing-criticizes-Japan-Chinese-calmly-accept-it

Gap between government, citizens: While Beijing criticizes Japan, Chinese calmly accept it - Nikkei Asian Review

 
 Chinese bloggers known for introducing Japanese life and culture gain popularity in China.
 
 

TOKYO -- In early September, China celebrated the 70th anniversary of its victory in what it calls its "War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression" and its "World Anti-Fascist War." During a lavish military parade in Beijing to mark the occasion, tanks and trucks loaded with missiles rumbled through Tiananmen Square, and fighter jets flew in formation over the city.
     The event was intended to show how far the country's military power had advanced, but the impression it ended up giving was one of an outdated arsenal.
     This tendency to put on big displays of weaponry is often seen among governments struggling with domestic instability -- as was once observed in the Soviet Union and is currently in North Korea. On the surface, military parades appear targeted at a foreign audience. But clearly their real purpose is to demonstrate the power of the government and the dignity of its leader to its citizens.
     Beijing locals, however, criticized the event as a waste of money, saying that the economy should come before aggrandizing the military. In contrast, they were all praise during the country's 50th National Day parade in 1999.
     Since its beginning, the administration of Chinese President Xi Jinping has struggled to deal with domestic problems. These include anti-corruption efforts against government officials, advocacy of the Chinese version of the "new normal" promoting stable growth and structural reforms of its economy, and the anti-terrorism campaign against Uighur separatist movements. The country also suffered a stock market plunge in June.
     Even during his official tour to the U.S. and the bilateral meeting with President Barack Obama in late September, Xi's attention was probably directed mainly to his country's struggling economy. His unilateral claims of a "great power relationship" between China and the U.S. were less than convincing.
Meanwhile, Chinese people are shifting their attention overseas. Despite its efforts, Beijing has failed to block the influx of international news and information that rapidly spreads in China. More and more Chinese have actually experienced real life overseas through business, travel or study abroad.
     The gap between the attempt of Xi and his party to focus on domestic affairs, and the willingness of his people to absorb foreign information, seems to be well represented in the Japan-China relation today.
     For several weeks around the time of the ceremony and the military parade on Sept. 3, Chinese TV was full of anti-Japan wartime dramas. Even cartoons for small children included anti-Japan content. But such efforts by the government have failed to discourage Chinese tourists rushing to Japan for sightseeing and shopping.
     Chinese people can get numerous amount of information about Japan through the Internet and magazines. It is often pointed out that Chinese tourists tend to go to specific shops and locations in Japan that are featured on the Internet and other media. They value being able to visit the sites by themselves and buy things recommended by the media.
     Back home, too, Chinese consumers are able to buy certain Japanese products through authorized online shopping sites, which have been increasingly popular in the past year or two.
Magazine editors and young bloggers are the main source of such "hot" information on Japan for Chinese citizens. They are generally free from political constraints. The government's anti-Japan rhetoric does not affect their enthusiastic delivery of Japanese information. 
     A Chinese magazine titled Zhiri, meaning "to know Japan," is particularly interesting. The monthly magazine features specific themes, from Japanese houses to manners and food. The coverage is deep and broad-ranging, incorporating many photos. The magazine as a whole has achieved a high standard of quality.
     More significant, these Japan-focused media maintain a neutral viewpoint on Japan without excessively praising Japanese culture and lifestyles. They do not hesitate to write about problems and strange customs in Japan, or weaknesses in Japanese products.
     Amid this trend in China, Xi's attempts appear to be not only outdated, but also a risky factor that could damage the relationship between its citizens and the government. China's leaders are certainly not the only ones to underestimate their people's exposure to domestic and overseas information and their interest in what is going on inside and outside of the country.
     If a leader of a country tries to overstate a foreign country's threat to its citizens, the leader will eventually suffer. This applies not only to China, but to Japan as well.
You have limited access. To enjoy full access, subscribe now.
Your subscription renewal has not been processed.Please update your payment information and enjoy full access.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week

Your subscription renewal could not be processed. Please update your payment information to continue enjoying the Nikkei Asian Review.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week


 Nikkei Asian Review is the only publication that brings you Insight about Asia, from the inside out.
 XXcontractNameXX has enabled you free full access to Nikkei Asian Review.
