2015-10~12
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/policies-politics/article/1875633/china-pushes-putonghua-and-cultural-blending-boost

China pushes for Putonghua and cultural ‘blending’ to boost stability in Xinjiang | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Zhang Chunxian, Xinjiang’s party boss, says region is like a chessboard and its southern area a 'crucial chess piece' in Beijing's fight against terrorism and threats to peace
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
China will push the study of Putonghu and the “blending” of different races as part of a new stability push in the troubled far western region of Xinjiang, the region’s top Communist Party official said in remarks published on Wednesday.
Hundreds of people have been killed in violence in Xinjiang in the past few years.
The Chinese government blames the unrest on Islamist militants who want to establish an independent state called East Turkestan for minority Uygurs, a mostly Muslim people who speak a Turkic language and hail from Xinjiang.
Zhang Chunxian, Xinjiang’s party boss, said during a meeting in the old Silk Road city of Kashgar, deep in the Uygur heartland in southern Xinjiang, that Xinjiang was a chessboard and its southern area was a crucial piece.
“South Xinjiang is the central battleground for fighting terrorism and threats to stability,” Zhang said, in comments carried by the official Xinjiang Daily.
In southern Xinjiang, China aims to achieve significant progress by 2020 in the struggle against separatists, maintaining stability and fighting terror, Zhang said.
He said the government had made notable progress in protecting social stability and “religious harmony”.
Many Uygurs object to pressure to adopt Chinese customs and language, which has often been coupled with curbs on their own religious and cultural practices. China has denies having any repressive policies.
Efforts would be strengthened on “exchanges and blending” between ethnic groups and education in “the language commonly used in our country”, Zhang said, in a reference to Putonghua.
China has long pushed Putonghua as a unifying tongue in a country with hundreds of different dialects and languages, but has faced considerable resistance in Xinjiang where it is viewed as another effort to dilute Uygur culture.
Few Han Chinese in Xinjiang learn the Uygur language or study about Islam.
Zhang said authorities would also push education on ethnic unity with young people, a term that generally means promoting harmony among China’s different races.
Uygurs have traditionally followed a moderate form of Islam, but many have begun adopting practices more common in Saudi Arabia or Pakistan, such as full-face veils for women, as China has stepped up a security crackdown in recent years.
Exiles and many rights groups have said the real cause of the unrest is heavy-handed Chinese policies, including curbs on Uygur culture, and a dearth of economic opportunity in the region.