2015-10~12
http://www.newsfultoncounty.com/politics/news/0119612-us-envoy-assures-thailand-not-lost-to-china

US Envoy Assures Thailand Not ‘lost’ To China | Fulton News
-American Ambassador Glyn Davies says US welcomes good relations between China and Thailand, US’s oldest treaty ally in region
-American Ambassador Glyn Davies says US welcomes good relations between China and Thailand, US’s oldest treaty ally in region

BANGKOK – One week after protesters took to the streets outside the U.S. embassy in Bangkok, the U.S. ambassador has underlined that the country has not “lost” its oldest treaty ally in the region.
For years, the Kingdom was one of America’s staunchest military allies, but ties between the two have diminished following the 2014 coup.
Meanwhile, the junta has made overtures to China, America’s rival for hegemony in the region, including joint military exercises, the sale of military equipment, the signing of a high speed railroad deal, and the much criticized deportation of ethnic Uighur to the region while Turkey offered sanctuary.
The Bangkok Post reported Tuesday that Ambassador Glyn Davies had told reporters that the U.S. welcomed good relations between Thailand and China.
“It is a good thing for Thailand to have a good relationship with China,” he said, before adding that the U.S. had not “lost” Thailand.
The ambassador was responding to questions that Thailand, America’s oldest treaty ally in the region, had shifted its allegiances to China due to growing criticism of its military government by Washington.
“I don’t spend any time saying to Washington here’s how we get Thailand back,” Davies said.
Last week, Davies hit out at the “the lengthy and unprecedented prison sentences handed down by Thai military courts against civilians” for breaching Section 112 of the Criminal Code, and for breaking the country’s harsh lese-majeste law.
The comments brought a rebuke from Deputy Prime Minister Prawit Wongsuwon, who advised Davies to “think carefully before he speaks,” while junta leader-cum-Prime Minister Prayut Chanocha hinted that trade ties between the two nations could be affected if Davies repeated such remarks.
On Monday, the ambassador tried to downplay the threat, saying “If political leaders want to equate the two that’s up to them, up to him”.
Meanwhile, demonstrators — rallying outside the embassy and at spots around Thailand — demanded the government take diplomatic reprisal and the U.S. replace its ambassador.
Bangkok and Washington have maintained strong relations throughout the decades, with Thailand having been among America’s staunchest anti-communist allies in the region during the Vietnam War and its aftermath, when Thailand benefited hugely from U.S. aid.
Since coming to power in May of last year, Thailand’s military junta has faced criticism over its harsh crackdown on dissidents and a lapsed timeframe for a return to democracy.
Thailand’s overtures to China, including the deportation of two activists and dozens of Uighur refugees, has led analysts to remark on a shift in Thailand’s foreign policy away from Washington.
US envoy assures Thailand not ‘lost’ to China added by Selim ALTIN on December 1, 2015View all posts by Selim ALTIN →