2015-10~12
http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/islamabad/16-Dec-2015/cpec-will-change-the-fate-of-pakistan-hec-chairman

CPEC will change the fate of Pakistan: HEC chairman
ISLAMABAD: A two-day international conference on “China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) Strategic Impact on Regional Development” organised by National University of Modern Languages (NUML) started at NUML on Tuesday.
CPEC parliamentary committee Chairman Mushahid Hussain Syed was the Chief Guest in the inaugural session whereas NUML Rector Major General (r) Ziaud Din Najam and Higher Education Commission (HEC) Chairman Dr Mukhtar Ahmed participated as keynote speakers.
Addressing the occasion, Mushahid Hussain Syed said that Pakistan has become a centre of gravity for the world and shift of power can be seen from west to east. Pakistan is situated in the hub of area geographically as well as geopolitically which will be a key player in the future of world politics and world economy, he added.
He said CPEC is not just an origin but a concept and it must be taken in a broader sense. “CPEC would become a symbol of unity among the people of Pakistan and China”, Mushahid said.
HEC Chairman Dr Mukhtar Ahmed said CPEC will change the fate of Pakistan and HEC is planning to establish an excellence centre for Central Asian Universities to share knowledge and will initiate collective projects to make the region a land of opportunities.
CPEC project will cover all the aspects like food security, economic growth, climate change and energy, he added.
He was of the view that this is the right time to make and establish cluster of educational institutions across the globe to make our motherland and the region more peaceful and prosper.
Earlier, NUML Rector Major General (r) Ziaud Din Najam in his welcome address said that the language is the only way to promote mutual interest and to endorse friendship to maximum level.
He said that NUML has started Chinese language as an optional subject for different faculties keeping in view the future demand and make our students more proactive towards CPEC project.
He remarked that NUML was the first university to sign MoU with Xinjiang Normal University China to open NUML International Centre of Education (NICE) in China to teach Chinese foreign languages of the world. It is a source of pride for the university.
He said NICE project is included in 51 MoUs that were signed under CPEC project, rector added.
He hoped that this international conference will serve the purpose of both countries and bring more clarity for the future of Pakistan which are our youth.
He thanked the chief guest and guests especially from China and participants for attending the seminar.
Former ambassador and Institute of Strategic Studies Director General (DG) Masood Khan said that CPEC refers to peace, harmony and development. It will not come into reality in the period of one year but it is a continuous thought of both states, he added.
Associate Professor XJNU Chen Jun elaborated the complete details of the rail and road route of CPEC project and informed the participants that how both the country will get benefit from the project. 

 ISLAMABAD: Opposition parties in parliament on Monday took the government to task for allowing ...

 ISLAMABAD: The nation is going to celebrate the 76th anniversary of Pakistan Day tomorrow ...

 ISLAMABAD: It was a day filled with jubilations, honour and excitement for the students of Flagship ...