2015-10~12
http://www.valuewalk.com/2015/11/paris-attacks-china-security-efforts/

Paris Attacks: China Justifies Domestic Security Efforts
The Paris terror attacks have sent shockwaves through the world, with most countries stepping up and expressing their support to France and promising stronger action against extremist organizations. The 13th November attacks have opened up new dimensions in the debate regarding international and domestic security, dealing with non-state actors and the war on terror.
Heads of states from all over the world have pledged to help France through this tough time, and while the focus on international collective defense increases, so does attention to internal security policies. China is presently citing the Paris terror attacks as an example of why its national policies on terror management are not only justified, but highly relevant.
Chinese President Xi Jinping contacted French President François Hollande after the Paris terror attacks to express Beijing’s sorrow for the tragedy and offer support. President Jinping spoke with President Hollande on the telephone and offered China’s full support in France’s fight against terrorism.
On Friday, November 13, three teams of assailants opened fire and detonated bombs at three different locations in Paris, France. In what has been dubbed the worst terrorist attack against France in modern history, 129 were killed and 352 injured. ISIS has claimed responsibility for the attacks, sparking off international outrage and renewed international action against the extremist group.
The website for China’s Foreign Ministry states that President Jinping called President Hollande to convey his condolences to the victims’ families and to condemn the attack.
While China has vowed to assist France in its efforts to combat intercontinental terrorism, experts on Chinese strategy share that Beijing remains completely focused on domestic security matters. It is believed that China’s real priority at the moment is to concentrate its anti-terrorism efforts on its own territory.
China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi touched upon the subject at the recent G20 summit in Turkey on November 15, 2015. Using the platform to draw the global community’s attention to China’s domestic troubles, the Chinese minister discussed the unrest in Xinjiang. The state-run media outfit Xinhua reports that Foreign Minister Wang Yi asked the gathered state representatives to help Beijing in its struggle against the Uighur separatist movement as part of the greater, global effort against terrorism.
Much of the international media’s coverage of China is focused on the state’s economic and military developments from the global-interest perspective, with the bulk of airtime/newsprint being devoted to Beijing’s regional and international pursuits. China’s insists that when it comes to the greater security debate, its domestic security situation is every bit as relevant as other countries’ experiences.
The last few years in China have been marked by the outbreak of armed violence, internal instability and terrorism. Much of the problem is attributed to the Uighur separatist movement. Clashes between the Uighur community and Chinese state forces have come to define political turbulence in China and its administrative regions. The Uighur community and observers critical of Beijing’s policies maintain that the Chinese state has exacerbated the internal conflict by adopting draconian laws and severely exploitive tactics.
The Uighur people are essentially a Turkicethnic community indigenous to Central and Eastern Asia. The community is predominantly located in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of China. The Uighur people are known for being a rather physically differentiated and very diverse community, the majority of which practices Islam.
The discord between the state and the Uighur people is primarily rooted in socio-economic divides that arise out of ethno-cultural differences. The Uighur people maintain that the best professional and social opportunities invariably go to the Han majority. The community has also complained repeatedly that the expression of its cultural and religious identity, as well as its economic ambitions, are systematically restricted by the state.
The differences have created a cycle of marginalization-dissent-repression and the ensuing conflict has taken on an extremely violent identity in recent years. The creation and existence of sovereign Islamic states in the region has fuelled the demand for an independent Uighur territory; for now, the autonomous region is classified under the People’s Republic of China as a Chinese administrative region.
Beijing maintains that addressing Uighur terrorism is of the utmost importance; international response to these assertions has been mostly mixed because there is a dearth of objective, third party information coming out of the region. The government has also enforced several regulations that amount to religious repression, such as forbidding the women from donning the burqua in places or canceling religious holidays such as Ramadan and even prohibiting parents/ guardians from instructing minors in religious activities.
China has asked that the international community cooperate with its efforts towards dealing with domestic terrorism challenges. Alluding to the sort of international attention, sympathy and support that incidents of terrorism against Western societies inspire, China has asked that the global community afford it an equal amount of respect and help.
Xinhua reports Foreign Minister Wang Yi saying, “China is also a victim of terrorism. The fight against the ‘East Turkestan Islamic Movement’… should become an important part of the international fight against terrorism”. The minister has expressed Beijing’s official position that the fight against terrorism should not be marked by “double standards” and the United Nations should inspire the world to present a “united front” against extremist non-state actors.
Beijing is reportedly worried about ISIS’ rise to power and the staggering frequency and degree of the group’s terrorist activities. Talk of ISIS has come to shape the international security debate more so than any other topic; authorities have realized that the rules of traditional warfare no longer apply when transnational outfits such as ISIS have all the same advantages as governments and few of the same restrictions.
That ISIS is known for- and ostensibly driven by- a religious identity has made a strong impression on the Chinese authorities; Beijing is worried that the common marker of an Islamic identity may prompt the Muslim Uighur groups to pursue stronger, more organized violent action against the Chinese state. Whether or not the religion and its associated identity are truly understood and represented in the same way between the groups in question is a matter of theological, philosophical and cultural exploration; but from the perspective of the state government, the common denominator may prove to be a trigger and create more trouble in Xinjiang.
According to state-supported news outlets, several people from the Uighur separatist movement are leaving China to participate in ISIS’ efforts in Iraq, Southeast Asia and Syria. The government in Beijing has shared that little is known about the phenomenon as yet and there hasn’t been substantial confirmation to back up the claims or build upon them.
Beijing’s efforts to contain the secessionist/ separatist elements within its own territory have received more attention in the wake of the terrorist attacks in Paris. Even domestic interest in China’s national anti-terrorism efforts has risen following the tragedy in Paris. According to the state-supported People’s Daily, the government is working to identify and contain terrorist elements in Xinjiang. The piece was published on the day after the attacks in Paris.
The report included photographs of Chinese police personnel (with the faces whitened out for safety reasons) trekking through and stationed in the troubled areas; the photomontage also carries images of the team preparing to raid a dwelling. One of the photographs depicts a note- presumably scribbled by one of the force members- that warns that violent opposition to the center will be defeated by “the people’s police and the people’s army”.
The People’s Daily report states, “France’s Paris was hit by its worst terrorist attack in history, with hundreds dead and injured. On the other side of the world, police in China’s Xinjiang, after 56 days of pursuing and attacking, carried out a full attack on the terrorists and got great results.”
Quartz reports that the source of these photographs has not been confirmed as yet and it is unclear where the pictures were taken; details regarding the terrorist activities that the police were sent in to contain are not known either. It is reported that Ministry of Public Security may be the original source of the photographs and accompanying information (they were posted online) but the original post as well as its subsequent copies have since been removed.
Guo Shengkun, the police chief in China, has instructed the Chinese forces to undertake more surveillance, information collection and analysis activities in the wake of the Paris attacks. The police chief is said to have issued the directive following an official meeting on Sunday. The website for China’s Ministry of Public Security shares that the Chinese forces will also be organizing patrols in known trouble hotspots.

Like our Facebook page for breaking news updates and leaks.

 Brinda Banerjee is a researcher working on security, armed conflict and military policies. She holds a Bachelor’s in Journalism (with Honors), a Master’s in Peace and Conflict Studies and is currently pursuing her Ph.D. in state responses to internal conflict. Brinda writes extensively about current events, conflict resolution and geopolitical dynamics in the modern world.