2015-10~12
http://www.thenational.scot/news/nicola-sturgeon-turns-down-invitation-to-palace-banquet-in-honour-of-chinese-premier-xi-jinping.8964

Nicola Sturgeon turns down invitation to palace banquet in honour of Chinese premier Xi Jinping | News | The National

 THERE is a corner of a Scottish castle that is for...


 DENYING police the power to search children for al...


 THE case should be made for Scotland to have a str...


 ONE person has been killed and two others are in a...


 GEORGE Osborne failed to appear in the Commons yes...


 SNP members who have been tagged as part of the s...


 IF THE British Government had any plans to send co...


 ROBERT Snodgrass believes he is back at “square on...


 ANOTHER RBS 6 Nations has come and gone, and again...


 TWO Scotland stars are in the running to be crowne...


 A MUCH-ANTICIPATED city deal that could be worth u...


 A UNION which represents bank staff claims RBS has...


 A SCOTTISH firm recognised as a world leader in it...


 THE A WORD, BBC1, 9pmTHERE are people who say beha...


 IS your name Fiona, or do you know anyone by that ...


 THE suicide bomber who killed himself and four for...


 WHILE the United States has condemned the human ri...


 LABOUR, the party I grew up around, has had a funn...


 LORD Apetsi is a father of two. He is, as I was ju...

NICOLA Sturgeon has turned down an invitation to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping during his state visit to the UK.
Roch the win i the clear day's dawin. Blaws the clouds heilster-gowdie owre the bay. But thair's mair nor a roch win blawin. Thro the Great Glen o the warl the day. It's a thocht that wad gar our rottans. Aa thae rogues that gang gallus fresh an gay.
Tak the road an seek ither loanins. Wi thair ill-ploys tae sport an play. Nae mair will our bonnie callants. Merch tae war whan our braggarts crousely craw. Nor wee weans frae pitheid an clachan. Murn the ships sailin doun the Broomielaw. Broken faimilies in launs we've hairriet. Will curse 'Scotlan the Brave' nae mair, nae mair.
Black an white ane-til-ither mairriet. Mak the vile barracks o thair maisters bare. Sae come aa ye at hame wi freedom. Never heed whit the houdies croak for Doom. In yer hous aa the bairns o Aidam.
Will fin breid, barley-bree an paintit room. Whan MacLean meets wi's friens in Springburn. Aa thae roses an geeans will turn tae blume. An a black laud frae yont Nyanga. Dings the fell gallows o the burghers doun.
Registered users can read up to 10 articles for free each month.
If you would prefer unlimited access, please support our journalism with a website subscription. Subscribe today for just £3.99 a month.
NICOLA Sturgeon has turned down an invitation to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping during his state visit to the UK.
The news came as Buckingham Palace prepared to roll out the red carpet for the Chinese premier’s first visit to Britain.
It is understood the First Minister had been invited to the state banquet to be held in honour of the Chinese premier at Buckingham Palace tonight but has declined due to “existing commitments”.
A Scottish Government spokeswoman said: “Scotland values its strong relationship with China – the First Minister had a successful visit to China in July and External Affairs Secretary Fiona Hyslop recently attended the UK China High Level People to People Dialogue in September where the Chinese side was led by Vice-Premier Madam Liu Yandong.
“Due to existing commitments the First Minister is unable to attend dinner with President Xi.”
The National understand that, through UK Trade & Investment, Scottish companies are taking part in various business summits around the visit.
China is big business for Scotland. The Scottish Government estimates exports from Scotland to China in 2013 were worth almost £580 million – an increase of 118 per cent since 2007.
Tourists from the country also brought in £112m into the Scottish economy in 2012-14, almost twice as much than in the previous period.
Xi’s visit is proving controversial, with Britain accused of overlooking human rights violations while the Chinese delegation are in the country. Rebiya Kadeer, president of the World Uyghur Congress, told reporters that in the red carpet being rolled out was “the blood of the Uighur people, Tibet and other Chinese dissidents,” accusing Xi of turning his hometown of Xinjiang “almost into a war zone”.
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn is expected to raise human rights with Xi during a private meeting in Buckingham Palace later this afternoon. Before the two men meet, Xi will address MPs and Lords at the Houses of Parliament.
It is the first state visit from a Chinese President to the UK in 10 years. London is covered in the large red flags of the People’s Republic of China.
The Communist leader and his wife Peng Liyuan arrived late last night.Today they will be met by Prince Charles and taken to Horseguards Parade where Xi and Prince Philip will inspect the guards.
Amnesty International and other human rights groups have planned a protest nearby in St James’ Park, although a pro-China protest is also expected to take place. David Cameron said Xi’s visit was a “very important moment”. Chancellor George Osborne has said the Government’s intends to make the UK China’s “best partner in the west”.
China refuses to apologise for role in steel job losses
Beijing feels the heat as China's economy continues to cool
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Scotland's only daily newspaper supporting independence - support our journalism with a website subscription.
 For less than 20p per day.
▶▶ Subscription Info ◀◀

© Copyright 2016 Herald & Times Group. All rights reserved.
free articles remaining this month
 ...and another 5 after you register for free