2015-10~12
http://www.inquisitr.com/2592881/serge-kovaleski-donald-trump-first-name-basis-for-years/

Serge Kovaleski, ‘New York Times’ Reporter With Arthrogryposis: ‘Donald And I Were On A First-Name Basis For Years’
Serge Kovaleski, the New York Times reporter who stated that he could not remember “anyone saying there were thousands, or even hundreds, of people celebrating,” in an interview with MSNBC, in response to Donald Trump’s claim that “thousands” of Muslims in New Jersey celebrated as the Twin Towers burned in New York on September 11, 2001, has stated that he has personally met Donald Trump about a dozen times and was on a “first-name basis” with him.
MSNBC was interviewing Kovaleski because he had authored a 2001 piece with the Washington Post to investigate if there was any basis in fact for Donald Trump’s assertions about the sympathies of New Jersey Muslims, as reported by the Inquisitr.
[Photo by Ty Wright/Getty Images]Then, in a video from a South Carolina rally, on November 24, Trump was seen holding his hands up in front of himself, contorting his wrists, waving his arms around, and speaking with regard to Kovaleski.
“Now, the poor guy — you ought to see the guy: ‘Uh, I don’t know what I said. I don’t remember.'”
After many media outlets, including Kovaleski’s employer, the New York Times, rushed to his defense and simultaneously condemned Trump’s actions, Trump was quoted with regard to Serge Kovaleski.
“I have no idea who this reporter, Serge Kovalski [sic], is, what he looks like or his level of intelligence. Despite having one of the all-time great memories, I certainly do not remember him… Mr. Kovaleski is handicapped, I would not know because I do not know what he looks like. If I did know, I would definitely not say anything about his appearance.”
Herein I Dispute Trump's claims.
Donald Trump Says His Mocking of New York Times Reporter Was Misread https://t.co/HJsU43Z8CK
Serge Kovaleski has flatly denied Donald Trump’s assertion that he doesn’t know who he is.
“Donald and I were on a first-name basis for years,” Kovaleski was quoted. “I’ve interviewed him in his office.”
In total, Kovaleski estimated that he personally dealt with Donald Trump “around a dozen” times when he worked as a writer with the New York Daily News.
[Photo by Ty Wright/Getty Images]Trump has also tried to frame Kovaleski’s comments as the reporter attempting to distance himself from what he had written in 2001, with regard to a “tailgate” party.
“Nothing could be further from the truth,” Kovaleski stated to the New York Times.
Serge F. Kovaleski’s profile with the New York Times lists 364 articles. He has written for the New York Daily News, the Washington Post, the Miami News, and Money Magazine. He is also a Pulitzer Prize winner.
Trump was also quoted that he felt Kovaleski should stop “using his disability” to “grandstand,” as reported by CNN. Since Trump has been criticized for his seeming mimicking of Kovaleski, he has unleashed a stream of anti-New York Times tweets.
I do not know the reporter for the @nytimes, or what he looks like. I was showing a person groveling to take back a statement made long ago!
The failing @nytimes should focus on fair and balanced reporting rather than constant hit jobs on me. Yesterday 3 boring articles, today2!
Donald Trump’s comments with regard to a Black Lives Matter protester, Mercutio Southall, who he supposed might have deserved to have been “roughed up” at a rally in Birmingham, Alabama have also been attracting attention. Reportedly, a woman who was with the protester, who were both wearing Black Lives Matter T-shirts, had a camera intentionally knocked out of her hand. In reaction, the man and woman reportedly began shouting “Black Lives Matter.”
Several rally participants were reported to have kicked, punched, and stepped on Southall. He was eventually pulled away and presumably ejected from the event. Cenk Uygur with the Young Turks discusses that while Southall might have been deserving of being civilly escorted from the building, he most certainly did not deserve to be the subject of a violent assault.
Uygur also points out that the Birmingham police referred to Southall as an “agitator” instead of investigating the incident and filing charges against the people who appear to assault him in the available video. Further, Uygur suggests that Donald Trump has fascist leanings and that this is “how fascism begins.”
What has been perceived as confounding is that the more Donald Trump continues with his antics, the more he rises in polls. He currently leads Ben Carson with 27.5 percent of Republican voter support, according to Real Clear Politics. Most recent polls only include data included before November 19, before his Serge Kovaleski and Birmingham rally statements; many have called for Trump’s numbers to crash with each mounting gaffe. Yet his support appears to remain solid.
Now Watch This: Fifteen People Murdered In Pakistan Bomb Blast
Now Read This: Powerball Winning Numbers And Winners For March 19, Watch Live Drawing Video As Jackpot Rolls To $90 Million