2015-10~12
http://www.todayonline.com/world/thailand-knew-deported-chinese-were-refugees-awaiting-resettlement-canada-un-document

Thailand knew deported Chinese were refugees awaiting resettlement in Canada: U.N. document | TODAYonline
BANGKOK - The Thai junta knew that two Chinese men it detained were refugees awaiting resettlement in Canada but still deported them to China, according to a United Nations letter seen by Reuters.
The letter, sent by the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) to the Thai foreign ministry, contradicts Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha's statement last week that Thailand "did not know" that the men were under UNHCR protection.
Military-ruled Thailand has been criticized for deporting the two dissidents, Jiang Yefei and Dong Guangping, at Beijing's request in mid-November, despite both being recognized as refugees.
Prayuth last week said China had arrest warrants out for the men. Reuters could not confirm this.
Rights groups have denounced Communist Party rulers in China for their secretive system of detention of dissidents and lack of an independent judiciary to ensure fair trials. China says it follows the rule of law.
Thailand drew international criticism in July when it deported more than 100 Uighur Muslims to China. The Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking minority from China's troubled western Xinjiang region and rights groups said the deportees could face ill-treatment at home.
Jiang and Dong, who were arrested by Thai authorities on Oct. 28, were awaiting resettlement in Canada. They were deported back to China on Nov. 14 or 15, and their current whereabouts were unknown.
In the letter, dated Nov. 16, the UNHCR raised its objections to the deportations and reminded the Thai foreign ministry that it had informed the government in writing on Nov. 10 that the men were refugees and had been accepted for rapid resettlement by Canada.
The letter said UNHCR had written to the Thai justice ministry, immigration bureau, foreign ministry and National Security Council.
It said UNHCR had previously asked Thai authorities to suspend the deportation of the men and had kept the government fully informed of their legal status.