2015-10~12
http://www.juancole.com/2015/12/muslims-shield-christians-from-al-shabab-terror.html

Muslims Shield Christians from al-Shabab Terror | Informed Comment
Cenk Uygur | (The Young Turks Video Report) | – –
“Al-Shabaab is a terrorist group that operates in Somalia and Kenya. Lately they have been attacking buses full of civilians, particularly non-Muslims. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down.
“Their M.O. is a tried and terrifying one: Launch a raid, single out Christians, and then spray them with bullets.
But when Al-Shabaab militants ambushed a bus Monday, things didn’t go according to plan.
A group of Kenyan Muslims shielded the Christian passengers and told the attackers they were prepared to die together.
The Muslim passengers, who were mostly women, told the Islamic militants to kill them all or leave them alone, witnesses said.”
These Islamic fundamentalists are nevertheless human beings. There must be some series of events or lines of reasoning which eventually will make them subject to persuasion by other Muslim stake holders.
If “Israel is provoking a global holy war” over Aqsa, it won’t be the first time. Prime Minister Sharon perpetrated the same sort of provocations. As was the case with him then, the present leadership’s purposes diverge from the interests of the rest of the globe to say nothing of Europe and North America.
Though a portion of Israeli and American Zionist ideologues will certainly disagree, the West is not required to draw THEIR conclusions as to how WE are to deal with these dangers. As their single most important cause is the Occupation and as we have the power to end it and to still defend Israel from any conceivable invasion, now is the time to bring on the French Resolution and to see to it that it passes in the UNSC with the appropriate deadlines and overt declarations as to what we’re doing, where it is heading, i.e., economic sanctions for non-compliance, and how it is based on almost fifty years of American policy.
The passionate revolutionaries of Araby and the West will share a victory without without even having to mention it in those terms the moment the Palestinian leadership declares itself satisfied with the Resolution with certain knowledge of the penalties which will follow for violation.
Those who say this can’t be done or to themselves that they can’t support it publicly will have to ask themselves “why?’
@cenkuygur People need to see this for the bigotry against Muslims to end.
@cenkuygur that area of Kenya has been ignored by govt,was messed more when US bailed Somalia, great on the Muslims for being noble
Thank you to all of my supporters for your generosity and your encouragement of an independent press! Checks to
 Juan ColeP. O. Box 4218Ann Arbor, MI48106-4218 (No Parcels Please)
