2015-10~12
http://asia.nikkei.com/magazine/20151008-SEA-CHANGE/Politics-Economy/Uighurs-reach-60-years-of-autonomy-under-China

Uighurs reach 60 years of 'autonomy' under China- Nikkei Asian Review
BEIJING -- The Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region in western China marked the 60th anniversary of its establishment on Oct 1. Beijing emphasizes the benefits that it believes the region enjoys from a "high degree of autonomy" and economic development pushed by the central government. But tension exists between Uighurs and Han Chinese, with ethnic conflict simmering just below the surface.
     "In the past 60 years, Xinjiang has surged high and swept forward in history," proclaimed Yu Zhengsheng, the fourth-highest-ranking figure in the ruling Chinese Communist Party. Yu, who is in charge of religious groups and ethnic minorities, was speaking at the anniversary event in Xinjiang People's Hall, in the regional capital of Urumqi. He boasted that "glorious achievements have attracted worldwide attention."
     No matter how he presents the official party line, most ethnic Uighurs seem to resent Beijing's crackdown on their religion and culture and its sinicization policies. More and more Uighurs are now fleeing China.
     In Thailand, local authorities suspect a recent bombing in Bangkok is related to the illegal trafficking of Uighur migrants into the country. China's problems with Uighurs have begun to ripple outside of the country. 
A 19-year-old Uighur girl came to Beijing in September to enter Minzu University of China. She is learning Chinese in the university's preparatory course.
     In Kashgar -- the western part of the autonomous region, from which she hails -- Uighurs make up 90% of all residents. However, she belongs to the generation of Uighurs that have been affected most by Beijing's sinicization.
     "I have never taken part in prayers," she said. She was born into a relatively wealthy family of civil servants. Such households are banned from conducting or participating in any religious observances. She has grown up without learning anything about what has happened to Uighurs in the autonomous region and across the world, mainly because of information control by the Chinese government.
     In fact, a prominent Uighur economics professor at the university where she studies was abruptly detained by Chinese authorities in January 2014. Ilham Tohti was arrested for being a "separatist" and sentenced for life last September, even though he is well-known for being a staunch supporter for dialogue between Uighurs and Han Chinese.
     The Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region was established in 1955 following the People's Liberation Army march into Xinjiang in 1949 after winning the civil war against the Kuomintang-led government. As Yu mentioned in his speech, gross domestic product in the region is now 115.6 times that of 1955. However, a large number of Han Chinese have since settled there, and the ethnic Uighurs as a percentage of the population have fallen below 50%. In reality, the region is ruled by the Communist leadership, belying its "autonomous" title.
     Beijing has stepped up its clampdown on Muslim cultural and religious customs, placing a ban on beards and ethnic dress except for government-designated ones, for example. "We had just gathered at our home for prayers when my wife and children were taken away by the authorities," a Muslim resident in the Kashgar region said. Since President Xi Jinping came to power, the government has increasingly suppressed discontent by force. This has led to a rapid increase in the number of Uighur refugees.
"Over there! Catch them!" shouted a plainclothes police officer. In the dark of night, he was running after a moving light that he saw in the city of Pingxiang in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, a mountainous district that borders Vietnam. The police were chasing a group of Uighurs who wanted to illegally migrate using a route developed by ivory smugglers. In January this year, a Uighur tried to evade capture by fleeing into a residential area, but was shot and killed by police.
     Guangxi is about 3,000km away from Xinjiang. An estimated 5,000 Uighurs risk their lives every month attempting to flee the country and escape oppression. In July, the Thai government forcibly deported back to China more than 100 Uighurs who had been detained in Thailand after ill-fated attempts to escape.
     Even more starkly, on Sept. 30, a series of package bombs exploded in the southern Guangxi city of Liuzhou. Another one detonated on the morning of Oct. 1, the day when the anniversary ceremony was being held in Urumqi. According to the state-run media, a single suspect conducted a serial bombing, but the timing of the incident may have shocked the Chinese leadership.
The international community continues to turn a blind eye to the plight of Xinjiang, out of consideration for China's economic clout and influence. On Sept. 23, British finance minister George Osborne became the first minister from his country to visit Xinjiang, amid a chorus of criticism from human rights groups.
     China's state media gave extensive coverage of his visit, reporting that Osborne had expressed hopes for the future development of Xinjiang. The reporting suggested that the British government has endorsed Beijing's policy for the region.
     Nevertheless, Uighur groups are doing what they can to draw global media attention to the suffering of their people.
     In Turkey, Seyit Tumturk, vice president of the World Uyghur Congress, an international umbrella body of exiled Uighur groups, led the demonstration in front of the Chinese Embassy in Ankara on Oct. 1. He emphasized that there is no chance of winning a fight "against the world's second most powerful country" and therefore his compatriots only "find solution in migration."
     The congress issued an official statement on Sept. 30 stating that "the vast majority of [Uighurs] view Oct. 1 as a reason to mourn the loss of their right to self-determination." Even though China claims to have established an "autonomous region," what it really has done, the group said, "represent[s] the very opposite of [Uighur] control over their own affairs," including the denial of human rights and freedom.
     The massive influx of investment and the subsequent economic gains claimed by Beijing "have gone to Chinese immigrants," the group said. The plentiful natural resources -- oil, coal and natural gas -- have been extracted and siphoned off from the region "for use in eastern China to fuel an economic boom that Chinese officials do not seem to think should extend to [Uighur] communities."
     The statement issued by the congress closes with a piece of advice to the Chinese. "The mark of greatness for any nation in the 21st century is not to create an artificial empire by occupying, annexing and colonizing other nations and subjecting their people to tremendous suffering and death, but to respect the political choices of other nations and peoples through the internationally recognized right of self-determination."
Nikkei deputy editor Kenji Kawase in Tokyo and Nikkei staff writer Sinan Tavsan in Istanbul contributed to this story.
You have limited access. To enjoy full access, subscribe now.
Your subscription renewal has not been processed.Please update your payment information and enjoy full access.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week

Your subscription renewal could not be processed. Please update your payment information to continue enjoying the Nikkei Asian Review.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week


 Nikkei Asian Review is the only publication that brings you Insight about Asia, from the inside out.
 XXcontractNameXX has enabled you free full access to Nikkei Asian Review.
