2015-10~12
http://www.dw.com/en/us-urges-release-of-chinese-dissidents-in-growing-crackdown/a-18784093

US urges release of Chinese dissidents in growing crackdown | News | DW.COM | 15.10.2015

Washington has renewed its call for China to release a Christian rights activist and an underage boy suspected to be under house arrest. Secretary of State John Kerry attacked China for imprisoning people without cause.


The United States on Wednesday called on China to release human rights lawyer Zhang Kai and said it was concerned by reports that the son of another detained rights lawyer had been put under house arrest.

In releasing the State Department's annual International Religious Freedom Report, US Secretary of State John Kerry said Zhang, a Chinese Christian, was detained shortly before a meeting in August with the US ambassador for international religious freedom, who was visiting China at the time. The US envoy told reporters in Washington that three human rights lawyers, four pastors and three or four other activists had been detained before he could meet them.

"I urge the release of men and women detained or imprisoned anywhere in the world for the peaceful expression and practice of their religious beliefs," Kerry told reporters.

"This includes Mr. Zhang Kai, a Chinese Christian human rights lawyer who was detained in late August just prior to a scheduled meeting with Ambassador [David] Saperstein, and whose present whereabouts are unknown."

Separately, the State Department said it was concerned with reports that 
Bao Zhuoxuan, the 16-year-old son of detained rights lawyer 
Wang Yu and her detained husband Bao Longjun, had been put under house arrest in Inner Mongolia, China.
Human right lawyer Wang Yu was put under arrest earlier this year
Wang Yu, a lawyer at the Fengrui law firm in Beijing, which defends prominent dissidents such as Uighur economist Ilham Tohti, was rounded up with her husband and son by state authorities in June. Her son was later released but was barred from travel.

"We urge China to uphold its international human rights commitments and protect the health and safety of this minor child," State Department spokesman John Kirby said in a statement.

He added that China should allow Bao to leave the country and to study overseas as his family wanted.

Kirby said that the US was "disturbed by a seemingly systematic campaign by China to target family members of Chinese citizens who peacefully challenge official policy and work to protect the rights of others."

Since President Xi Jinping came to power in 2013, the Chinese government has taken a harder line towards civil and religious society. More than 200 lawyers and activists, including Zhang, were questioned or detained in July as part of a sweeping nationwide crackdown. The move has been 
condemned by many foreign governments.
The son of a prominent Chinese human rights lawyer has gone missing in Myanmar. The child's mother has also gone missing, as Beijing cracks down on activists at home. (11.10.2015)
  

Beijing is planning a huge military parade to commemorate Japan's defeat in World War II. China has invited several heads of state, but Japan's Shinzo Abe and many other world leaders are giving the party a miss. (25.08.2015)
  

Chinese state media report numerous lawyers arrested during a recent crackdown on legal activists have pled guilty to a range of offences. Hong Kong barristers have launched a global petition against the arrests. (19.07.2015)
  

In the run-up to the Olympic games, the authorities announced they would distribute 10,000 Bibles around the Olympic village for the Christian guests. The biggest Bible printing press in the world is in the eastern Chinese city of Nanjing. Anyone bringing Bibles into the country is likely to encounter problems at customs however. In China, the relationship between the State and the Christian Church remains tense. There are two state-sanctioned Christian churches. However, many of the estimated 60 to 100 million Christians belong to so-called house churches, which are often referred to collectively as the “underground” church. (20.08.2008)
  

US Secretary of State John Kerry has met separately with the Colombian government and the Marxist FARC guerilla group. He called for them to "redouble" their efforts to resolve their remaining issues.
A teenage girl and a 20-year-old man are set to be charged with funding terrorism in Sydney. Police have warned of the worrying trend of seeing young people get involved in helping militants.
Leading US Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has received a lukewarm response from pro-Israeli advocates. The mogul toned down his fiery rhetoric for the annual AIPAC conference.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
