2015-10~12
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/policies-politics/article/1874053/china-prosecute-former-top-tibet-spy-and-security

China to prosecute former top Tibet spy and security official for graft | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
A former top Chinese spy and security official in Tibet will be prosecuted for alleged corruption, the ruling Communist Party’s anti-graft watchdog said on Friday in a rare example of graft-busters going into the restive and remote region.
Le Dake, who was deputy head of Tibet’s regional legislature when he became the subject of an investigation in June, is suspected of abuse of power and bribery, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection said.
He had been expelled from the party and his case would be handed over to the legal authorities, it said, which means that he will be prosecuted.
The statement provided no other details and it was not possible to reach Le for comment.
Le’s official biography states that he was head of the State Security Department in Tibet from 2004 to 2013.
Before that, he was deputy chief of the provincial spy agency for four years in Jiangxi , where he was born and began his police career in 1980.
President Xi Jinping has vowed to combat deep-seated corruption since assuming power in late 2012, although areas of China with big minority populations, such as Xinjiang and Tibet, have largely escaped the campaign so far.
State media said in January that anti-graft authorities had punished 15 senior party officials in Tibet after they were found guilt of corruption last year.
China has ruled Tibet with an iron hand since People’s Liberation Army troops “peacefully liberated” the region in 1950.
Tibetan parts of China erupted in widespread anti-Chinese protests in 2008, and what China calls the Tibet Autonomous Region remains under tight security.
In a separate statement, the anti-graft watchdog said Gu Chunli, who was a vice-governor of the northeastern province of Jilin, had also been expelled from the party and would be prosecuted for suspected corruption.
It was also not possible to reach him for comment.