2015-10~12
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/71048/20151208/chinese-isis-terrorists-in-china-isis-calls-to-arms-mandarin-seeks-chinese-recruits.htm

ISIS Attempts to Lure Chinese Recruits with Mandarin Song : Politics : Chinatopix
ISIS has released a song in Mandarin to recruit Chinese Muslims.(Photo : Getty Images)
Extremist group Islamic State has released a call to arms chant in Mandarin that seeks to summon Chinese Muslims just two weeks following its execution of a Chinese hostage.
SITE Intelligence Group, who track and monitor radical groups online, was able to intercept information that Al-Hayat Media Center broadcasted a four-minute chant, known as nasheeds, which was distributed through Twitter and another app called Telegram.
The song seems professionally produced with inviting lyrics that incite people to die for Islam. When translated into English, the lyrics include the lines:"We are Mujahid, our shameless enemy panics before us...Our dream is to die fighting on this battlefield."
According to SITE, the nasheed being recorded in Mandarin "is yet another example of the IS seeking to broaden its reach and support base."
In a statement, China foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said that she was not aware of the song, saying, "We hope we can safeguard the citizens of every country through international cooperation."
While it is still unclear which specific group is being targeted by the song, Chinese officials are expected to treat this seriously. According to earlier reports, 300 members of the ethnic group Uighur traveled to Israel and Syria to join ISIS recently. 
It should be noted that there are Chinese groups who are predominately Muslim. China's Hui ethnic group, for example, numbers more than 10 million. While this group speaks Mandarin, they have traditionally practiced a moderate form of Islam. 
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent rumors have emerged that Sacramento Kings All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins could finally move to the Los Angeles Lakers in the summer following his recent comments about the Hollywood squad’s young players after the two team’s recent game. read more