2015-10~12
http://www.hamiltonnews.com/news-story/6164049-islamic-state-extends-recruitment-efforts-to-china-with-new-chant/

Islamic State extends recruitment efforts to China with new chant
In one of the closest votes on the Mountain in recent history former CHCH...
Jesy Nelson has sprained her wrist whilst on tour with her fellow Little...
Ontario's food woes stretch beyond one section of the condiment aisle.
Question:
My Agreement of Purchase and Sale for a condominium unit is...

 BEIJING — The Islamic State has been recruiting far and wide for members to join its ranks on the battlefields of Iraq and Syria or elsewhere. Now those efforts are extending to China.


 The group recently posted a digital recording of a new chant in Mandarin Chinese that calls for Muslims to "wake up" and "take up weapons to fight." The chant is typical of many others released by the group, also called ISIS or ISIL.


 The chant was posted online by Al Hayat Media Center, the foreign-language media division of the Islamic State, according to an assessment Monday by the SITE Intelligence Group, which tracks the propaganda of jihadi groups.


 The chant, or nasheed, is an exhortation to rise up but does not specify a target. It could be aimed at placing China in the cross hairs. The Islamic State's leader, the cleric Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, released a recording in July 2014 in which he named China as one of many countries in which "Muslims' rights are forcibly seized."


 Some political Muslim groups, especially in Turkey, have joined international human rights advocates and other organizations in condemning China's anti-Islamic policies in the western region of Xinjiang.


 There, many Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking ethnic group that mostly practices Sunni Islam, say they are discriminated against and persecuted by the ruling ethnic Han.


 In recent years, violence has surged in Uighur areas, and the Communist Party says it faces a terrorist threat there. Chinese officials have said that security officers have seized recordings from abroad that inspire Uighurs to take up arms. Last month, Chinese officials said that security forces had used a flamethrower to force 10 "terrorists" from a cave in Xinjiang after tracking a group that officials believed to be responsible for a recent deadly coal mine attack. Security officers killed 28 people linked to the attack, official reports said.


 The Chinese recording is addressed to the "Muslim brother" who is listening, but the Islamic State kills many Muslims, including by beheading and burning victims alive.


 There is no reliable information on how many Chinese have joined the Islamic State or other armed groups in Syria to fight against the government of President Bashar Assad, whose forces have killed huge numbers of civilians.

One-third of your home’s heating and cooling energy is lost through its windows and doors, so...
The Coffee Gourmand in Hamilton, Ontario, is your local source for premium coffee that not only...
Getting hurt is never a pleasant prospect, and getting the assistance you need afterwards can be...
The very worst of winter's wrath can be difficult for any business to deal with, so ensure your...
Whether you want to fence others out or simply keep your belongings in, building a fence with...
Whether your upcoming wedding will be an intimate affair or a grand celebration for 400, Heritage...
Question:


I broke my leg on a ski hill during a ski lesson. Do I have a legal case?


Answer:...
Question:


As a Canadian professional can I work in the United States?


Answer:


The North...
March is Fraud Prevention Month. And in my practice I have seen all types of individuals wish to...
The Hamilton Family Foot Care Clinic in Hamilton, Ontario, can help provide relief from the pain...
Custom Direct Windows & Doors Ltd., located in Stoney Creek, knows that increasing the value of...
If you have a daughter under 10, you probably know all about Lego Friends. These specialized Lego...
Question:


I am renewing my auto insurance policy soon – what should I be discussing with my...
When the Krown Rust Control came to Hamilton, it brought with it three decades of experience and...
By David Grossman


Stefan Ptaszek began to see a pattern of coaching leadership that influenced...
We all want to avoid costly plumbing repairs, so Binbrook Plumbing & Heating in Binbrook, Ontario,...
Blood Pressure Kiosk In-Store*




High blood pressure is one of the main risk factors for heart...
Hilltop Express in Hamilton is proud to offer authentic Greek and Canadian takeout daily. Pop in at...
Question:


What are the new rules regarding pedestrian crossovers and school crossings in...