2015-10~12
http://forexreportdaily.com/2015/10/02/9033-thai-police-link-suspect-in-bangkok-bombing-to-previous-explosions/

Thai police link suspect in Bangkok bombing to previous explosions - Fx Report Daily
Even though he has now admitted to being the yellow-shirted suspect, police will not believe it until there is enough evidence to back it up, Pol Lt Gen Srivara said.
Authorities are hunting for further evidence to confirm that detained suspect Bilal Turk, also known as Adem Karadag, was the bomber behind the Erawan shrine blast, despite his alleged confession.
An unnamed source at the Turkish immigration department – who did not wish to be named as he was not authorized to speak to media – told Anadolu Agency on Monday that Uighur arriving from overseas are given humanitarian residency and – “under normal procedure” – can then be granted a passport on obtaining citizenship after just five years. “Adem is the yellow-shirted man who planted the bomb”. The theory was bolstered by the fact that the Erawan Shrine is popular among Chinese tourists, who figured prominently among the victims of the bombing. Thai investigators commonly use this method.
The passport, verified as real, identified him as being from China’s western Xinjiang region.
Nattawut Saikua, another leader of the UDD, warned that Somyot’s claim the attack is linked to domestic politics may end up damaging Thailand’s reputation. Investigations revealed that he left Thailand on August.
There had been multiple global terrorist attacks because of this same reason.
Thai officials, who insist the attack had no political element to it, have conceded that the gang worked to smuggle Uighurs out of China.
Worachai Hema, a United Front for Democracy against Dictatorship core member, has questioned national police chief Somyot Poompunmuang’s motive in saying last month’s Erawan shrine and Sathon pier bombings might be linked to a political group.
However, the top police and other officials say the group was likely hired by others.
“We can’t rule out political motives”, because Aod was also involved.
However, the police have not suggested that the attack was politically motivated. “Numerous conflicting and confusing statements about the suspects and engagement with other countries’ police forces have needlessly eroded credibility when what is demanded is truth and justice for the victims and survivors”.
“Nor have the Thai authorities informed us that a terrorism suspect was travelling to Turkey”. They fear it will harm Thailand’s important tourism industry.
Uighurs are an ethnic group of Muslim people with ties to Turks.
The deportation to China of 109 Uighur in July saw families separated, husbands taken away from wives and fathers and mothers from children. Rights groups and exiled Uighurs condemned the move by the Thai military government.
Following their forcible return to China, violent protests in Istanbul targeted the Thai and Chinese missions.
Turkey’s diplomatic mission in Bangkok has twice expressed concerns about reported links to its nationals. He said the two men also had offered confessions.
Copyright © 2016 · Minimum Pro Theme On Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in