2015-10~12
http://www.newsfultoncounty.com/politics/news/1315790-military-court-jurisdiction-over-thai-bombing-disputed

Military Court Jurisdiction Over Thai Bombing Disputed | Fulton News
- Suspect's lawyer says he will contest decision to hold case in military court, saying case already in civilian court system
– Suspect’s lawyer says he will contest decision to hold case in military court, saying case already in civilian court system
BANGKOK – The lawyer of one of the main suspects in the Aug. 17 Bangkok bombing has said he will contest the jurisdiction of the military courts over the case.
Chuchart Kanpai, lawyer of Bilal Mohammed — a Uighur accused of placing a bag containing a bomb at a Hindu shrine in downtown Bangkok — told the Bangkok Post on Friday that as soon as military prosecutors indict his client he will petition to have the case transferred to a civilian court.
Kanpai’s main argument is that the suspect appeared soon after his arrest on Aug. 29 in front of the Minburi provincial court, in the suburban area where the arrest took place.
On Aug. 17, a powerful bomb exploded at the Erawan Shrine, a spot popular with Asian tourists, in the heart of Bangkok commercial district.
Courts issued 17 arrest warrants for a wide array of suspects, but only two remain in detention.
Besides Mohammed, who was arrested in an apartment where bomb-making equipment was being stored, Yusuf Mieraili, a Chinese man born in Xinjiang and arrested along the Thai-Cambodian border on Sept. 1, is also in custody.
Mieraili, who has no lawyer, has allegedly admitted to detonating the bomb during police interrogations.
Kanpai told the Post that he expects the military prosecutors to indict Mohammed for murder and possession of explosives on Nov. 24, the last day of the period he can be legally detained without indictment.
On Nov. 3, Kanpai told Anadolu Agency that his client affirmed that “he was ordered to do the bombing and that the attack was connected to the deportation of 109 Uighur to China in July.”
“[Abdullah] Abdulrahman, the man who, he said, ordered the bombing, told him that the 109 deported back to China had probably been killed after being sent back to China”, added Kanpai.
On Oct. 8, Mohammed said that he had planted the bomb at the behest of Abdulrahman, who had also promised him passage to Turkey.
An arrest warrant was issued against Abdulrahman at the beginning of September and an identikit published.
Abdulrahman has also been identified by police as the man who organized the rental of the apartment where Mohammed was arrested in the eastern suburbs of Bangkok.
Hundreds of Uighur fleeing alleged repression of their religious and cultural rights in the northwestern Chinese province of Xinjiang arrived in Thailand at the beginning of 2014 and were detained by authorities, who considered them illegal immigrants.
109 of them, 85 men and 24 woman, were deported by Bangkok to China in July. Around 180 had earlier been sent to Turkey, their final intended destination.
When television images emerged of the Uighur deported to China — showing them sitting in the plane blindfolded, handcuffed and under the surveillance of guards — it caused an uproar among local and foreign rights groups.
It was also condemned by the United States government and the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.
Police and the military government have been very careful to disconnect the bombing from the July deportation, which was qualified as a major diplomatic faux pas even by local political analysts.
They have been adamant that the bombing was carried out as revenge by a human smuggling network unhappy about a crackdown launched by authorities in May.

  Bilal Mohammed, Chuchart Kanpai, Erawan Shrine, Thailand, Uighur, Yusuf Mieraili
Military court jurisdiction over Thai bombing disputed added by Selim ALTIN on November 13, 2015View all posts by Selim ALTIN →