2015-10~12
http://www.womenofchina.cn/womenofchina/html1/news/action/1510/197-1.htm

President Xi's Speech Sparks Heated Discussions - All China Women's Federation
Chinese President Xi Jinping's speech at a high-level summit at the UN headquarters sparked heated discussion among citizens of Kashgar, a city in northwestern China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.
Xi spoke at the Global Leaders' Meeting on Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment: A Commitment to Action which was held by China and the UN Women in New York on September 27 and gathered world leaders for a universal message to address problems facing women and girls.
The year 2015 marks the 20th anniversary of the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing and the adoption of the Beijing Declaration and the Platform for Action, a comprehensive roadmap for gender equality and women's empowerment.
At the summit marking the event two decades ago, President Xi said that the pursuit of gender equality is "a great cause," for "a review of history shows that without women's liberation and progress, the liberation and progress of mankind would not be attainable."
The president put forward a four-point proposal on promoting gender equality and women's all-around development worldwide, such as striving for women's development, protecting women's rights and interests, ensuring sufficient basic medical services, and developing vocational and life-long education for women.
In his speech, Xi vowed that in the next five years, China will help developing countries start 100 projects related to the health of women and children, send out medical teams, and help girls from poor families gain access to education. China also vowed to do more to enhance gender equality as a basic state policy.
On the morning of September 30, female representatives in a village of Naizeerbage Township in Kashgar watched a news broadcast showing President Xi's remarks at the summit, which prompted spirited discussion. The work group of the Xinjiang Women's Federation in the village reviewed a video of the summit and interpreted Xi's speech, which greatly encouraged all of them. Following that, the attendees expressed their ideas and feelings about the speech.
During the discussion, Gao Peixiang, head of the work group, reviewed women's development and the great progress of women's causes in Xinjiang over the past two decades. She said that women and men enjoy equal rights in every arena, including politics, economics, culture, society and family, and that she herself and the two vice heads of the work group have grown to be female leaders after the UN World Conference on Women in 1995, showing the remarkable achievements that the Communist Party of China (CPC) and the governemnt have made in the implementation of the gender equality state policy.
Gao said that the Global Leaders' Meeting on Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment: A Commitment to Action was a significant political event for women of all Chinese ethnicities and they were touched by the great importance that President Xi has attached to women's causes and his concern for women.
Throughout the discussion, the attendees agreed that they were proud that President Xi made these vows on behalf of the government. His remarks triggered excitement and have shown the CPC's care and support for women.
Tuohu Tiguli, one of the representatives, expressed her ideas about the summit. "We listened to the reports on TV about the summit several days ago and the work group helped interpret the full speech by President Xi this morning. We all feel excited. The awareness of gender equality has been enhanced again and we feel much happier than before."
Ajiguli, a local farmer, said, "Although we are busy with the harvest now, we are willing to be the first ones to hear President Xi's remarks and disseminate them amongst the others."
Amina, one of the representatives, also expressed that women have to work harder to go out and start their own careers, and President Xi's remarks have given local women confidence.
Gao Peixiang finally stressed that the work group will implement President Xi's ideas in their grass-roots women's work in the future, publicize the state policy of gender equality, and promote the overall development of women from various ethnicities so that women can do their part to promote social development and stability.
Please understand that womenofchina.cn,a non-profit, information-communication website, cannot reach every writer before using articles and images. For copyright issues, please contact us by emailing: website@womenofchina.cn. The articles published and opinions expressed on this website represent the opinions of writers and are not necessarily shared by womenofchina.cn. 
Copyright 2005-2014 All rights reserved. Women's Foreign Language Publications of China.  Email: website@womenofchina.cn