2015-10~12
http://www.thestatesman.com/news/world/brahma-temple-blasts-thai-military-court-indicts-2-uighurs/106187.html

The Statesman: Brahma temple blasts: Thai military court indicts 2 Uighurs
Congress leader Manish Tewari criticised the BJP leadership for evoking a debate on the use of the slogan "Bharat Mata ki Jai" to express one's patriotism.
The finance minister said that Vijay Mallya has not only brought himself a bad name, he has also brought a terrible name to private sector entrepreneurs in the country.
HRD Minister Smriti Irani said she is hopeful that the educational diplomacy which leverages excellence in India as part of diplomacy will take us from strength to strength in times to come.
With Pakistan moving towards tactical nuclear weapons, there is an increasingly higher risk of nuclear theft, a US think-tank report has warned.
Pak on Monday ratified amendment to legally-binding international instrument on safety of nuclear material.
On his maiden visit to China close on the heels of his recent visit to India, Oli held wide-ranging talks with Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and called on President Xi.
Australia reached at the third position in Group 2 while Bangladesh touched the bottom with the loss.
The World Cup winning captain, expressing disappointment at the national team’s loss against India in World T20 clash, said Pakistan team did not do justice with their talent.
New Zealand’s third win in a row has almost certainly assured Suzie Bates’ team a place in the semi-finals even before its last league match against South Africa in Bengaluru on March 26.
Jaitley said RBI is an experienced institution. After all, RBI has no particular interest in keeping rates high.
The US govt funding agency, USAID said Nepal heavily depends on water resources to meet its energy demands as more than 90% of its total electricity generation capacity is hydropower based.
The company on Monday stunned its rivals by launching a cheaper, smaller yet powerful iPhone SE and a game changer 9.7-inch iPad Pro. The products will be available in 100 countries.
The Sufi conference inaugurated by Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Thursday last appears to have been part of a well-planned scheme of the BJP to create confusion among Muslims.
With Obama’s historic visit to Cuba, the US President and his counterpart, Raul Castro, have scripted a watershed chapter in what is often referred to as Pan-American history.
There have been many military intervention by the UN in the second half of the 20th century; running the gamut from large-sized interventions to small-scale ones.
Second phase of odd-even will be implemented from April 15-30.
The BJP leader said his party will expose the govt’s lies.
In letter, Swati Maliwal urged police to take adequate steps.
Naveen Patnaik said over 17 lakh saplings would be planted this year.
The racketeers used to trap and kill wild boar and deer species.
How often do we actually remember the contents of subjects that are taught in school?
Cricket match between India and Pak sees the level of madness raised to an impossible pitch.
There are large parts of Assam that are yet to see any development.
A weak gut is the result of poor dietary diversity.
Dipesh chakrabarty, a professor at the University Of Chicago, recently delivered a lecture on the implications of climate change on human history in Kolkata.
With the Central University of Jammu entering into a tie-up with the only Press Club in the state, students are guaranteed hands-on experience.
Cricket match between India and Pak sees the level of madness raised to an impossible pitch.
The actor says he is still a 'student' in showbiz.
A military court in Thailand on Tuesday charged two ethnic Uighur Chinese men with carrying out a bombing at the hugely popular Erawan Brahma temple here that left 20 people dead and more than 120 injured.
The two suspects - identified as Bilal Mohammad and Mieraili Yusufu - were indicted on 10 charges connected to the blast in August at the temple, one of the most popular tourist attractions in the Thai capital.
The charges include conspiracy to explode bombs and commit premeditated murder, their lawyer Chuchart Kanpai said.
It is not clear what all they have been charged with.
The two men - described as ethnic Uighurs from China's Muslim-majority Xinjiang region - were tried at a military court on an army base here. They were held at an army base since their arrests in late August and early September.
The blast at the temple was one of the most deadly acts of violence in Bangkok in decades.
Police believe Bilal was the person who was seen on CCTV camera footage wearing a yellow T-shirt who sat down on a bench at the outdoor temple, took off a black backpack and then left it behind and walked away.
Bilal was arrested on August 29 with a fake Turkish passport under the name of Adem Karadag from an apartment on the outskirts of Bangkok.
Yusufu was arrested on September 1 near the Thai-Cambodia border, carrying a Chinese passport.
Nationals from China, Hong Kong, the UK, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore were among the foreigners killed in the attack.
The twin blasts, which the government believed was aimed at damaging economy and tourism, occurred in a space of minutes outside the temple dedicated to Lord Brahma.
The temple is located on a main road through Bangkok's commercial hub and is surrounded by three major shopping malls.