2015-10~12
http://www.thetimes.co.uk/tto/news/world/asia/article4619210.ece

China kills 28 ‘terrorists behind colliery attack’ | The Times

Chinese police have killed 28 members of a “terrorist group” after a 56-day 
manhunt for those responsible for a deadly attack on a colliery. 


The operation, in the mainly Muslim Xinjiang region, was the most bloody in 
months. Today’s statement was the first official confirmation of both the 
attack on the mine and the aftermath. 


Xinjiang is home to the Muslim Uighur minority community, which regularly 
complains of discrimination and religious repression. The Chinese government 
blames them for numerous attacks across the country and beyond. 


Radio Free Asia, which is funded by the US government, said recently that the 
Chinese

In Urumqi, the capital of China’s largest but troubled province, banners encouraged ethnic unity but baton-wielding...


Police said seven people have been killed and 50 injured in the explosions in the Guangxi autonomous region, southern...


From the moment he stepped from his chartered plane, Beijing treated Mr Osborne with the respect normally reserved...


Gao Zhisheng, a human rights lawyer and Christian who has been in and out of detention since 2006, criticised western...


Growing evidence suggests the bombing may have been the work of Xinjiang separatists angry about Thailand’s treatment...

A chance to take your friends and family to Twickenham for the key RBS 6 Nations clash
Louisiana is the proud birthplace of jazz, but it’s not resting on its laurels
There is no time like the present to make South Africa your holiday destination of choice
After a low period these beautiful islands are back in business
As thoughts turn to fresh starts and healthier living, put some focus on your eyes in 2016
How cultural resistance to change must be overcome if companies want to move ahead
How to educate employees about protecting their data from hackers
Thinking of setting up a business abroad? Don’t go anywhere without consulting this guide
Speed of European monetary union has left capital markets in the slow lane
New laws to protect women from domestic violence outrage religious conservatives in Pakistan who threaten mass protests and strikes
Jia Jia, a journalist who has 85,000 followers on Twitter, which is banned in China, is suspected of writing a letter asking President Xi to resign
The transfer of the radioactive material is intended to reduce Japan’s massive stockpile of plutonium
Prince Harry has seen the earthquake damage sustained by some of Kathmandu’s historic sites as he was welcomed to the city by five virgins
C2 Grade, Ministry of Defence, Abbey Wood, Bristol and Corsham, £30424 - £35285 (Depending on qualifications ,skills and experience)
Lamborghini Aventador LP 700-4 Roadster Grigio Estoque with nero marrone leather
Aston Martin Vanquish 2+2 volcano red with winter wheat leather
An exciting opportunity to create a unique and modern five bedroom house with traditional features set in 5.83 acres in a beautiful location in Shropshire
Salcombe’s first development of new properties right on the water’s edge for almost twenty years.
Discover the ultimate global address in New York, designed by Foster + Partners
8 day all inclusive tour of Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks from £2290pp
Get off the beaten track with this six night holiday to Samburu & Laikipia with Turquoise
When staying at the 4* db San Antonio Hotel & spa, Malta this summer
4* ski apartments from £384pp in La Rosiere. Ski from the door-step