2015-10~12
http://dailymailnews.com/2015/12/10/afghan-president-chinese-fm-hold-separate-meetings-with-general-raheel/

Afghan President, Chinese FM hold separate meetings with General Raheel
RAWALPINDI: Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Raheel Sharif on Wednesday met Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, who was here to attend the Heart of Asia Conference.
According to Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), General Raheel assured the Afghan president of full support in intelligence sharing, operational coordination and reconciliation process for bringing peace and stability in Afghanistan.
The Afghan president, while emphasising on the need of enhancing bilateral relations between both the countries, vowed to work together to eliminate the common threat of terrorism.
“We are committed to work together with Afghanistan on the basis of mutual interest and respect. We should pursue a strategic relationship that is enduring and enhances the security and concomitant prosperity of both brotherly countries,” the army chief was quoted as saying.
Ghani, on the other hand, acknowledged the successes achieved by Pakistan’s armed forces in war against terrorism.
In his speech at Heart of Asia Conference, the Afghan President had lauded Pakistan’s decision to launch operation against militancy, but said the action had created unintended consequences bringing about the displacement of a significant number of militant groups on Afghan soil.
Earlier in the day, German Defence Minister, Ursula Von der Leyen and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi also met the army chief at GHQ.
The German minister discussed a wide range of issues including defence cooperation, regional security and emerging geo-strategic environment.
Ursula Leyen appreciated the phenomenal successes of Operation Zarb-i-Azb and paid rich tributes to the martyrs of Pakistani security forces.
A smartly turned out contingent of Pakistan Army presented the guard of honour to the visiting dignitary on their arrival.
The Chinese minister, Wang Yi appreciated progress of an effective, across the board anti-terror operation, Operation Zarb-i-Azb by Pakistan Army which helped eliminate ETIM (East Turkestan Islamic Movement) just as it eliminated elements of all other terrorist groups based in the area.
Back in October, Defence Minister Khawaja Asif also claimed that Pakistan has eliminated all members of the Uighur militant group the ETIM from its territory.
China blames ETIM for carrying out attacks in its far western region of Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people, although many foreign experts doubt the group’s existence in a cohesive group.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Special coverage on China's Two Party Sessions by The Daily Mail - People's Daily