2015-10~12
http://www.economist.com/news/china/21678007-government-xinjiang-trying-limit-muslim-births-remote-control

Remote control | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
BIRTH restrictions imposed on China’s ethnic minorities have always been lighter than those on the Han majority. Han Chinese are only now being granted the right to have two children; most minorities living in urban areas have long enjoyed it. Non-Hans living in the countryside are allowed to have three, and sometimes more. But although family-planning rules are now being relaxed in China, in the far-western region of Xinjiang, where ethnic Uighurs make up 50% of the population, the government is tightening controls.   
In 1983 Uighurs—never entirely happy with rule by a Han-dominated Communist Party based in far-distant Beijing—rioted when officials introduced the current limits. Some of them saw the restrictions as an affront to Islam. As a result, officials in some areas applied them more flexibly, even allowing couples in some far-flung places to have four or five children. Uighurs have fewer children than they used to, but since 2010 the birth rate has been rising again. In mainly Uighur Kashgar, a prefecture which borders on Pakistan, Afghanistan and Central Asia, it is four times the national average.
Hans, who feel targeted by rising separatist militancy among Uighurs, worry that they may become outnumbered. So the government is relaxing residency restrictions to attract more Han immigrants. Since 2012 all Hans in southern Xinjiang—a hotbed of separatism—have been allowed to have two children. The government is also trying to curb Uighur births.
Last year Xinjiang’s party chief said it was necessary to lower fertility and implement a family planning policy “equal for all ethnic groups”, as part of efforts to fight terrorism. Early this year another senior official said southern Xinjiang had “worryingly high birth rates”. This year, southern Xinjiang doubled payouts to Uighur couples who have fewer than their quota to 6,000 yuan ($950). Each parent also receives 1,800 yuan a year for life.
In Yining, a city in north-western Xinjiang, which four years ago became the first part of Xinjiang to ban the wearing of face-covering veils in public, a local newspaper reported in March that the government there was cracking down on unauthorised births as part of a battle against “extremism”. In June a township in Yining posted news of a similar campaign against “illegal births”. The government may have made some progress with its assault on large families. Though birth rates in Xinjiang as a whole are rising, those in Yining have been falling for the past three years.
Angela Merkel faces her most serious political challenge yet. But Europe needs her more than ever
The leaders of Taiwan and China have agreed to meet for the first time. It is too early to celebrate
At last, the ascendant stars of the Republican Party are serious and electable. They may even be...
To beat the scourge of heroin, governments should deal the drug themselves
China has replaced its “one-child policy” with a two-child one. It should stop dictating family...
After ten years in power, Angela Merkel is being forged anew in the refugee crisis
A year out from the election, the GOP looks simultaneously chaotic and enormously successful
The law’s merits and flaws become clearer as it enters its third year
The capital of disruption fears it may be experiencing too much
Most states will comply with the new rules on mitigating carbon emissions
If Hillary Clinton wins she will face a hostile Congress. This reality is shaping her pitch
Aboriginals of the Arctic share a language, but not a script
The leaders of China and Taiwan are to meet, for the first time in their history
No more Mr Nasty Guy? China tries to be nice
A series of murders puts writers and bloggers on edge
A new prime minister nips colonial nostalgia in the bud
The ugliness of Indian politics threatens to scupper Narendra Modi’s grand visions
A small town offers a glimpse of what a two-child China might look like
Preparations are under way for an orgy of online spending
There is a long road ahead for Africa to emulate East Asia
Why Nigeria's largest city is even less navigable than usual
Geologists in Israel think they have found oil—in very tricky territory
The trusty defence minister is the only person to serve in every government since the fall of the...
Sergei Shoigu’s childhood home is not your average Russian region
The Holy See cracks down on leaks about its scandalous finances
Turkey’s government escalated its conflict with the Kurds, then ran on promises of security. It...
France has less and less influence in the EU, and fears to use what it still has
Some cuts to green-power subsidies are sensible. But mixed messages risk deterring much-needed...
David Cameron’s hopes that MPs will authorise air strikes on Syria are fading
As fees rise, fewer parents beyond the capital are choosing to go private
Britain’s upcoming “renegotiation” of its EU membership targets a straw man
The world’s biggest climatic weather phenomenon is easier to predict than many calamities. But it...
El Niño leaves much of South-East Asia choking in smog
A tech talent-spotter has come to dominate Silicon Valley’s startup scene
A Chinese planemaker will find it hard to break the Airbus-Boeing duopoly
A big merger shows where the money is heading in the industry
Big businesses fail to make the most of employees with foreign experience
Misleading numbers and a confused mission, the hallmarks of troubled financial firms, dog one of...
The IMF debates whether to include China’s currency in its reserves
House prices in Sweden continue to soar, to regulators’ despair
Despite Shinzo Abe’s best efforts, Japan’s economic future will be a leap into the unknown
A souped-up simulator could help extend people’s driving careers, while getting the truly...
After more than 30 years of research, a new sort of rocket engine starts to sizzle
A hitherto-obscure piece of physics may be the secret to ocean power generation
A glamorous raiment sometimes helps a female bird as much as it helps a male
If you think Frank Stella’s work is out of date, think again
Günter Schabowski, the man who accidentally opened the Berlin Wall, died on November 1st, aged 86
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more