2015-10~12
http://www.informationclearinghouse.info/article43290.htm

The Caliph at the Gates of Vienna:  Information Clearing House - ICH
Westphalians, we got a problem. None of 
 this makes any sense if Iran is not at the table discussing a 
 solution for the Syrian tragedy. Moscow knew it from the start. 
 Washington — reluctantly — had to admit the obvious. But the problem 
 was never Iran. The problem is the ideological matrix of goons who 
 metastasize into Caliphs: Saudi Arabia.
Back — inevitably — to surrealism. Saudi Foreign 
 Minister Adel al-Jubeir stated, “The view of our partners … was that 
 we should test the intentions of the Iranians and the Russians in 
 arriving at a political solution in Syria, which we all prefer.”
Translation: “Our partners” means “His Masters’ 
 Voice,” Washington; and the beheading-addicted oil hacienda does not 
 “prefer” a political solution; they want regime change and a House 
 of Saud satrapy.
Egypt, Iraq, Lebanon, the EU, France and even 
 Qatar — whose mini-emir wanted to launch his own military campaign 
 for regime change before someone told him to shut up — are keeping 
 company to Iran in Vienna, alongside the US, Russia, Turkey and the 
 House of Saud.
Talk about parallel lives. One thing is a polite 
 altercation inside a gilded Vienna palace. The shifting military 
 sands across a Sykes-Picot-in-shambles “Syraq” tell a very different 
 story.
The ideal solution is tempting; Russia dispatches 
 the Spetsnaz and some extra commandos; beheads the ISIS/ISIL/Daesh 
 goons from a C4i point of view; surrounds them; and wipes them out.
Yet it won’t happen, as long as Sultan Erdogan in 
 Turkey, petrodollar GCC minions and the CIA persist to “support” 
 and/or weaponize assorted Salafi-jihadi goons, “moderate” or 
 otherwise.
The fake “Caliphate” will be a very tough nut to 
 crack because they don’t – and won’t – care about their own mounting 
 casualties. The “4+1” alliance – Russia, Syria, Iran, Iraq plus 
 Hezbollah – already knows it, and has already experienced trouble in 
 their ranks.
Hezbollah took casualties. So did Iran’s Quds 
 Force – as in reliable mid-level commanders. Iran has around 1,500 
 fighters on the ground – many of them Afghans – on the “4+1” side. 
 On the opposite side we have the House of Saud funneling a lot of 
 cash and TOW anti-tank missiles to the Army of Conquest, which is 
 nothing but an al-Qaeda-led coalition of the willing displaying 
 relatively overlapping agendas (first regime change, then Caliphate 
 or Muslim Brotherhood reign).
There’s no evidence – yet – that ISIS/ISIL/Daesh 
 has been depleted of the bulk of their shoulder-fired anti-aircraft 
 plus anti-tank guided missiles.
So while Vienna talks, what is ISIS/ISIL/Daesh 
 really up to?
They are about to choose between two different 
 strategies.
Arguably the ISIS/ISIL/Daesh command is leaning 
 towards option 2 – because of the Jihad Inc. component. At least 
 2,000 fake “Caliphate” goons – most of them from 
 Chechnya, Turkey, Central Asia and Xinjiang – were killed in Kobani, 
 which, unlike Raqqa, had no strategic value. The Jihad Inc. gang now 
 wants to expand all the way to Central Asia, Xinjiang, Russia and, 
 if they manage to find an opening, Europe and the US.
Option 2 also carries the added benefit, for 
 fighting purposes, of extra support for “moderate jihadis” (not 
 “rebels”), which means more interaction with Ahrar al-Sham, Liwa al-Tawhid, 
 a few Army of Conquest factions, the Islamic Front and a bunch of 
 Turkmen Salafi groups. None of these, by the way, are “moderate 
 rebels”.
All these outfits would perfect mesh into an ISIS/ISIL/Daesh 
 “expanding frontline” strategy, defended, among others, by one 
 Muslim Shishani, Chechen commander of the Jund al-Sham, which is 
 currently fighting around Latakia.
Shishani, significantly, told al-Jazeera Turk, 
 “Fronts [such] as Raqqa and Aleppo will have no significance in a 
 ground war against the Russians. The real war will be on the 
 Tartus-Latakia front line. Jihad must be moved to that area.”
So imagine all of these outfits coalescing on an 
 internal jihad plus global jihad platform, and still flush with 
 cash. It’s no secret that Russian intel is alarmed by the high 
 number of Chechens in the fake “Caliphate” ranks, not to mention 
 Chinese intel regarding the Uyghurs. These may find very hard to 
 return to Xinjiang; but the Chechens will be back in the Caucasus. 
 That’s the famous “Aleppo is 900 km away from Grozny” syndrome.
To add to the royal mess, FSB director Alexander 
 Bortnikov has already warned about a concentration of Taliban – many 
 of whom pledged allegiance to the fake “Caliphate” — at 
 Afghanistan’s northern borders with Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. For 
 Putin and the Russian intel apparatus, the situation in Afghanistan 
 is “close to critical”. A jihad spillover across Central Asia is all 
 but certain.
The bottom line, thus, is stark. Move over, 
 al-Qaeda; ISIS/ISIL/Daesh is using the “4+1” offensive to forge its 
 identity as the leader of a Global Jihad. Saudi imams anyway have 
 already declared jihad against Russia. And the decrepit Al-Azhar in 
 Cairo is about to do the same thing.
There’s no evidence the Obama administration is 
 about to admit all “moderate rebels” are, after all, jihadis. The 
 ISIS/ISIL/Daesh command, anyway, is waiting; were that to happen – 
 as in Washington sharing Moscow’s analysis – all outfits will switch 
 to Global Jihad mode, led by the fake “Caliphate.”
It’s already murky enough as it stands. The mix of 
 Syrian/Iranian ground intel plus the Russian air campaign have to 
 make sure not only that ISIS/ISIL/Daesh does not have the hardware 
 nor the manpower to defend Raqqa; they also need to cut off all 
 their communication/supply lines with those jihadis who are fighting 
 the “4+1” in western Syria.
Even under attack by the Russian Air Force, which 
 forced a large number of goons and their families to flee Syria for 
 the Western Iraq desert, ISIS/ISIL/Daesh managed to make progress in 
 southern Aleppo, infiltrating al-Safira, and keeping control of at 
 least 10 checkpoints along the crucial supply line that runs from 
 Hama, through Salamiyeh, Ithriyah and Khanaser, all the way to 
 Aleppo. The SAA simply cannot afford to lose this corridor; now 
 that’s priority number one. Hundreds of thousands of Aleppo 
 civilians, meanwhile, are trying to survive as de facto hostages.
It’s crucial to check out the Iranian game on the 
 ground. The best source so far has been the deputy commander of the 
 Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC), Brig. Gen. Husayn Salami, 
 who talked extensively to the Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran 
 Network 2.
Salami – that’s the IRGC speaking – frames Syria 
 as the “focal point of strategic efforts made by an international 
 coalition” to implement a “destructive political scheme in the 
 Islamic world.” By “international coalition” he means NATO plus the 
 Saudis. Iran’s role is “guaranteeing the political, psychological, 
 economic and military stability of the Syrian system.”
He frames Iran’s role on four levels. “On a 
 strategic level, we support the Syrian government, nation and army 
 politically and psychologically. As advisors, we transfer our war 
 experiences to top commanders in the Syrian army. Actually, we are 
 helping them modernize and rebuild the structure of the Syrian army 
 … When it comes to the operational level, we are helping brigade 
 commanders for example … This is why a number of our commanders are 
 there and are helping in planning and devising operational 
 strategies.” Iran also helps at a tactical and technical (logistic) 
 level.
And here’s something absolutely key – as well as 
 anathema for the House of Saud; “Our national security is 
 intertwined with the security of important parts of the Islamic 
 world, the national security of Syria. This is the main philosophy 
 behind our presence [in Syria].” The nuance that US Think Tankland 
 is incapable of spotting is this doesn’t have anything to do with 
 keeping Assad in power forever, as Iranian diplomats are now saying 
 on the record.
Salami also stressed Russia went into Syria 
 because otherwise it would have to fight jihad at home (that’s 
 exactly what the Chechens at ISIS/ISIL/Daesh want). Putin’s Syria 
 strategy, by the way, has been fully supported by the speaker of the 
 Iranian parliament, Ali Larijani, who was a key guest at the Valdai 
 summit last week.
Faced with the Russian/Iranian strategy, what is 
 the Empire of Chaos to do?
Murk the already murky sands, what else? That 
 sorry lot that passes for Obama’s “senior national security 
 advisers” has recommended positioning US Special Forces closer to 
 ISIS/ISIL/Daesh in Syria.
This special “guidance” is supposed to help the 
 coalition known as Democratic Forces of Syria – which is led by the 
 YPG Kurds – to take Raqqa. But that does not necessarily mean US 
 Special Forces will be fighting alongside the “4+1” towards the same 
 objective. After all, we’re always thrown back deep into Geopolitics 
 Surrealistan – where the US-led Coalition of the Dodgy Opportunists 
 (CDO) totally ignores what the “4+1” are doing. And don’t forget 
 intra-coalition hatred — as in Ankara abhorring the US insistence on 
 working with Syrian Kurds.
As for Iraq, the Obama administration and the 
 Pentagon now barely qualify as the butt end of running jokes. Sunnis 
 in Anbar province are furious that the mightiest satellite 
 surveillance system in history simply failed to register ISIS/ISIL/Daesh’s 
 advances, from Tikrit to Ramadi and environs.
To add a final insult to (repeated) injuries – as 
 in the “4+1” intel center in Baghdad, excluding the US, plus the 
 authorization for Russia to bomb fake “Caliphate” convoys trying to 
 cross from the Syrian desert – Baghdad and the EU have just agreed 
 to set up yet another intel center to exchange data on ISIS/ISIL/Daesh. 
 The bottom line is the Obama administration is absolutely terrified 
 that the EU is inclined to support the Russian campaign – 
 increasingly regarding the CDO for what it is; a joke.
The near future offers even more dangerous 
 surrealist instances; think of the Obama administration helping 
 Shi’ite militias to take Mosul in Iraq back from ISIS/ISIL/Daesh, 
 and at the same time helping Kurds in Syria to take back Raqqa, an 
 Arab city. All hell is bound to break loose between Sunnis across 
 “Syraq” and Americans – and ISIS/ISIL/Daesh will mightily profit 
 from it.
As it stands, there’s not going to be a frontal 
 attack on Aleppo by the SAA and Iran/Hezbollah, covered by the 
 Russian Air Force; instead, the “4+1” strategy will be to disrupt to 
 the max the logistical supply routes to all Salafi-jihadi outfits, 
 which implies trying to cut off the flux of cash and weapons 
 smuggled via Turkey.
The Obama administration is essentially fighting — 
 sort of — ISIS/ISIL/Daesh in Iraq, where Washington lost a 
 multi-trillion dollar war. Team Obama never bothered to fight the 
 fake “Caliphate” in Syria — because they were contributing to the 
 “Assad must go” agenda.
Sultan Erdogan – with Ankara at the table in 
 Vienna – is still allowed to have a free-for-all border out of which 
 ISIS/ISIL/Daesh profits handsomely. And the paranoid, Shi’ite-hating 
 House of Saud – with Riyadh at the table in Vienna – is still 
 allowed to shower all manner of Salafi-jihadi goons with all manner 
 of weapons. This is what passes for Obama’s policy in Syria, as the 
 Caliph’s roaring laughter can be heard all the way to Vienna.
Copyright 2015 Asia Times Holdings Limited, a duly 
 registered Hong Kong company

Click for


Spanish,
 

German,
 

Dutch,
 

Danish,
 

French, 
 translation- Note- 
Translation may take a 
 moment to load.


What's your response? 
 -  
Scroll down to add / read comments  

In accordance
 with Title 17 U.S.C. Section 107, this material
 is distributed without profit to those who have
 expressed a prior interest in receiving the
 included information for research and educational
 purposes. Information Clearing House has no
 affiliation whatsoever with the originator of
 this article nor is Information ClearingHouse
 endorsed or sponsored by the originator.)