2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/10/24/martin-shkreli-trolled-by-rival-drug-company/

Martin Shkreli Trolled By Rival Drug Company | Funs.co
A rival drug company has severely undercut Martin Shrkeli’s position on the pricing of the drug Daraprim. Shkreli made recent news by charging $750 per pill of the drug. Now Imprimis Pharmaceuticals says that they will charge only $1 a pill and are expecting to make a lot of profit at that price. Cenk Uygur, Jimmy Dore (The Jimmy Dore Show), Lissette Padilla, and Kelly Carlin hosts of The Young Turks discuss.
Do you think this will hurt Shkreli’s business or image? Will Daraprim remain profitable at $1 a pill? Let us know in the comments below.
“Almost a month after word got out that drug-company CEO Martin Shkreli had jacked up the price of a critical drug by more than 5,000%, a different kind of pharma company has stepped up to provide a cheaper alternative.
Imprimis Pharmaceuticals, a compounding pharmaceutical company, announced Thursday that it is now providing a customizable formulation to compete with Daraprim, a drug used to treat a parasitic infection called toxoplasmosis in people with compromised immune systems.
Shkreli jacked up the cost of Daraprim from $13.50 to $750 a pill seemingly overnight.”
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.