2015-10~12
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/region-disturbed-ethnic-tensions-china-keeps-tight-lid-massacre

In a region disturbed by ethnic tensions, China keeps tight lid on a massacre | TODAYonline
BAICHENG (China) — Armed with only knives, the assailants struck at the coal mine in the dead of night, first killing the security guards and then setting upon the miners as they slept in their dormitory beds. Before the Sept 18 rampage was over, more than 50 people were dead, at least five of them police officers, and dozens more had been wounded, according to victims’ relatives and residents.
Most of the victims were Han Chinese who had been lured to this desolate corner of the far west Xinjiang region by the prospect of steady work and decent pay.
The wanted posters displayed later in Baicheng suggest the attackers were ethnic Uighurs, all of whom apparently escaped into the craggy foothills of the Tianshan Mountains, not far from China’s border with Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan.
Even as Baicheng County remains in a state of siege, with an enormous manhunt underway, the Chinese news media has yet to report on the massacre, and local officials, when asked about it, have denied that it even took place.
But the attack on the Sogan coal mine appears to be one of the deadliest acts of violence in Xinjiang in recent years, underscoring the challenges that Beijing faces as it tries to maintain order in a region nearly as large as Alaska.
Details of the massacre were first published last month by Radio Free Asia, a news service financed by the US government and blocked by the Chinese government.
The coal mine attack occurred during national celebrations to mark the 60th anniversary of the establishment of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, and government officials here have been trying to keep news of the killings from seeping beyond the constellation of coal mines and dusky towns that fleck rural Baicheng County.
Last week, the county seat was bristling with heavily armed police officers and was subject to a nighttime curfew. At main intersections, officers huddled behind sandbags; at Baicheng County Hospital, they guarded the rooms of the half-dozen injured mine workers yet to be discharged.
A middle school in nearby Tirek Township has been converted into a staging area, and residents say that a helicopter and drones have been flying over the deeply carved ravines that are thought to be sheltering the killers.
Despite the siege atmosphere, many Baicheng residents said they knew little about what had happened at the coal mine. “We don’t know anything, and we feel safer if it stays that way,” the desk clerk of a local hotel said with a shrug and a smile.