2015-10~12
http://controversialtimes.com/news/while-obama-talks-gun-control-50-people-killed-50-injured-in-china-knife-attack/

While Obama Talks Gun Control – 50+ People Killed, 50+ Injured in China Knife Attack
As the US recovers from a recent mass shooting in Oregon that left 9 victims dead, President Obama has renewed calls for gun control.
Another massacre occurred days before the Oregon mass murder in China that left at least 50 people dead, including several police officers, according to several sources. The attackers in that incident did not use firearms though, they were armed only with knives.
The death toll in a knife attack orchestrated by alleged “separatists” at a coal mine in northwestern China’s troubled Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region has climbed to at least 50 people—including five police officers—with as many as 50 injured, according to local security officials who say nine suspects are on the run.
The attack occurred on Sept. 18, when a group of knife-wielding suspects set upon security guards at the gate of the Sogan Colliery in Aksu (in Chinese, Akesu) prefecture’s Bay (Baicheng) county, before targeting the mine owner’s residence and a dormitory for workers.
When police officers arrived at the mine in Terek township to control the situation, the attackers rammed their vehicles using trucks loaded down with coal, sources said.
Three sources, including a ruling Communist Party cadre from a local township government, told RFA’s Uyghur Service in recent days that at least 50 people were killed and as many as 50 injured in the attack—with most casualties suffered by the mine’s largely majority Han Chinese workers.
Gun rights supporters point out the fact that violent crimes do not stop just because guns are more highly regulated.
Reagan enjoys all things political. After realizing that neither of the current mainstream political parties encompass his beliefs he awaits the emergence of a true small government party. Good scotch, good cigars, mechanical watches, and SEC football round out his interests.