2015-10~12
https://www.tytnetwork.com/2015/12/18/republicans-compare-childlike-isis-strategies/

Republicans Compare Childlike ISIS Strategies - TYT Network
In The Young Turks on YouTube by Aaron WysockiDecember 18, 20151 Comment
During the Republican debate this week they talked a lot about national security and terrorism. Their voiced some of the stupidest plans of all time for dealing with these issues. Both Ben Carson and Ted Cruz said the key to beating ISIS was saying the words, “radical Islamic terrorist.” Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) repeatedly insisted at Tuesday night’s GOP presidential debate that every Republican candidate on stage would keep the country safer than Hillary Clinton — including, apparently, the odious national embarrassment that is Donald Trump.
Yet those very same presidential candidates had essentially two kinds of suggestions for how to change course in the Middle East: magic-button solutions and things Clinton wants to do.
Magic-button solutions make it seem as though there is some kind of magic button in the Oval Office that would quickly fix complex, lingering problems — President Obama just refuses to press it, either because he’s too stupid or because he really wants the United States to fail.
For example, Cruz insisted that we should use “overwhelming air power to utterly and completely destroy ISIS,” avoiding civilian casualties by bombing only “where ISIS is.” If only the Pentagon had thought of that!
Similarly, Trump insisted that we needed to stop terrorists from using “our Internet,” explaining that “we should be using our brilliant people, our most brilliant minds to figure a way that ISIS cannot use the Internet.” Also, “we should be able to penetrate the Internet and find out exactly where ISIS is and everything about ISIS,” he added. Maybe we even need some kind of National Security Agency devoted to surveilling and disrupting terrorist Internet use!”*
Toys R Us ads are way too loud. I was scared out of a dead sleep my the volume differential. I thought we should do air strikes to support the Iraqi army so they could retake their land. But since they seems to be sitting this one out I say we go home. I have a hunch that countries in the region will start fighting ISIS as soon as we aren’t there to do it for them.