2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/10/14/planned-parenthood-stops-all-reimbursement-for-fetal-tissue-donations/

Planned Parenthood Stops All Reimbursement for Fetal Tissue Donations | Funs.co
Planned Parenthood has decided to stop taking money for fetal tissue donations. While they’ve never profited from fetal tissue donations (though the smear campaign against them has convinced many otherwise), the only type of money they’ve ever received for fetal donations was to cover transportation costs. Nonetheless, the group has decided to stop taking reimbursement for even these costs. Cenk Uygur and Ana Kasparian (The Point), hosts of the The Young Turks, break it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“Planned Parenthood announced Tuesday that it will no longer accept any reimbursement for the fetal tissue it supplies to medical researchers, a move to distance itself from recent political attacks.
In a letter to the director of the National Institutes of Health, Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards wrote that though reimbursement for procuring fetal tissue for research purposes is legal, she intends to “completely debunk the disingenuous argument that our opponents have been using—and to reveal the true political purpose of these attacks.””*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.