2015-10~12
http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/editorial/20-Oct-2015/placating-china

Placating China  
Pakistani officials are always keen to emphasise the status of China as Pakistan’s “all weather friend”, and this relationship has taken on an even greater significance in recent times as both countries are trying to negotiate their place in a rapidly changing world. China wants to secure its position as an emerging superpower, while Pakistan is playing its part in supporting China so it can benefit in economic and military terms and guard itself against the flakiness of its relations with the US. With the much-hyped development megaproject of the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) in its infancy and an arms deal where China would sell Pakistan eight submarines set to take place, it is clear that the China-Pakistan relationship is as important to Chinese economic and strategic ambitions as it is to Pakistan’s developmental goals. Amidst the rosy narrative of camaraderie, however, it seems that China has concerns about Pakistan’s lackadaisical and contradictory approach towards Islamist militants present on its territory, and to address those silently communicated worries, Pakistan’s Defence Minister Khawaja Asif is in Beijing making the right noises. The issue of contention for the Chinese is the presence of members of the Uighur militant group East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) in the tribal belt of Pakistan. Khawaja Asif has assured his Chinese counterparts that the “small number” of ETIM militants present in Pakistan has been decidedly dealt with as part of Operation Zarb-e-Azb and they are now thought to be either eliminated “or gone”.
The issue of Uighur separatism is multifaceted and complicated. The frontier province of Xinjiang was long dominated by the Uighur population, who are Muslim and identify with the culture and customs of Central Asia. However, over the years they have started to be outnumbered by Han Chinese who are migrating to the developing province and are considered in the local imagination to be benefiting disproportionately while the locals are disenfranchised. So the Uighur movement is rooted in perceived economic, cultural and religious oppression. Most experts however consider the militant side of the movement represented by ETIM to be small in scale and lacking in cohesion. Nevertheless, ETIM’s jihadist and extremist tendencies are very real and in line with other groups of Islamist persuasion. As Pakistan played a leading role in the 1980s in fostering and training jihadist groups from around the globe to fight in Afghanistan, the continued presence of Uighur militants within its borders is hardly shocking. While it is hard to verify Asif’s claims due to restricted media access in the tribal belt, it is crucial that the spirit of his statement is followed through. Pakistan cannot persist with the policy of having dual policies towards militants. All Islamist networks therefore must be eliminated. It is also doubly important to ensure that no grievances and resentments develop between the two allied countries as soiling the spirit of friendship would have negative implications for Pakistan. *

 Finally, government has diverted its attention to the actual area of concern. It has announced that ...

 The latest round of rallies held by the Pakistan People’s Party in protest over the ...

 It will be no exaggeration to suggest that the decade-long Soviet-Afghan war, which started in ...