2015-10~12
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2015/11/16/after-paris-attack-china-calls-for-support-in-fighting-terror/

After Paris Attack, China Calls for Support in Fighting Terror - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
(This post has been updated with comments from China’s foreign ministry spokesman.)
China’s foreign minister on Sunday sought international support for Beijing’s fight against a separatist movement in the restive Xinjiang region and backed calls for a united global front against terrorism after deadly attacks last week in Paris.
Speaking at the G-20 summit in Turkey, Wang Yi renewed Beijing’s longstanding criticism of the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a group it blames for waging a violent separatist campaign in Xinjiang and, increasingly, beyond. The Chinese border region is home to the Turkic-speaking and mainly Muslim Uighur ethnic group.
“China is also a victim of terrorism,” the official Xinhua News Agency on Monday quoted Mr. Wang as saying at a luncheon with fellow foreign ministers. “Cracking down on the ‘East Turkestan’ terrorist forces, as represented by the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, should become an important component of international counterterrorism.”
Beijing has long accused the ETIM of perpetrating terrorist attacks in China and having links to foreign terrorist organizations including al Qaeda. While the United Nations and the U.S. have designated ETIM as a terrorist group, some security experts doubt that the movement is as cohesive and organized as Beijing alleges.
China has faced a spate of violent attacks in Xinjiang and elsewhere in recent years, much of it blamed by Beijing on Uighur separatists. Chinese officials have also lobbied for international cooperation in efforts to tackle what it calls a growing exodus of Uighurs who seek refuge in Turkey, receive training as militants in places like Pakistan and Afghanistan, or join the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq. Beijing says these Uighurs could return to launch fresh attacks in China or recruit others via the Internet.
Uighur groups and human-rights advocates accuse Beijing of exaggerating the threat posed by fleeing Uighurs, and blame China’s ethnic policies for stoking unrest in Xinjiang. These include restrictions on Uighurs’ religious and cultural freedom and an influx of non-Uighur migrants whom locals say get preferential access to jobs, education and public services. Beijing denies any discrimination and maintains that its policies have brought stability and prosperity to the region.
In his Sunday comments, Mr. Wang also condemned the Paris attacks and called on the United Nations to play a leading role in forming a “united front” against terrorism, according to Xinhua.
Beijing, for its part, has provided other countries with “specific, clear evidence” about the damage allegedly wreaked by Xinjiang separatists, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said Monday, without elaborating on what information China provided, and to whom.
The move will help the international community “understand China’s security concerns and designate the fight against East Turkestan forces as part and parcel of the international anti-terrorism campaign,” Mr. Hong told reporters at a regular news briefing.
–Chun Han Wong, with contributions from Charles Hutzler. Follow them on Twitter @ByChunHan and @charleshutzler.
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

Those human rights lawyer terrorists will be the downfall of China yet.
Hk is also China's "internal affairs", but you keep on tying to get other countries involved in that...
cina's so-called terrorist incidents were all its "internal affairs." cina should not ask other countries to work with it to crush its domestic rebels!
No matter how fair a Human made rule is,it will have a punishing part for it faces human beings having good and evil natures for human beings brain comparing functions.
Fairs rules including freedom of speech are for all including political parties unless you aim and crush fair rules where you are going to expand power and reign,this is where the punishing part should start to work,remember?
The armed ccp aimed and crushes fair rules including open voting,freedom of speech,independent press,independent judicial system,then you are nice and fair to the ccp?that ain't fair at all but aims and crushes fair rules where the ccp is going to expand power and reign together.
Fair and nice to the fair rules crushers?
Ain't fair rules founder level but enemies in disguising in long term.
So called good one,pure party,God authoritarian systems?
Can't eradicate human beings evil natures,protecting the authoritarian system in which human beings evil actions get developed in long term even in human made rules level,aiming and crushing democratic system in which people can express their supporting or opposing choices peacefully including changing political parties,peaceful ways of expressing get aimed and crushed,anti authoritarian systems are self defending,the uprising of people is collective self defending in front of human beings evil natures.
In democratic systems?
With peaceful ways to express supporting or opposing ways still violent that is terrorism,remember?
Most human beings?
Ain't the physical world rules finders level but accept the physical world and human made rules in open comparing environments in long term,most human beings have to bear the choices of most ones,most ones evil natures ain't want to face others evil natures,in democratic systems with open comparing environments most ones have motive to rectify the wrong choices in long term.
Human beings of all races and countries have good and evil natures for most ones brain comparing functions,human made human rights get developed or crushed in human made opposite side democratic or authoritarian systems in long term,democratic system is most ones taking the responsibility of their choices in long term.
The stronger?
Ain't butchers but sciences ones for the human race,but even sciences need open comparing environments needing most ones supportings in front of human beings evil natures in long term.
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
