2015-10~12
http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/958916.shtml

Arrest distant worry for Chinese reporters - Global Times
The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists issued its annual report Tuesday, listing China as the leading jailer of journalists. According to the report, as of December 1, globally 199 journalists are behind bars, of which 49 are Chinese. This is the highest number of jailed journalists in a single country since the statistics were first released in 1990.The report cited the case of Wang Xiaolu, a reporter for the Beijing-based business magazine Caijing, and claimed that China's attempt to block criticism has expanded to the US. It said that three brothers of a Uyghur journalist who works for Radio Free Asia were also imprisoned in China.It seems that there is only one goal of this illogical list - highlighting China's "political autocratic regime."We don't know if there are indeed 49 journalists in jail in China. If this leaves a strong impression that journalists are arrested without proper reasons, and that this worries the whole media industry, then that is obviously an exaggeration.If a journalist is arrested, it would normally become sensational news in China. The excuse for the arrest will be readily questioned in the opinion field from the get go, and a high price will be paid if a journalist is wrongly detained. Supervising the opinion field is a painstaking exploration and practice in China. But the system does not include arresting disobedient journalists. A reporter might be criticized, need to write a self-criticism, or receive an administrative punishment. Yet few in the field would worry about being detained if they make a blunder. There are indeed a few individuals caught up in lawsuits, but it is perhaps normal in the big society of China. For example, in many recent economic crimes, a number of officials, entrepreneurs, and a very few journalists were involved. Those misdeeds are blamed on their personal issues, which are not related to their career.The definition of a journalist is different in each country. The West tends to use the term "citizen journalist" to describe those who occasionally post online or provide stories to the media in developing countries when needed. Statistics from these Western advocates for journalists are therefore not reliable. In the meantime, no matter in which society, journalists also need to abide by the law. They are pioneers of public opinion of China's reform and opening up. Their careers are beset with hardships. They bear responsibility to society, while sticking to their personal morals and self-esteem. When it comes to abiding by the rule of law, no one is exceptional.