2015-10~12
http://www.memri.org/report/en/0/0/0/0/0/0/8920.htm

Jihad and Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM) Weekend Summary
The following are some of this week's reports from the
MEMRI Jihad and Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM) Project, which translates and
analyzes content from sources monitored around the clock, among them the most
important jihadi websites and blogs. (To view these reports in full, you must be
a paying member of the JTTM; for membership information, send an email to [email protected] with "Membership" in the subject line.)
Note
to media and government: For a full copy of these reports, send an email with
the title of the report in the subject line to [email protected]. Please include your name, title, and organization in your
email.
EXCLUSIVE:
In Radio Speech, ISIS's Khorasan Governor Vows To Liberate Muslim-Ruled Regions
From Spain To Xinjiang, Says: 'O Democrats, Infidel Leaders And Secular People,
The Law You Are Worshiping Is Our Enemy'
In a Pashtu-language audio statement broadcast on the
"Voice of the Caliphate" radio station, the Islamic State's Governor
for Khorasan, Hafiz Saeed Khan Orakzai, has vowed to continue jihad until
Muslim-ruled regions from Spain to East Turkistan (Xinjiang) are liberated.
The Khorasan chapter of the Islamic State (ISIS) launched
the propaganda FM radio station in eastern Afghanistan a few weeks ago. The
channel is also locally known as Khilafat Radio. The radio has two hours of
Pashtu-language broadcasts – from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. local time. Besides
Nangarhar province, it can also be heard in parts of neighboring Kunar province
as well as in Pakistan's bordering tribal districts of Bajaur and Mohmand.
EXCLUSIVE:
ISIS Khorasan Video Shows Its First-Ever Suicide Attack And Execution Of Three
Men In Afghanistan
The Islamic State's Khorasan chapter has released a short
video showing their fighters overrunning an Afghan security forces outpost,
carrying out their first-ever suicide attack in Afghanistan, and executing
three men.
The video, which is 12:12 long and titled "Maqbaratul
Murtadeen-1" (the Graveyard for Apostates-1), was produced by the Khorasan
Media Office of the Islamic State and posted online, including on affiliated
Twitter accounts and websites. Unlike most of the jihadist videos, this video features
no voiceover except a brief audio clip of an unknown cleric speaking Arabic.
Pashtu and Arabic subtitles, however, can be seen on the screen depicting each
event shown in the video.
EXCLSUIVE:
Following Death Of Senior Cleric, AQAP Urges AQIM To Continue Attacks On France,
U.S.
On December 27, 2015, Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
(AQAP) released an audio message by one of its senior officials, Ibrahim
Al-Qusi. In the audio recording Al-Qusi offered AQAP's condolences to its
sister group, Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), upon the death of the
latter's shari'a committee head, Abu Hassan Al-Bulaidi. He praised AQIM's
attacks on Western targets and vowed that jihad against America and France
would continue.
"From our front of the Arabian Peninsula, we offer our
condolences to our brothers the mujahideen in the Islamic Maghreb for the death
of the sheikh Abu Al-Hassan Al-Bulaidi, may Allah have mercy on him, the head
of the shari'a committee... while he was waging jihad against the apostates,
France's collaborators in Algeria..." Al-Qusi praised Al-Bulaidi's lengthy
path in jihad, his religious learning and teaching.  
EXCLUSIVE:
French ISIS Operative Charaffe Al-Mouadan, Killed By Coalition, Had Been
Actively Recruiting Online Since 2013
The following report is a complimentary offering from MEMRI's Jihad and
Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM). For JTTM subscription information, click here.
On December 30, 2015, an Operation Inherent Resolve
spokesman confirmed the death of Islamic State (ISIS) operative Charaffe
Al-Mouadan, aka Aba Souleyman. He had been identified as an ISIS operative by
the MEMRI JTTM and had been quoted and mentioned in MEMRI JTTM reports
beginning in November 2013, and individually profiled in a February 2014 report
on French-speaking foreign fighters. His prolific online activities had been
followed by MEMRI JTTM researchers since September 2013, when he first arrived
in Syria.
EXCLUSIVE: Iraqi Shi'ite
Militia Sniper At Work: I’ve Fought The Americans And Jews, Killed 173 ISIS
Terrorists
 The following clip is a
complimentary offering from MEMRI's Jihad and Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM).
For JTTM subscription information, click here.
In a video-clip posted on
the Internet on December 25, an Iraqi sniper with the PMU Shi'ite Militia says
that he has fought in many wars, including against the Americans and the Jews.
Since May, "I have killed 173 [ISIS terrorists]," he says, as he aims
at his target.
"Abu Tahseen": "My
Name is Abu Tahseen. My name is Abu Tahseen. I was born in 1953. I am 63 years
old. I have fought in many wars, including the war in the Golan in 1973. I am a
sniper. I participated in the Kuwait war, in the Iraq-Iran war, in [the war]
against the Americans, and in [the war] against the Jews. Some wars were just
wars. In the Iran-Iraq war, people were led astray and were afraid.
"Today, I've killed
only two. Two is also nice, no? Usually I kill three or four a day. But the day
is still young. There's still time."
"Abu Tahseen": "I've
been here since May. Since May sixth until today, I have killed 173."
EXCLUSIVE:
Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan's Annual 2015 Report Gives Details Of Its Operations
On December 29, 2015, Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP)
released an annual report that includes details of its activities over the
course of 2015. The report, which provides a monthly breakdown of its
activities, was released via Wordpress.com. following are excerpts from the
report:
The TTP, once the most dreaded terror group that almost
destabilized the Pakistani state, has been displaced from Pakistan and is
thought to be operating from somewhere in Afghanistan. However, it does
continue to have some presence in the Pakistani tribal region and carries out
regular attacks, which are of low intensity. Currently, it is led by Maulana
Fazlullah.
EXCLUSIVE:
Jaysh Al-Fath Clerics Issue Fatwa Obligating Sunnis Everywhere To Join War
Against Shi'ites In Syria
The Association of Scholars in Syria is a group of clerics,
jurisprudents and scholars associated with Jaysh Al-Fath, a coalition of
Islamist groups fighting in Syria. On December 28, 2015 the association issued
a fatwa titled "A General Call to Arms to The Islamic Nation," in
which it described the war in Syria as "a decisive battle for Sunnis"
everywhere, and called upon all able (Sunni) men to join this battle in order
to repel the "Shi'ite" enemy. The fatwa comes after, on December 26,
Jaysh Al-Fath's supreme command issued a similar statement calling for a
general Sunni mobilization against the "Shi'ite" forces in Syria and
urging religious authorities to join it in this call.
EXCLUSIVE:
ISIS Claims Responsibility For Assassinating Egyptian Army Officer In Cairo
On December 30, 2015, the Islamic State (ISIS) claimed
responsibility for assassinating an Egyptian army officer in Cairo. The officer
appears to have been targeted while in his vehicle. According to ISIS, he and
his driver were killed.  
AQAP
Supporter Leaks ISIS Document Expelling Several Members For Rebelling Against
Governor In Yemen
On December 28, 2015, "Jabal," a prominent
supporter of Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) who is active on Twitter,
leaked a document issued by the Islamic State (ISIS) Office of the Remote
Provinces expelling seven of its members.
According to the leaked document, the expelled members were
accused of defying the ISIS-appointed governor in Yemen, refusing to back down
from their positions, actively sowing discord among ISIS soldiers, and
pretending to be loyal to ISIS although they violated their vows of loyalty.
 
On December 30, 2015, the ISIS information bureau in
Sinai  province released a series of photos to mark the completion of one
recently completed sniper training course. The photos published on the jihadist
forum Shumoukh Al-Islam and elsewhere, documents training in an
undisclosed Sinai open area, sniping at marksmanship targets, camouflage field
exercises by trainees and so on. The following are examples:
Turkestan
Islamic Party Video Glorifies Fighters Killed In Syria, Including Alleged
French National
On December 26, 2015, the Turkestan Islamic Party (TIP) – an
Al-Qaeda affiliate consisting mostly of Uighur fighters which is currently
fighting in Syria – released a video of a nasheed (religious hymn) in the Uighur language titled
"The Martyrs," in honor of TIP's fallen fighters. The video,
subtitled in Arabic and English, was released by the Al-Qaeda-affiliated Global
Islamic Media Front (GIMF), circulated via Twitter and Telegram and
hosted on Archive.org and Youtube.
AQIM
Announces Death Of Prominent Cleric Abu Al-Hassan Al-Bulaidi In Ambush By
Algerian Forces
On December 25, 2015, Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM)
issued an official communiqué in which it announced that the head of its Shura
Council, Abu Al-Hassan Rashid Al-Bulaidi, was killed that day in a planned
ambush by the "apostates" (i.e., the Algerian army) in the Bu Nu'man
area in the Tizi Ouzou Province.
The communique, released by AQIM's media organ Al-Andalus, says:
"After a long journey of sacrifice and giving, the educator and sheikh
left us in order to join the procession of martyrs, rest from his toils and
meet his loved ones, the Prophet Muhammad and his Companions, [in Paradise]."
It then mentions Al-Bulaidi's early career as a mosque imam in a city in Blida
province, and praises his contribution to spreading the shari'a and jihad in
Algeria and his persistent war to purge the Islamic Maghreb of the
"apostates" [i.e., the Arab rulers] and the "agents."
'Jaysh
Al-Fath' Islamist Coalition In Syria Calls For General Mobilization Against
Shi'ites
On December 26, 2015, Jaysh Al-Fath, an alliance of Islamist
forces in Syria, issued a communiqué urging a general mobilization of all
"Muslims" (i.e., all Sunnis) to repel what is presented as a joint
assault by the "Nusairis" (i.e., the Alawite Assad regime), Russia,
Iran and the Shi'ite forces loyal to Assad. In appealing to all Sunni Muslims
and warning of the threat they face "within Syria and outside it,"
the communiqué reflects both the increasingly sectarian nature of the Syria
conflict and its increasingly international character. The communique is signed
by the Jaysh Al-Fath Supreme Military Committee and was posted on the
organization's Twitter account. The following are translated excerpts from it.
Officials in Bangladesh have arrested four members of the
Islamic State (ISIS) who were planning to recruit youths and travel to Syria,
according to a Bangladeshi daily.
The militants were identified as Sakhawatul Kabir, regional
commander of ISIS Bangladesh chapter; Nazrul Alam, a financier; Anwar Hossain,
who was previously convicted in connection with a bombing; and Rabiul Islam. A
court in Dhaka sent the four to five-day custody for further interrogation.
They were arrested in the Jatrabari and Khilkhet areas of Dhaka.
Report:
Pakistani Police Arrest Eight Jamaatud Dawa Members Who Joined ISIS
According to a Pakistani newspaper, police have arrested
eight members of Jamaatud Dawa (formerly Lashkar-e-Taiba led by Hafiz Muhammad
Saeed) who had joined the Islamic State (ISIS) from the town of Sialkot in
Punjab province.
The Counter Terrorism Department (CTD) claimed that it
arrested eight individuals and seized weapons, explosives, laptops, and CDs,
the Dawn newspaper reported. They had taken an oath to
"overthrow democracy and introduce Khilafat [caliphate] in Pakistan
through armed struggle," the report said, adding the eight belong to
different districts of Punjab.