2015-10~12
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/71925/20151214/china-formulates-anti-terrorism-guidelines.htm

China Formulates Anti-Terrorism Guidelines : Society : Chinatopix
China's security ministry has come up with national guidelines to coordinate all security forces across the country in response to the November 13 terror attacks in Paris that killed 130 people and injured more than 300 civilians.
Meng Jianzhu, China's security chief, announced the nine guidelines in an anti-terrorism work conference in Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region.
The conference was conducted following reports that the Islamic State, the group that laimed responsibility for the Paris terror attack, has been recruiting Muslims from among ethnic groups in China.
Meng said the growing influence of the Islamic State in the country has posed a very critical challenge for security forces in their fight against terrorism.
Meng said the nine new anti-terrorism guidelines that have been formulated are aimed at coping with new strategies and changes in the fight against terrorism at home and overseas.
The security czar said that China has been working with countries abroad and integrating its efforts with their anti-terrorism strategies following an increase in the number of local attacks which were plotted overseas via the Internet.
Meng said the anti-terrorism conference was likewise held upon the prodding of the central government, which assessed the terrorism situation in the country following the Paris terror attack.
The public security head said that the anti-terrorism conference also took into consideration the November 20  attacks in Mabako, the capital of Mali, which killed 27  people, 3 of whom were Chinese nationals.
Meng said the national guidelines will help police crack down on terrorist cells even before the terrorists could stage terror attacks around China.
Mei Jianming, Director of the Counterterrorism Research Center at the University of China, said that Xinjiang must not be the only place for police authorities to fight terrorism.
"Although Xinjiang is the traditional battleground of the country's anti-terrorism efforts, other areas must also step up their efforts," Mei said.
"This includes eliminating religious extremism and cracking down on terror-related audio and video material. There should be no room for a weak link," he added.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent rumors have emerged that Sacramento Kings All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins could finally move to the Los Angeles Lakers in the summer following his recent comments about the Hollywood squad’s young players after the two team’s recent game. read more