2015-10~12
http://www.thesundaily.my/news/1612505

Five detained over militant activities | theSundaily
KUALA LUMPUR: A former senior official of a plantation conglomerate deported from Turkey in a failed attempt to sneak into Syria to join the Islamic State (IS) was among four Malaysians and an Indonesian detained on suspicion of being involved in militancy in separate operations by the federal Special Branch last week.
The 40-year-old old man from Petaling Jaya had quit government-linked company Felda Global Ventures (FGV) in August under a voluntary separation scheme before leaving Malaysia to join forces with the IS via Turkey on Oct 21.
Inspector-General of Police Tan Sri Khalid Abu Bakar said today the suspect had befriended a Somalian in Twitter who facilitated the departure of the suspect to Turkey.
However, he said the suspect was detained by Turkish officials along with nine other foreigners namely Uighurs, Morrocans and Russians before being deported to Malaysia.
In another operation in Johor, two suspected militants aged 28 and 30, belonging to the Imam Mahdi terrorist cell, were held.
The younger suspect had plotted to carry out armed attacks at several locations in the Klang Valley.
Khalid said investigations showed he was prepared to kill anyone including his family who objected or attempted to thwart his plans.
The older suspect who ran a soybean drink stall is a member of the Al Ghuraba militant cell of the Jemaah Islamiah (JI) terrorist group and had been detained in Pakistan in 2013.
Khalid said the fourth and fifth suspect — a 22-year-old supervisor and his Indonesian helper who worked at Health Ministry pharmacy canteen in Petaling Jaya were arrested after police uncovered their plan to leave for Syria to join the IS. Both suspects had records of being detained by police for an immigration offence at Ledang Johor.
Khalid said all five suspects were detained between Nov 9-13 and held for investigations under anti-terrorism laws of the Penal Code and Security Offences (Special Measures) Act 2012 (Sosma).
Police radar on militant activities here were further intensified since Saturday following the IS carnage on Paris that left 132 dead and over 200 wounded.