2015-10~12
https://sg.news.yahoo.com/top-asian-news-5-09-m-gmt-050921854.html

Top Asian News 4:53 a.m. GMT
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia (AP) — Ten Southeast Asian heads of state and nine world leaders, including President Barack Obama, are meeting in Malaysia to discuss trade and economic issues. Terrorism and disputes over the South China Sea are also on the agenda. (All times local): ___ 12:15 a.m. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe says Japan is the "best partner" for Asia as it gears up for a new growth phase toward lasting sustainable growth. He says Japan is committed to bolster its overseas development assistance, and along with Asian Development Bank will provide $110 billion infrastructure financing over the next five years.
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia (AP) — Pushing back against efforts to bar Syrian refugees from resettling in the U.S., President Barack Obama vowed Saturday that his country will be a welcoming place for millions fleeing violence around the world "as long as I'm president." Obama commented Saturday at a learning center in the Malaysian capital that serves the poor, including some refugees. He met with boys and girls wearing crisp white and black uniforms and neckties as they sat at tables and worked on painting and puzzle projects. Obama said the youngsters "represent the opposite of terror, the opposite of the type of despicable violence we saw in Mali and Paris." Most of the children the president met with are Rohingya, a Muslim ethnic group.
WELLINGTON, New Zealand (AP) — All seven people aboard a helicopter that crashed Saturday on a scenic glacier in New Zeland are believed to have been killed, police said. The wreckage of a helicopter was located inside a crevasse on Fox Glacier, but rescuers were unable to reach it due to the difficult terrain, police said in a statement. They said that the pilot and six passengers are believed dead. The helicopter crashed at about 11 a.m. on the glacier, a popular tourist destination on New Zealand's South Island. Rescue teams reached the scene Saturday afternoon, but said crevasses and rugged terrain were hampering their efforts.
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia (AP) — Malaysia's leader on Saturday denounced the Islamic State as an "evil" terrorist group, saying his Muslim-majority country is ready to join others to defeat it while cautioning that a military solution alone was not enough. What needs to be "vanquished" is the ideology of the Islamic State, said Prime Minister Najib Razak in a speech to open two days of summits that will also include President Barack Obama. Najib said the world is in dire need of moderation. "This is how Gandhi, Nelson Mandela and Martin Luther King won the hearts and minds of their enemies.
BEIJING (AP) — Three senior executives of a powerful state-owned Chinese company were killed in the Friday attack on a Radisson hotel in the Mali capital of Bamako, officials said Saturday. China Railway Construction Corp. identified the victims as Zhou Tianxiang, general manager for the corporation's international group; Wang Xuanshang, a deputy general manager of the international group; and Chang Xuehui, general manager of the group's West Africa division. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs also confirmed Saturday that three Chinese nationals were among the dead in the attack on the Radisson Blu Hotel, and that four other Chinese citizens had been rescued.
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia (AP) — A Cambodian court has summoned opposition leader Sam Rainsy to hear new charges against him, after an arrest warrant was issued last week in a separate case, piling more pressure on opponents of the country's autocratic leader. Rainsy's arrest is being sought on an old defamation conviction that many believed had been lifted by a 2013 pardon. The ruling party-dominated National Assembly stripped Rainsy of his lawmaker's status and parliamentary immunity on Monday, prompting him to delay his return from an overseas trip. Prime Minister Hun Sen has now all but abrogated a political truce he reached with the opposition in 2014 to end a boycott of Parliament.
WASHINGTON (AP) — The United States is sharpening its criticism of Bangladesh's tribunal on war crimes after death sentences were upheld this week against two influential opposition leaders. U.S. lawmakers overseeing foreign policy described the tribunal as "very flawed" and a means of political retribution. The State Department was less pointed, saying Friday that executions should not take place until it's clear the trial process meets international standards. More than 15 people, mostly leaders of the opposition Jamaat-e-Islami party, have been convicted of war crimes committed during the country's 1971 independence war against Pakistan by two separate tribunals set up in 2010 by Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, who says justice for victims' families is overdue.
WASHINGTON (AP) — Two leading Republican senators have urged possible relaxation of U.S. sanctions on Myanmar should the ruling party respect election results and transfer power. Senate Majority Leader Sen. Mitch McConnell and Sen. John McCain introduced a resolution congratulating Myanmar on its Nov. 8 election won by the opposition party of Aung San Suu Kyi. The resolution notes that international observers have reported that the election "was largely free and fair" despite broader structural concerns such as the disenfranchisement of Rohingya Muslims. It encourages further steps toward normalization of relations if there's a "prompt and orderly transition in power." The U.S.
BEIJING (AP) — Chinese police have killed all but one of the 29 suspects in a deadly attack on a coal mine that killed 16 people in the restive region of Xinjiang, an official website reported Friday. The remaining suspect was arrested. The report in Tianshan Net, a news portal run by Communist Party officials in Xinjiang, was the first official confirmation of the bloody Sept. 18 mine attack, which had been reported in some foreign media but was kept tightly under wraps in China. China blames the violence in Xinjiang on terrorism, but authorities typically are reluctant to release details and have blocked information on some deadly incidents.
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — The rival Koreas on Friday agreed to hold talks next week as part of a previous deal aimed at improving ties in the wake of a military standoff in August. The talks among working-level officials at a border village next Thursday are aimed at preparing for higher-level negotiations the Koreas have agreed to hold, according to Pyongyang's state media and Seoul's Unification Ministry. Resuming high-level talks was among a set of agreements the sides struck after they averted the bloodshed they had threatened each other over land mine blasts blamed on Pyongyang that maimed two South Korean soldiers.