2015-10~12
http://www.japantoday.com/category/world/view/chinese-police-shoot-dead-28-from-terrorist-group-authorities

Chinese police shoot dead 28 from 'terrorist group': authorities ‹ Japan Today: Japan News and Discussion
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday.
Letters and numbers only; 5 to 50 characters. This cannot be changed later.
You will be sent an email to activate your account before you can log in.
Yes, I would like to receive news alerts from JapanToday
I agree to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
The difference being of course that their country is being occupied by China. Not that it justifies any act of violence, but it's important to be honest about these things.
Xinjiang is not really a part of China except by force, so this problem is not going away anytime soon.
The east turkishstan state was self proclaimed on earth between 1934-1944, an ill fated nation which was never has been recognised by the world. The argument of "A country being occupied by China" is baseless and it is just a "Myth".It is even worst than comparing with the Palestine state, the United Nations recognised the legitimate status of a Palestine state. But of course western critics wont recognizing China's rule of Xinjiang and Tibet, they have their own "Political calculations", and claiming it "Occupations".
While Israel has NEVER occupying the Palestine state no matter how many people of both sides died. This is the so called "Anti semitic", it is a crime.......blah blah!
The western standard is : All yours is wrong and all mine is right! End of discussion.
“China is a victim of terrorism,” Xinhua said in a commentary late Thursday.
No, China is a victim of its own thirst for resources at the expense of the freedom and liberty of any neighbors who happen to live on top of said resources. When the Chinese government releases its chokehold on Tibet and gives up its adventurism in the South China Sea, then I'll consider shedding a tear for it.
China just took the advantage to take out a case of people whom they thought was a nuisance labeling them terrooist but we know they weren't.
Lived in Beijing and spent a month traveling in Xinjiang back in '86-'87, and even then I was struck by their mutual, ferocious antipathy. Too bad for the Uighers that any movement for self-rule (not to mention independence) will only be cast by Nanzhonghai as "terrorism," no matter how peaceful or justified.
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday.
A 4k camera on a 4-inch display? That's like giving running shoes to a sumo wrestler...
Posted in: Apple's new iDevices say: Small is beautiful, too
I think Japan's beautiful countryside is vastly underrated (or just unknown to most) and could definitely…
Posted in: New plan to boost tourism will highlight Japan's cultural assets
Posted in: ANA, other airlines grounded due to systems glitch
@shonanbbM,

I am interested to hear the type of place you bought (condo, duplex, single-detached) and…
They can't sentence him only because their "evidence" was his confession.. Confessions can be forced and…
Posted in: Court accepts murder confession as evidence despite retraction