2015-10~12
http://www.shanghaidaily.com/feature/travel/Breathtaking-beauty-of-a-vital-desolate-wilderness/shdaily.shtml

Breathtaking beauty of a vital, desolate wilderness | Shanghai Daily
Follow us @  | Shanghai Call Center: 962288 |  Mobile Version  |  THU, APR 18, 2013
SIZE and splendor defines the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. It is large enough to include one or even a few countries between its borders and so visually gorgeous as to be mesmerizing.
Xinjiang forms part of China’s western frontier and is known for a wide range of ethnic cultures and regional geographic wonders which are particularly pronounced in its southern parts.
The visit to southern Xinjiang took us on an expedition through the hidden villages of the Lop people in the flowing desert of Taklamakan. We were in awe of the grandeur and mystery of Tianshan Mountain Grand Canyon, greeted by a variety of century-old trees in various peculiar poses at Aksu Magical Wood Park, and intoxicated by the beauty of Lake Karakuri and snow-capped Mount Muztagata.
One of the highlights was the poplar forest stretching along the northern edge of Tarim Basin in Luntai. Inflamed in autumn hues of various shades of yellow, the poplar’s immortality is that of legend for its survival through water deprivation, fading but staying upright, down but not crumbling, decaying but not collapsing.
Kashgar is where you can best experience the vigor and culture of multi-ethnic minorities, such as the Uygurs, the Tajiks and the Hui people.
We were invited to dine at a Uygur family home and celebrated with locals at the circumcision of an 8-year-old Uygur boy. Apart from the vitality of the wilderness, the beauty of desolation, and exotic ambience of ethnic minorities, I tried to capture more breathtaking moments through my camera lens.
Kindly remind you that you have reached your weekly limit of 20 free stories.
Kindly remind you that your 1-week free trial has expired. Thank you for your interest in our products.
To continue using full functionality of our site, please subscribe below.

Education, 
 Entertainment and culture, Environment,
 Expat community, 
 Health and science, Society, 
 In-depth, Services...

Art and culture, 
 Community, Education, 
 Animal planet, Travel...

Book, City Scene,
 Film, Home and design,
 Now and Then, Style,
 Technology, The Week...

 Copyright © 1999- Shanghai Daily. All rights reserved.Preferably
 viewed with Internet Explorer 8 or newer browsers.
