2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/10/13/foxs-keith-ablow-holocaust-victims-should-have-been-braver/

Fox’s Keith Ablow: Holocaust Victims Should Have Been Braver | Funs.co
Keith Ablow is a medical correspondent for Fox News (God help the people he treats). He recently defended Ben Carson’s claim that the Holocaust was a result of gun control. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“In an op-ed for FoxNews.com, Keith Ablow defended presidential candidate Ben Carson‘s controversial linking gun control to the Holocaust… only to turn that argument up to eleven.
Ablow readily agreed with the Anti-Defamation League that there weren’t enough guns owned by Jews in Germany to challenge the Nazis. But Ablow argues, “The mindset that Jews surrendered with their guns is far more important than the hardware they turned over: They surrendered the demonstrated intention, at all costs, to resist being deprived of liberty.””*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.