2015-10~12
http://www.todayonline.com/world/chinese-security-forces-kill-17-xinjiang-radio-free-asia

China silent on reports security raid killed 17 | TODAYonline
BEIJING — Chinese security forces in the restive far western region of Xinjiang have killed 17 people, including women and children, accused of involvement in an attack at a coal mine that left at least 50 dead, U.S.-based Radio Free Asia said today (Nov 18).
The US Government-funded Radio Free Asia, citing Xinjiang police, said that the 17 killed, including women and children, were all suspects in a Sept 18 attack on a coal mine that left at least 50 people dead. Among the dead in the police raid were three men believed to have been the attack’s ringleaders and their family members.
“I heard from colleagues who participated in the operation that the military blew up the cave where the suspects were hiding,” the report quoted Xinjiang police officer Ghalip Memethe as saying.
“That is why we were able to kill all of them with zero victims (from our side). Seventeen corpses were gathered after the explosion.”
Before today’s reports, the government made no public comment about the September attack at the Sogan coal mine in the city of ­Aksu, Xinjiang. Radio Free Asia ­reported two months ago that most of the casualties in the attack were members of the Han Chinese majority, and that police blamed knife-wielding Uighur separatists. The attack occurred during national celebrations to mark the 60th anniversary of the establishment of the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region.
Last Saturday, state media microblogs published pictures provided by the Ministry of Public Security of armed police on what it said was a ­56-day mission to root out militants in Xinjiang. Though it gave no details of the target, the post said that all the suspects had been killed.
Some of those reports were later removed from the Internet.
Radio Free Asia said that report likely referred to the operation to find the suspects in the coal mine attack.
The Chinese Ministry of Public ­Security did not respond to requests for comment on the latest police raids. While the government often gives ­details about violence in Xinjiang, it is not uncommon for them not to ­report certain incidents at all.
A spokesman for China’s Foreign Ministry, the only government ­department that regularly answers questions from foreign reporters, said he knew nothing about the report.