2015-10~12
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/microsoft/12075817/Microsoft-to-warn-users-about-government-spying-after-Chinese-Hotmail-attack.html

Microsoft to warn users about government spying - Telegraph
Microsoft has said it will tell customers if they are being targeted by government spies after it was reported that thousands of Hotmail accounts had been hacked by the Chinese government.
Users of Outlook email and other services will be alerted by the company with a special message saying that details may have been compromised by state-sponsored attackers, Microsoft said.
The move, which follows other tech companies including Facebook and Twitter this year, comes amid growing concerns about governments spying on individuals by accessing their email and social media accounts.
However, it could put Microsoft at odds with the British government, which has said that telling internet users about attempts to access their communications could jeopardise investigations. It emerged this week that employees at Twitter and other internet groups could face up to two years in prison if they tip off customers about state monitoring.
A "disclosure provision" in the draft Investigatory Powers Bill will make it illegal for companies to tell the subject of a surveillance exercise that requests for their data have been made, without express permission. Although the wording of the bill specifically mentions data requests, while Microsoft's new policy covers attacks, governments have become increasingly frustrated at tech companies not co-operating with surveillance attempts.
Thousands of Hotmail accounts were reportedly compromised by the Chinese government
Since the Edward Snowden revelations, major tech companies including Microsoft have taken to publishing transparency reports, revealing how often governments demand information. Requests to Facebook from the UK increased 60 per cent in the first half of the year.
Microsoft said it would warn people about attacks after Reuters claimed the company failed to tell thousands whose Hotmail accounts had been targeted by the Chinese government in 2011. Instead of notifying the individuals, many of which were associated with China's Tibetan and Uighur minorities, it simply told them to change passwords.
"We’re taking this additional step of specifically letting you know if we have evidence that the attacker may be 'state-sponsored' because it is likely that the attack could be more sophisticated or more sustained than attacks from cybercriminals and others," Microsoft's Scott Charney said.
"If you receive one of these notifications it doesn’t necessarily mean that your account has been compromised, but it does mean we have evidence your account has been targeted."
A Microsoft spokesman added: "Our focus is on helping customers keep personal information secure and private. Our primary concern was ensuring that our customers quickly took practical steps to secure their accounts, including by forcing a password reset. We weighed several factors in responding to this incident, including the fact that neither Microsoft nor the US government were able to identify the source of the attacks, which did not come from any single country. We also considered the potential impact on any subsequent investigation and ongoing measures we were taking to prevent potential future attacks."

The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


As an extraordinary photo showing the solar eclipse from space is revealed as 
 fake, a look back at famous photoshopped images 


As Instagram announces that it now has more than more than 400 million monthly 
 active users, Sophie Curtis takes us through the ten most followed 
 accounts on the Facebook-owned site


Ahead of the launch of the new iPhone 5 SE, the Telegraph Tech team take a 
 look at how the handset has changed the mobile phone industry since it was 
 launched in 2007 


The mobile industry may be locked in a bitter battle between Samsung and 
 Apple, but history tells a very different story... 


Many children have never seen or used a video tape, camcorder or floppy disc. 
 Take a look at the gadgets which will puzzle younger people 


Apple files hundreds of patents a year for weird and wonderful gadgets - some 
 of which become a reality and others never make it to our shelves. Here are 
 some of the best


Apple is expected to launch its iPhone 7 in September, but what will it look 
 like? Here some designers offer their concept images


From the Apple iPod to Google driverless cars, we run down the technologies 
 that have transformed our world since the start of the 21st century 


In pics: Some fledgling firms have reached valuations in the tens of billions. 
 These are the 20 priciest of them all
