2015-10~12
http://www.spacewar.com/reports/Surge_in_French_police_army_sign-ups_after_Paris_attacks_999.html

Surge in French police, army sign-ups after Paris attacks


Riyadh is trying to bring "as broad a cross-section of Syrian opposition groups as possible" to a meeting in the kingdom, Adel al-Jubeir told a press conference with his Austrian counterpart Sebastian Kurz.


Those talks would be a prelude to potential negotiations between the opposition and representatives of President Bashar al-Assad's regime.


In mid-November, diplomats from 17 countries met in the Austrian capital to seek a route toward a political transition in Syria, where nearly five years of war have killed more than 250,000 people.


"I can't give you a date" for the talks, Jubeir said.


"We're trying to do it sooner rather than later. But we need to first make a decision that it is feasible and productive to have these talks.


"We want to have all the minorities represented; we want to have all of the political groups represented," added the minister, whose country supports some Sunni forces on the battlefield and has bombed Islamic State group targets in Syria as part of a US-led coalition.


Groups on "terrorist lists", such as IS, would not be part of the talks, Jubeir said.


"We have reviewed several lists of candidates that were provided by several countries, and we have our own list," he said.


Once a decision is made to proceed, the details will be discussed with the United Nations and allies, Jubeir added.


The aim will be to unify Syria's opposition and clarify their objectives, and to strengthen their position with respect to potential talks with the Assad regime, he said.


Jubeir added that there are only two choices for Assad -- either he steps down peacefully "or he could be ousted militarily, but he has no future in Syria."


At the Vienna meeting, diplomats agreed on a target of six months to have a transitional government followed by elections within 18 months after that.


Opposition members have called the plan unrealistic, though some reacted with cautious optimism.


US Secretary of State John Kerry visited Abu Dhabi this week to encourage his Emirati and Saudi allies in their efforts to convince Syria's rebel factions to agree a ceasefire with Assad.


 France's emergency services and military have seen a surge of interest from young people keen to join up after watching the Paris attacks unfold on television.


"During the attacks I saw all these emergency workers helping people voluntarily. I just felt powerless sitting in front of the TV and I said to myself that I wanted to help people as well," music student Simon Chaudemanche told AFP.


The police, fire brigade and armed forces have all reported a jump in young people asking about careers -- or like Chaudemanche, wanting to volunteer for a few months.


A day or so later the 20-year-old decided to go and volunteer with the Paris fire brigade, where the recruitment office is seeing up to 20 enquiries a day -- five times more than before the November 13 carnage, which left 130 people dead and 350 wounded.


Chaudemanche signed up for 10 months of community service as part of an ambulance team -- run by the fire service in France -- in return for a token payment of around 500 euros ($530) a month.


The military recruitment centre in Rennes, in western France, has seen a similar trend, with visitor numbers around double their normal level on many of the days after the attacks, according to recruiting officer Captain Gael Briand.


For 18-year-old Alexandre Frapard, the attacks reawakened a long-held dream of joining up and now he says he is ready to drop out of university and sign up.


"From the age of 12 or 13 I've wanted to join the Marines. With the attacks I thought about it again, it put the idea back in my head," he said.


Former economics student Baptiste Girard sees himself as a fighter pilot. It is a role much in the public eye since France stepped up air strikes on Islamic State targets in Iraq and Syria.


French TV stations have flooded the airwaves over the past week with images of Rafale jets taking off on bombing runs from the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier off the Syrian coast.


Girard says he wants to "serve the country" and "defend its values... which are being threatened."


The police, whose elite units stormed a Paris apartment and killed the ringleader of the attacks, have also been drawing potential young recruits.


Its recruitment website saw a boom in visits after the attacks, with more than 20,000 visitors a day compared with 7,700 before.


Downloads of sign-up forms for police support officers have increased seven-fold up to 360 a day.


Despite the flood of enthusiasm, the institutions involved are keeping a cool head, refusing to ride the national wave of enthusiasm.


"We are continuing to work in exactly the same way," said army recruiter Briand.


"It's vital that each individual makes their decision carefully, it shouldn't be done in a rash of emotion."


Since the start of the year, of the 325 people who have shown an interest in joining the air force in Rennes, only 129 submitted the forms and only 26 of them were taken on.


"The army is not 'Call of Duty'," said Briand, warning fans of the popular video game series that real-life combat is a very different matter.


The view is echoed by a firefighter, who asked not to be named.


"Some of our youngsters doing community service were sent to help after the attacks -- they went through some pretty difficult moments," he said.


This makes the selection interview all the more important, to find those who are truly motivated for the long-term.


"We already ask them if they are really sure they want to do this job. After the attacks we will certainly stress even more the risks of having to confront extremely violent scenes," he said.