2015-10~12
http://www.4-traders.com/news/Chinese-Authorities-Say-28-People-With-Extremist-Links-Killed--21441346/

Chinese Authorities Say 28 People With Extremist Links Killed

 BEIJING?Chinese authorities killed more than two dozen people in northwest China that they said had links to foreign extremist groups, according to official Chinese media on Friday.

 The report, which detailed a clash that occurred earlier this month, comes as Beijing seeks to tie its struggle with separatists in its northwestern Xinjiang region with the global fight against terrorism. It comes less than two days after the extremist group Islamic State said it had killed a Chinese hostage.

 The report also offered the first official confirmation that Chinese mine workers and others were killed in an earlier terrorist attack on a remote Xinjiang coal mine in September, though it offered a lower death count than foreign media reports.

 The most recent deaths capped a 56-day manhunt through mountainous terrain launched by local authorities after the September attack, the official Xinjiang Daily newspaper said. A total of 28 people had been killed and one had surrendered by the time the operation came to an end on Nov. 12, according to the newspaper. All were part of a terrorist cell receiving orders from a foreign extremist organization, it said, adding that "tens of thousands" of local civilians had aided the effort by providing information and creating a dragnet.

 "It doesn't matter whether the terrorists are domestic or sent to China from abroad, it doesn't matter what methods they use or where they hide, they will be resolutely and completely exterminated," the newspaper said, quoting Xinjiang police.

 Photos posted online by Xinjiang propaganda authorities showed paramilitary troops negotiating steep mountain passes with assault rifles and columns of uniformed men carrying sticks in an apparent search for the targets.

 The Sept. 18 attack on the Sogan coal mine in Xinjiang's Baicheng county that launched the manhunt was first reported by U.S.-funded Radio Free Asia. More than 50 workers and security guards belonging to the majority Han Chinese ethnic group were killed and around the same number injured when knife-wielding attackers overwhelmed security guards at the mine, RFA said at the time.

 Xinjiang Daily put the death toll in the September coal-mine attack at 16. The reason for the discrepancy wasn't clear.

 The report on Friday appeared to confirm a message that appeared briefly on an official Chinese police social media feed on Sunday announcing an unspecified major antiterror operation and linking it to last week's Islamic State-linked attacks in Paris. "Today, Paris encountered the most serious terrorist attacks in its history. Today, Chinese Xinjiang police made an important achievement against terrorists after a 56 day fight!!!" read the post, which was quickly deleted.

 It is unclear why the post was deleted, or why news of the operation was released more than a week after it concluded. A report earlier this week by RFA said authorities had killed 17 people in response to the coal-mine attack, including women and children. Police in Baicheng didn't immediately respond to requests for comment.

 The report followed China's angry response on Thursday to the murder of Chinese citizen Fan Jinghui , who had been taken hostage and held for ransom by Islamic State in September and whose execution was announced by the extremist organization earlier this week. Chinese officials and government counterterrorism advisers portrayed the killing as evidence that China is among the countries targeted by terrorists.

 Beijing has struggled for decades with a long-simmering separatist movement in Xinjiang made up of members of the Turkic-speaking, mainly Muslim Uighur ethnic group. Violent attacks attributed to the movement have increased in number and severity in recent years, a trend Beijing blames on increasing links between Uighur separatists and overseas extremist groups.

 Uighur activists and some Western governments have rejected that assertion, saying the violence is instead being fed by resentment over massive large-scale Han Chinese migration to Xinjiang and draconian ethnic policies.

 Xinjiang Daily's report on Friday called terrorism "the enemy of mankind," repeating a phrase Chinese President Xi Jinping used in responding to Mr. Fan's death.