2015-10~12
http://www.chinapost.com.tw/china/national-news/2015/12/26/454480/China-to.htm

China to expel French journalist, reporter tells AFP - The China Post
Ursula Gauthier, a Beijing-based correspondent for French news magazine L'Obs, must issue a public apology for an article she wrote last month or mainland China's external affairs agency will not renew her press credentials, set to expire on Dec. 31, officials told Gauthier on Christmas Day.
"They confirmed that if I did not make a public apology on all the points that had 'hurt the Chinese people' ... my press card would not be renewed and I would have to leave on Dec. 31," she told AFP.
Gauthier would be the first foreign correspondent in mainland China to be expelled since the 2012 expulsion of Melissa Chan, correspondent for the English-language service of Al Jazeera.
While the domestic media is subject to strict control and many topics are taboo, the foreign media is free to publish on any topic. However, foreign journalists frequently complain of harassment by the authorities while conducting routine reporting.
Her article in L'Obs triggered condemnation from Beijing and a virulent campaign in the state-run Global Times and China Daily, as well as thousands of often violent and abusive comments from Chinese Internet users. Her photo was published online.
Entitled "After the attacks (on Paris), Chinese solidarity is not without ulterior motives," her essay spoke of mainland China's anti-terrorism policies in the country's western region of Xinjiang, homeland of the Muslim Uighur ethnic minority — many of whom complain of discrimination and controls on their culture and religion.
Chinese authorities said they believed Gauthier's article offered justification for violence in the region that the government labels as "terrorism."
"The article criticized China's counter-terrorism efforts, and denigrated and slandered Chinese policies. It provoked the strong indignation of the Chinese public," Hua Chunying, a mainland external affairs agency spokesperson, said at a regular press briefing in early December.
The agency did not immediately respond to calls and faxes on Friday seeking comment.
Beijing considers condemnation of attacks in Xinjiang by foreign governments and the international press as weak, and has slammed Western countries for applying "double standards" on terrorism in the wake of the attacks in Paris.