2015-10~12
http://mindanaoexaminer.com/bangkok-bomb-has-the-case-been-solved-bbc-news/

Bangkok bomb: Has the case been solved? | Mindanao Examiner Regional Newspaper
Twenty people died and more than 120 were injured in the horrific bombing on 17 August in central Bangkok at the Erawan shrine. But the investigation into who perpetrated the attack has seen conflicting statements and perplexing developments. Here are the twist and turns that took police from knowing very little after the deadly blast, to claiming to have identified their main suspect six weeks later.
On 18 August, a day after the bomb, another explosion in a canal sent a huge column of water over passers-by, but caused no injuries. Later police identified it as caused by a bomb similar to the one at the shrine.
On 19 August police showed CCTV video, taken from the shrine and surrounding area. In it a man in a yellow shirt, with long hair and thick-framed spectacles, leaves a black backpack beside a bench at the shrine, and walks out just before the bomb explodes.
The police can ascertain nothing about his identity from the grainy images, and have no information after he was dropped off by a motorbike taxi about a kilometre from the shrine.
On 22 August new CCTV video shows another man kicking a bag into the canal where the 18 August explosion occurred. This took place just 30 minutes after the first bomb.
The police now know they are dealing with a network. But their often conflicting statements undermine public confidence in their competence.
On 24 August the investigation stalls. Police complain that inconsistent witness testimony and broken CCTV cameras are hampering their work.
“We have to use our imagination,” admits police chief Somyot Poompunmuang. He says they do not know whether the perpetrators are still in Thailand or not.
On 29 August there is a breakthrough – police and military officers detain their first suspect, a foreign man carrying a fake Turkish passport, found surrounded by potential bomb-making materials in an apartment north of Bangkok.
The following day they find more materials in another apartment. A Thai Muslim woman and her Turkish husband are also named as suspects. Both are believed to be in Turkey.
On 31 August Chief Somyot brings out a stack of cash – 3m Thai baht ($82,000; £54,000) offered as a reward for information leading to arrests – and gives it to his own officers.
On 1 September the second suspect is detained, after being handed back across the border by the Cambodian authorities.
He is carrying a Chinese passport that identifies him as Yusufu Mierali, a Muslim from Xinjiang where the Uighur minority lives. Police believe he may have assembled the bomb. They think the yellow-shirt bomber is still at large.
By 5 September a total of 10 arrest warrants have been issued.
On 9 September police identify a man named “Izan” they believe organised the bombing, who left Thailand for Bangladesh the night before the attack. With the help of Bangladesh they trace his movements via Delhi and Abu Dhabi to Istanbul.
His passport shows his real name as Abudusataer Abudureheman, a Muslim Chinese citizen from Xinjiang. There is still confusion over whether Thailand has requested any help from Turkey. The Thai police have insisted all along that foreign assistance is not needed.
By now it is clear most of the plotters are foreigners. Both suspects in Thai custody are Muslim Uighurs from China’s Xinjiang province, as is “Izan”, the man the Thais believe was the ringleader.
Sources who have met the suspects say they speak of repression in Xinjiang and appear to have been radicalised. But the police continue to maintain the bombing was not an act of politically-motivated terrorism, but the work of people smugglers annoyed by Thai anti-trafficking operations.
This despite the growing conviction among terrorism experts that it was most likely retribution for the Thai decision to forcibly repatriate 109 Uighur asylum-seekers to China in July.
Police on 25 September say they now believe that the first suspect they detained, Bilal Mohammed, is the yellow-shirt bomber. They say he confessed to being the bomber on 23 September and that this is supported by new CCTV video and photographs from Yusufu Mierali’s camera.
Bilal had until then insisted he was just being smuggled to Malaysia using a false Turkish passport. His unexpected confession was made in military custody, without his lawyer. A source who has seen him tells the BBC he believes Bilal was coerced into confessing.(Jonathan Head)
The Mindanao Examiner Regional Newspaper Mar.  21-27, 2016 Link: https://issuu.com/mindanaoexaminernewspaper/docs/mindanaoexaminer173 Click to read: http://mindanaoexaminer.com/malaysian-lawmaker-wants-to-cut-diplomatic-to-philippines-mindanao-examiner-regional-newspaper-mar-21-27-2016/ For all your publication needs and advertisements, please call Sales and Advertising … Full article

The Mindanao Examiner Regional Newspaper Mar. 14-20, 2016 Link: https://issuu.com/mindanaoexaminernewspaper/docs/mindanaoexaminer172 Click to read: http://mindanaoexaminer.com/isis-trying-to-set-foothold-in-south-the-mindanao-examiner-regional-newspaper-mar-14-20-2016/ For all your publication needs and advertisements, please call Sales and Advertising …
