2015-10~12
http://www.freepressjournal.in/us-uk-embassies-in-beijing-warn-of-possible-christmas-threat-to-westerners/742948

US, UK embassies in Beijing warn of possible Christmas threat to Westerners | Freepress Journal
Beijing : China’s counter-terrorism police units have been deployed in key points in Beijing following threat of attacks on foreigners in the festive season.
 The US, UK, French and other embassies put out alerts starting that they had received information of possible threats against Westerners in the Sanlitun area on or around Christmas Day. The Australian and French governments have also urged their citizens to remain vigilant.
  They have asked their citizens to be vigilant. Asked about the threats, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told media here that China will ensure adequate security for Chinese and foreign nationals in the city.
Contingents of SWAT (Special Weapons Tactics Teams) teams, which specialises in counter-terrorism operations, were deployed in Sunlitun district, which is frequented by foreigners. Security has also been beefed up at the US, UK and other Western embassies.
Though China has been battling terrorists in Xinjiang and several parts of the country, it is rare to receive open threats.
Beijing police have issued a yellow security alert in the city. A yellow alert is the second lowest level in China’s four-level security alert system.
China blames separatist East Turkistan Islamic Movement, an alQaeda backed outfit, for the violence which is active in Xinjiang, where Uyghur Muslims were restive over the settlements of Hans from different parts of the country.


 
 
 
 Unless there is some hidden design behind it, the two-day deliberations of the BJP’s national executive meeting underlined a twin-track… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 Maybe it’s a problem of existing in our own ‘safety zones’—used these days as a synonym for ideological bubble. Maybe… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 If some medicines are found ‘harmful’ or even useless to consumers, the government or the apex drug regulator is within… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 Dr. Sanjay Deshmukh, vice chancellor of Mumbai University, speaks of the many paradigm shifts that are now needed. Shraddha Kamdar… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 A couple of years ago, we had published an article that essentially reproducted an email sent to us by valued… 

 Read more…  


Copyright © 2016 . All Rights Reserved. Maintained by Designwell Infotech