2015-10~12
http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-arrested-aqis-operative-speaks-of-an-arrangement-between-al-qaida-and-iranian-security-agencies-2156480

Arrested AQIS operative speaks of an arrangement between Al Qaida and Iranian security agencies | Latest News & Updates at Daily News & Analysis
The arrest of Mohamad Asif, an alleged operative of Al Qaida in Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), has brought to fore several revelations which are going to keep Indian intelligence agencies on their toes. Among some of the alarming claims made by Asif during his interrogation is perhaps the safe passage given to him for travelling to Turkey from Iran where he was caught by Iranian security agencies. The special cell claimed that it was Al Qaida that ensured that their operative travels to Turkey instead of being deported to India or out under arrest by Iranian authorities.
In a statement released to the media on Wednesday, the Special Cell said, "When accused Mohamad Asif reached Iran following the same route and modus operandi through which he had entered Pakistan, he was caught by Iranian security agency at the Mehriyaz border. However, the contacts of Al Qaeda ensured that he was transited to Turkey and after some days, accused Asif found himself in the company of Uighur AQ operatives, who had a base in Istanbul.
"Since his travel visa for Iran had long expired and he had overstayed it by almost 13 months, as advised by his handlers, he approached the Indian embassy at Istanbul and pleaded that he had lost his Indian passport and was sent back to India on an emergency certificate. Accused Mohd Asif landed in Delhi in September 2014 and since then was deeply involved in the expansion of AQIS in India," the statement read.
While senior officials of the special cell did not delve into details of what, they said, looks like an arrangement between Iranian security agencies and Al Qaida, it is likely that Asif's interrogation can prompt intel agencies to notify their counterparts in Tehran.
Among other revelations are the fresh details on Maulana Asim Umar, who was appointed the Amir(head) of AQIS by AQ chief Aymin-al-Zawahiri. The wide network starting from Uttar Pradesh and covering Iran, Afghanistan, Turkey and Pakistan is something the investigators will now be looking into.
"Asif along with the two youths radicalised by him procured travelers’ VISA for Iran on the pretext that they had to perform ‘ziyarat’ at the shrine of the late Grand Ayatollah Khomaini in Teheran, said Arvind Deep, Special CP, Special Cell.
After landing in Tehran, Asif is said to have called up Qasim to inform him of their arrival. In a few days, a contact of Qasim approached them at the hotel where they were staying and got them their tickets for traveling up to Zahedan, the capital city of Sistan and Baluchestan province of Iran.
From Zahedan, they went to Sarwan where they were picked up by another contact of Qasim. From Sarawan, they reached the Iran-Pakistan border and crossed it over foot. The contact of Qasim ensured that there was no difficulty in crossing over the border. Once in Pakistan, the contact sent by Qasim got them board a car which took them to Quetta. From Quetta, they were taken on motor cycles to Ghazni in Afghanistan, crossing hostile mountainous terrain which is a hotbed of terrorist activity. From Ghazni, they went to Junubi Waziristan or South Waziristan in Pakistan and from there, to Sumali or North Waziristan. In Sumali Waziristan, accused Asif met his long emigrated Indian friend, who was using the code name of Assad. Assad has been identified as Usman a resident of Sambhal, UP.
"Finding Usman was a moment of extreme joy for Asif as he knew that he had landed amongst his kin. Usman further took the trio to Miran Shah where they met Qasim, identified as Sayed Akhtar also a resident of Sambhal, who was the local assistant to the elusive Maulana Asim Umar, " said the senior officer.
"Sayed and Usman briefed Asif and the young terrorists accompanying him about Al Qaeda, its structure, objectives and what was in store for these jehadis on their path to the ultimate glory. Accused Asif was especially chosen to meet Maulana Asim Umar as he had to shoulder greater responsibilities, " the senior officer added.