2015-10~12
http://www.shanghaidaily.com/national/Adviser-outlines-Xinjiang-priorities/shdaily.shtml

Adviser outlines Xinjiang priorities | Shanghai Daily
Follow us @  | Shanghai Call Center: 962288 |  Mobile Version  |  THU, APR 18, 2013
LONG-TERM stability and security is the top priority in Xinjiang, China’s top political adviser Yu Zhengsheng said yesterday as he stressed that the current focus is on counterterrorism.
Yu, chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, was speaking at a rally in Urumqi, the regional capital, marking the 60th anniversary of the autonomous region’s founding.
All policies and programs on economic development, people’s livelihoods, reform, ethnic minorities and religion should contribute to the final goal, Yu said.
“We must be fully aware of the severe situation we are facing to maintain long-term stability in Xinjiang,” Yu said. “Counterterrorism is the focus of our current work.”
“The three forces (separatism, terrorism and extremism) are the biggest threats for Xinjiang and the common enemies for people of all ethnic groups. We must clench our fists tight and take the initiative to crack down on violence and terror activities strictly and lawfully and fight the three forces,” Yu said.
“We must fully realize that the anti-separatism combat is a long-term, complicated and fierce one,” Yu said, calling for lawful methods and an improved work mechanism to ensure stability and security.
The government will also address other social problems, he said, adding that it will balance security efforts with the need for economic development.
The Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region has a population of 22 million from 47 ethnic groups, and a system of ethnic regional autonomy was established when it was founded on October 1, 1955.
Yu noted prominent development of Xinjiang over the past 60 years in various fields such as agriculture, farming, modern industry, logistics, tourism, infrastructure, transport and environmental protection.
He noted that the region’s GDP last year was 115.6 times that in 1955.
“The living standards for people of all ethnic groups have improved considerably... (The region) has achieved the shift from poverty to a well-off society in general, and is striding forward to an all-round well-off society,” Yu said, citing compulsory education, better medical services and the protection of ethnic minorities’ culture and customs.
Yu said various favorable policies carried out by the Party had led to a notable increase in the number of officials and professionals of ethnic minorities in the region.
A State Council report released last month showed that in 1955 the number of ethnic minority officials in Xinjiang was 46,000 with the figure rising to 417,000 in 2014, or 51.4 percent of total officials in the region.
Yu and a central government delegation arrived in Xinjiang on September 25 for the anniversary celebrations. They returned to Beijing last night.
Kindly remind you that you have reached your weekly limit of 20 free stories.
Kindly remind you that your 1-week free trial has expired. Thank you for your interest in our products.
To continue using full functionality of our site, please subscribe below.

Education, 
 Entertainment and culture, Environment,
 Expat community, 
 Health and science, Society, 
 In-depth, Services...

Art and culture, 
 Community, Education, 
 Animal planet, Travel...

Book, City Scene,
 Film, Home and design,
 Now and Then, Style,
 Technology, The Week...

 Copyright © 1999- Shanghai Daily. All rights reserved.Preferably
 viewed with Internet Explorer 8 or newer browsers.
