2015-10~12
http://news.yahoo.com/top-asian-news-5-19-m-gmt-051909694.html

Top Asian News 4:33 a.m. GMT - Yahoo News
In Bangkok, police-flanked partygoers will ring in the new year at the site of a deadly bombing that took place just months ago. In Paris, residents recovering from their city's own deadly attacks will enjoy scaled-back celebrations. And in Belgium's capital, authorities anxious after thwarting what they say was a holiday terror plot have canceled festivities altogether. As the final hours of 2015 draw to a close, many are bidding a weary and wary adieu to a year marred by attacks that left nations reeling and nerves rattled. Still, most places are forging ahead with their celebrations as many refuse to let jitters ruin the joy of the holiday.
Asked to sum up in two words 2015 and expectations for the coming year, people around the world have this to say: ___ THAILAND "A mess and a fresh start." — Korawut Lam, college student ___ INDIA "Hope and change." — Mona Arthur, journalist ___ CHINA "Smog and corruption." — Chen Chen, hairdresser ___ BRAZIL "Economic crisis and Olympic crisis." — Meire Gomes, jewelry seller ___ NEW YORK "Lousy economy and more money." — Ronnie Boyd, seller of knickknacks and scarves on Times Square ___ MALAYSIA "Tough life and better economy." — Tony Wong, businessman
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — North Korea's top official in charge of relations with South Korea has died in a traffic accident, the country's state media announced Wednesday, potentially dimming the prospect for ties between the rival countries. He was 73. Kim Yang Gon, head of the United Front Department at the ruling Workers' Party, died Tuesday morning, the Korean Central News Agency reported. It said a state funeral will be held Thursday but gave no further details about his death. While North Korea's road conditions are poor, the lack of detail helped feed speculation in South Korean media that Kim's death was suspicious, though South Korean officials declined to comment.
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — North Korea's announcement that the country's top official in charge of relations with South Korea died in a traffic accident gave few details, triggering questions about the death of a man who was dubbed as a close associate of absolute leader Kim Jong Un. He's not the only senior North Korean official reported to have died in a car accident. While information in the secretive, authoritarian state is often impossible to confirm, outside observers use the officials' reported feuding with their political opponents to guess who might have been behind their demise. They also speculate the officials might have been driving after overnight drinking parties.
BEIJING (AP) — Rescuers using infrared cameras to peer into darkness at a wrecked mine in eastern China on Wednesday found eight surviving miners who were trapped for five days after a collapse so violent it registered as a seismic event. The disaster on Christmas Day at the gypsum mine in Shandong province killed at least one worker. Nine others remain missing, and 11 made it to safety or were rescued early on. Infrared cameras detected the surviving miners waving their hands Wednesday, and rescuers were drawing up plans to pull them to safety, said state broadcaster China Central Television, or CCTV.
BEIJING (AP) — Cabinet officials from China and Taiwan have spoken for the first time using a newly inaugurated hotline, the latest effort to build trust between the longtime rivals. The link that went into service Wednesday represents an upgrade in contact between the sides by connecting the heads of the two Cabinet-level agencies responsible for their relations, Taiwan's Mainland Affairs Council and China's Taiwan Affairs Office. Existing hotlines already connect the agencies' deputy directors as well as the semi-official organizations that have negotiated a series of agreements in the absence of formal ties. The new hotline was among the few takeaways from a historic November summit in Singapore between Chinese President Xi Jinping and his Taiwanese counterpart, Ma Ying-jeou.
BEIJING (AP) — The chairman of one of China's three main state-owned phone carriers resigned Wednesday following an announcement he is the target of an anti-corruption investigation. China Telecom Ltd. chairman Chang Xiaobing is the latest in a string of dozens of executives at major state-owned companies to be detained or questioned in a steadily expanding, 3-year-old anti-graft crackdown led by President Xi Jinping. Chang also resigned as chief executive, China Telecom announced. It said its chief operating officer, Yang Jie, would serve as chairman and CEO until a permanent replacement is named. The ruling Communist Party's Central Commission for Discipline Inspection said Sunday that Chang was suspected of "serious violations," its term for corruption.
MANILA, Philippines (AP) — Philippine Roman Catholic Church officials have reprimanded a priest for riding a hoverboard and singing a song during Christmas Eve Mass. The Diocese of San Pablo, south of Manila, said the Rev. Albert San Jose apologized for his action, which was caught on video and widely shared on YouTube. The video shows the priest in a white cassock gliding up and down the church's aisles on the two-wheeled electric scooter while singing a Christmas song. Some members of the surprised congregation applaud as he pivots and moves backward. The performance came just before the final blessing in the Mass at the church in Binan city in Laguna province.
BEIJING (AP) — China's godfather of rock Cui Jian says his basic message of personal freedom hasn't changed in his new album, even if the world has. The rocker, who fell out of favor with the government after he sided with demonstrating students during the 1989 Tiananmen protests, said the messages in his songs today may not be different "but the way that you understand could be different" because of the changes China has gone through. Growing personal wealth among Chinese has created the chance to travel and take control over their private lives, Cui said, a far cry from the tightly controlled society of the 1980s.
BEIJING (AP) — Chinese authorities blamed freak weather and failures in the crew's judgment for the capsizing of a cruise ship that killed hundreds earlier this year, recommending that the captain be further investigated and representatives of the shipping company and local authorities be punished for management flaws. The disaster on the Yangtze River on June 1 killed 442 people and left just 12 survivors. The Eastern Star was carrying many elderly tourists on a 10-day cruise from Nanjing in China's east upstream to Chongqing. The Cabinet's investigation team concluded the Eastern Star was brought down "by strong winds and heavy rains" associated with a downburst, a strong downdraft that is "a very rare weather phenomenon." The findings were issued Wednesday by the government's official Xinhua News Agency.