2015-10~12
http://www.lidtime.com/bjp-s-elders-meet-talk-kirti-azad-over-tea-2583/

BJP’s elders meet, talk Kirti Azad over tea - LidTime.com
“As you have not mentioned DDCA corruption issue, I believe that the party has nothing to do with this matter and is purely out of its purview”, Azad said.

Seeing Double! Kim Kardashian West and North Rock Matching Braids for Christmas
Kourtney posted the photograph on her website and wrote: “Our yearly Christmas card photo usually has our entire family in it”. Kim Kardashian and Kanye West have reportedly been inundated with big money offers for the first images of their son Saint.

The four veterans, who met for about an hour at Mr. Joshi’s residence, are understood to have also discussed the Kirti Azad issue. Now I am mentoring Kirti and they tweet it is a vendetta against AJ (Arun Jaitley).

Danish embassy in Beijing warns its citizens of threats
Camouflage-clad paramilitary police were deployed in Sanlitun and other areas across the city. The UK Embassy has issued the same guidance to British Government Staff.

Noted criminal lawyer Ram Jethmalani will represent Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in the defamation lawsuits filed by the Finance Minister. Suspended Darbhanga MP, however, reiterated that he remained a BJP member and maintained that he has no intention to embarrass the party.

China Expels French Reporter Who Questioned Terrorism
BBC reported that Beijing confirmed it would not renew press credentials for Ursula Gauthier, of the French news magazine L’Obs. It said an article she wrote concerning the unrest in Xinjiang supported “terrorism and brutal actions” that killed individuals.

Azad had sought intervention of the “margdarshak mandal”, comprising Advani, Joshi, Atal Behari Vajpayee, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Rajnath Singh.
According to reports, Senor BJP leader L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Shanta Kumar and Yashwant Sinha who are a part of BJP’s margdarshak mandal will meet Azad a day after he was suspended.
Azad, who has been vocal against Union Fiance Minister Arun Jaitley for the corruption in DDCA which the BJP veteran headed for 13 years, has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene.
“We met. We had tea”, Shanta Kumar said on leaving after the meeting, without giving any details. This, sources said, was the primary reason the group didn’t issue any statement after the meeting. Party insiders feel that the action against Azad is harsh and could have been avoided. “They are our seniors”. The news of Swamy playing counsel to Azad triggered the query if a BJP proxy against Congress in National Herald case could side with a saffron rebel who has accused a top central minister of corruption.
Meanwhile, BJP leader Subramanian Swamy has confirmed to ANI that he would assist Azad in replying to the notice.
Underlining himself as a “loyal soldier of BJP since 1993”, suspended BJP MP Kirti Azad on Friday shot off a letter to party president Amit Shah requesting “proofs” of his anti-party activities so that he can clear those allegations against himself. The veterans will meet Azad and, if need be, convene another meeting to discuss the issue of his suspension.
Sign up for our newsletter and get latest news and updates delivered to your inbox.