2015-10~12
http://www.uyghurcongress.org/en/?p=27263

Uyghurs Celebrating 25 Years of the Existence of the Uyghur Community in Germany » World Uyghur Congress
Press Release – For immediate release
10 November 2015
Contact: World Uyghur Congress www.uyghurcongress.org
0049 (0) 89 5432 1999 or contact@uyghurcongress.org
The World Uyghur Congress (WUC) in cooperation with the East Turkestan Union in Europe (ETUU) and the Uyghur Women’s Association in Germany will mark 25 years of the existence of the Uyghur community in Germany with a cultural celebration including members of the Uyghur and Turkish communities along with German politicians and activists. The events will take place at the Kolpinghaus Convention Center in Munich, on November 14, 2015, to which all those interested in Uyghur culture are kindly invited to attend. Entrance to the event will open at 14:30 with festivities beginning at 17:00.
Uyghurs from 15 countries in Europe as well as Turkey, Central Asia, Japan and Turkey, among others, will be attending alongside members and leaders of the Uyghur community in Germany as well as German politicians and representatives supportive of the Uyghur cause. The events will also act to further inform the public about Uyghurs as well as the situation in East Turkestan today and the causes of Uyghur migration to begin with.
Gifts will be given to the leaders of the East Turkestan Union in Europe (ETUU) in recognition of the work that they have done in relation to the preservation of Uyghur culture and many aspects of the Uyghur way of life. The ETUU was established in 1990 in Munich, the first of its kind in any Western Country. The events are also set to coincide with East Turkestan’s National Day on November 12, in which the  First and Second Republics of East Turkestan were established in 1933 and 1944 respectively.
The commemorations will begin on Saturday, November 14th, as friends of the community and of Uyghur culture have also been cordially invited. The evening will include live music, singing and dancing and will feature music from folk music groups from Europe and Kazakhstan performing.