2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/11/07/police-union-just-threatened-quentin-tarantino/

Police Union Just Threatened Quentin Tarantino | Funs.co
Director Quentin Tarantino has been critical of police using excessive force, and this has incurred backlash from police organizations. The head of the Fraternal Order of Police said he has a “surprise” for Tarantino when his new movie, The Hateful Eight premiers. Cenk Uygur, Ana Kasparian (The Point), Jimmy Dore (The Jimmy Dore Show), and Mark Thompson hosts of The Young Turks discuss.
Do you think this is a threat? What will the FOP do? Let us know in the comments below.
“The head of the Fraternal Order of Police said he has a “surprise” for filmmaker Quentin Tarantino.
Jim Pasco, executive director of the largest U.S. police union, offered the creepy statement Thursday to The Hollywood Reporter, vowing to get back at the “Pulp Fiction” director for comments decrying police brutality at a rally last month.
Pasco wouldn’t give details, but promised the union will “be opportunistic” with the surprise some time before the premiere of Tarantino’s new film, “The Hateful Eight.”
“Something is in the works, but the element of surprise is the most important element,” Pasco said. “Something could happen anytime between now and [the premiere]. And a lot of it is going to be driven by Tarantino, who is nothing if not predictable.”
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.