2015-10~12
http://www.china.org.cn/china/Off_the_Wire/2015-11/24/content_37151061.htm

China Focus: China pushes energy network construction - China.org.cn
In the next five years, northwest
China's Xinjiang region will invest 200 billion yuan (31 billion
U.S. dollars) in building power grids to connect the region to the
country's east, Pakistan and central Asian countries.
Resources-rich Xinjiang Uygur
Autonomous Region, the core area for the Silk Road Economic Belt,
will create power transmission lines by 2020 as it builds the
"Power Silk Road", said a source with the Xinjiang Electric Power
Company under the State Grid Corporation of China.
The grid projects are an important
infrastructure plan for the region, guaranteeing power supply for
local residents and enterprises in Xinjiang, said the company.
Chinese President Xi Jinping told
the UN Sustainable Development Summit in September that China
proposes discussing a global energy network to meet global power
demand with clean and green alternatives.
To build a global energy network
coincides with the trend for low-carbon, efficient and balanced
energy distribution, said Zhao Qingbo, an analyst with the State
Grid.
Rich clean energy like solar and
wind power must be integrated into grids to realize large-scale
development, said Zhao.
Xinjiang's energy network will also
help narrow development gaps between different regions, he
added.
China began to purchase electricity
from Russia in 1992. Currently, Heilongjiang Province in northeast
China has four operating power transmission lines connecting
Russia.
This year, the Heilongjiang
Electric Power Company will import 3.6 billion kilowatt hours of
power from Russia, or 5.4 percent of the power sold in the
province.
"China and Russia both benefit from
the commercial power cooperation," said Li Changlin, deputy general
manger of the Heilongjiang Electric Power Company.
China has mastered core
technologies for ultra-high voltage (UHV) transmission and smart
grids, according to the State Grid.
NE China is planning the
construction of UHV grid to transmit power to the country's eastern
coastal developed areas.
The implementation of the Belt and
Road Initiative will push the interconnection of grids in Asia,
said Liu Xiaosheng, a professor of electric engineering at the
Harbin Institute of Technology in Heilongjiang.
The China-proposed initiative
refers to a trade and infrastructure network connecting Asia to
Europe and Africa through the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st
Century Maritime Silk Road.
Liu Zhenya, president of the State
Grid, said the country will accelerate grid interconnectivity with
neighboring countries such as Russia, Mongolia, Kazakhstan,
Pakistan, Myanmar, Laos, Nepal and Thailand in the coming
decade.
He estimates a global energy
network will be basically completed by 2050.
It is estimated that from 2016 to
2030, China's annual investment in clean energy and related
infrastructure will reach 820 billion yuan, according to Liu.
By the end of 2020, China aims to
increase non-fossil energy to about 15 percent of the total primary
energy consumption and raise the share of renewable energy in
production.
In 2020, China's installed hydro,
wind and solar power capacity will reach 350 million, 240 million
and 100 million kw, mainly in the west and north regions. The
current operating capacity is around 482 million kw in China.
Transnational grids already operate
in Europe, North America and Southern Africa.
Global energy network construction
faces some practical problems such as the high cost of clean energy
in the short run, huge investment and operating models in the
field, according to industry analysts. Endi