2015-10~12
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/policies-politics/article/1892274/photos-lead-suspects-chinas-xinjiang-coal-mine-attack

Photos of lead suspects in China’s Xinjiang coal mine attack released | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Chinese authorities on Sunday published for the first time photos of two lead suspects believed to be behind a September attack in China’s predominantly Muslim region of Xinjiang.
The September 18 attack on a coal mine in Aksu prefecture’s Baicheng county that claimed the lives of 11 civilians and five policemen, was orchestrated by a terrorist group in collaboration with foreign extremists, the official mouthpiece Xinjiang Daily reported in November.
A previous report by the US-based Radio Free Asia said the miners were mostly Han migrant workers.
The official Xinjiang Television Station on Sunday broadcast news footage on the more-than-50-day police operation to hunt down the suspects.
It also posted the pictures of Musa Tohniyaz and Memet Aysatwo, allegedly the masterminds behind the attack. The TV station did not mention the name of the gang nor the whereabouts of the pair.
One attacker turned himself in and the rest had all been shot dead by November 12, according to official reports.
News footage showed police officers and herders searching for the attackers in the mountains. Some policemen were holding rifles and others were riding horses. Villagers were mostly armed with shovels and rakes.
More than 50,000 civilians in the region participated in the “people’s war against terrorism” to hunt the attackers, the report said.
The prefecture’s deputy police chief, Memetjan Tohniyaz, was ambushed and killed by the attackers while protecting herders who were guidinig the search.
The footage also showed one of the attackers, Turghun, who turned himself in. Turghun told Xinjiang TV how he joined the gang.
“They said we needed to fight jihad, and that dying in jihad would take us to heaven. I was given a knife and told, ‘chop and kill these people then you will enter heaven’. Then I killed a man running in front of me,” Turghun said.