2015-10~12
http://samuel-warde.com/2015/10/ann-coulter-booed-heckled/

Ann Coulter Booed, Heckled By Angry Crowd (Video)
Progressive political pundit Cenk Uygur and “combative conservative commentator” Ann Coulter battled it out on Saturday at the inaugural Politicon Conference, a two-day event in Los Angeles billed as a nonpartisan fan fest for politics and entertainment – in short, the Comic-Con of politics.
The heated debate between Uygur, the founder and CEO of The Young Turks, and conservative favorite Ann Coulter, the author of eleven New York Times bestsellers, was billed as One on One: Ann Coulter vs. Cenk Uygur and didn’t disappoint.
Coulter was booed, heckled and had obscenities hurled at her from the audience throughout the debate, particularly when she lashed out at President Barack Obama for “destroying our victory” in Iraq and for suggesting the United States should have used “daisy-cutters”1 and nuclear weapons in Iraq.
The crowd was particularly noisy, erupting after Coulter told Uygur that: “I know this is apparently mostly an audience that doesn’t really care about 9/11.”
Below are a few highlights (or low-points, as you will) from the hour-long discussion.
At 18 minutes, 11 seconds, Uygur asked Coulter about her attacks on 9/11 widows:
Here’s what you said about the 9/11 widows: “They believe the entire country was required to marinate in their exquisite personal agony.” This is about the 9/11 widows. “These broads are millionaires, lionized on TV and in articles about them, reveling in their status as celebrities and stalked by grief-arazzis. I’ve never seen people enjoying their husbands’ deaths so much.”3
Uyger also got into an exchange about Coulter’s remarks about Latinos at 20 minutes, 52 seconds that Coulter tried to turn around as a pitch for her newest book:
On immigration, you said about Latinos: “There’s a cultural acceptance of child [email protected] in Latino culture that doesn’t exist in even the most dysfunctional American ghettoes. When it comes to child [email protected], the whole family gets involved.”4
As the Hollywood Reporter notes: “The most contentious point of the discussion occurred toward the end when an audience member of Afghan heritage berated Coulter for remarks she made about “peasant cultures,” including those from Mexico and the Middle East and for the statements Coulter made concerning being in favor of using nuclear weapons in the Middle East.”
The last big blow-up occurred near the very end of the discussion at 52 minutes, 11 seconds:
FOOTNOTE 1: Daisy-cutter refers to Daisy-Cutter Bombs, described by the University of Notre Dame as:
It is big and destructive. To be exact, the Daisy Cutter bomb weighs in at 15,000 pounds and destroys anything in a 600-yard radius. First used during the Vietnam War, these huge bombs have since been employed in the Gulf War and most recently in Afghanistan. Although the “Daisy Cutter” bomb is not a nuclear weapon, its use in battle has caused controversy because of its terrifying and utterly destructive nature.
The BLU-82B or “Daisy Cutter” is the largest conventional bomb in existence and is 17 feet long and 5 feet in diameter, about the size of a Volkswagen Beetle but much heavier. It contains 12,600 pounds of GX slurry (ammonium nitrate, aluminum powder, and polystyrene), and is so bulky that it cannot even be launched in a conventional method. To put that in context, the ammonium nitrate in just one Daisy Cutter bomb is about six times the amount used in the bombing of the federal building in Oklahoma City. Although the blast from this bomb is extremely lethal, it still has less than a thousandth the destructive power of the atomic bomb used on Hiroshima.
FOOTNOTE 2: Hyperbole refers to an earlier part of the discussion wherein Coulter claimed that most of her outrageous remarks in the past were merely hyperbole designed to make a point. She also admonished her critics, saying they should go back to school and study hyperbole.
FOOTNOTE 3: The quote is from “If Democrats Had Any Brains, The Would Be Republicans” by Ann Coulter.
FOOTNOTE 4: The quote is from an August 5, 2015 column by Coulter.
FOOTNOTE 5: Daesh is “A term used to describe the terrorist organization Islamic State introduced by French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius. The organization went with multiple names in previous occasions like Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) before the public settled with just Islamic State (IS). Fabius argued that since IS is not Islamic and absolutely not a state, he said “…the Arabs call it Daesh…” (from Arabic “to tread upon”, “to trample or crush underfoot”).
The cutthroats from Daesh do not like their new name.”
FOOTNOTE 6: A Wahhabi is a member of a strictly orthodox Sunni Muslim sect founded by Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab (1703–92). It advocates a return to the early Islam of the Koran and Sunna, rejecting later innovations; the sect is still the predominant religious force in Saudi Arabia. Critics say that Wahhabism’s rigidity has led it to misinterpret and distort Islam, pointing to extremists such as Osama bin Laden’s Al Qaeda network and the Taliban. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) also draws on Wahhabism for its ideology.
Please take a moment to like us on Facebook & share this:
Cenk Uygur: "If you want to question people’s gender, we can go down that road." Very nice jab.
Why give this harriden face time? $omebody is raking in the buck$ by letting her on a $tage or $creen. Despicable.
Why would anybody pretend to be a CONservative on T.V. ? My question is why wouldn't they??? It's the absolute best gig anybody could ever have!!! Pretending to be a "Family Values Christian Conservative" gives you a "FREE RIDE" to get away with anything.
You automatically get to play the "Victim Card" just like she did. No matter what you do or say you can hide behind your "Persecution Complex" and claim the world is out to get you. Anybody questions your hate speech and vile propaganda it's the same old B.S., "They hate me because I'm a Conservative. I Love Jesus so their out to get me. We're a Christian Nation...Blah...Blah...Blah".
You're on every T.V. Station Talk Show, Cooking Program or T.V. Preacher Charlatan Network known to man.
Your books no matter how Hateful and Idiotic they might be are automatically a "BEST SELLER" because number one the braying sheep that hang on every vile thing you "Say/Print" will line up to get it and number two the Right Wing Propaganda Machine will buy up a half a million of them to give out as gifts/fund raisers/paper weights if need be to get it on the Best Sellers List. Palins last pre-written birdcage liner had 200,000 copies snatched up by the RNC sitting around trying to find a home for them.
You get to spew hatred of America and anybody that you disagree with without consequences (see the above Persecution Complex.) Spread Lies/Hate about the president all why you claim to be a Christian. What a JOKE!!!
I still say Coultermann is "Ken Melhman" in DRAG!!! Just put a Blonde Wig on this Clown and you've Annie's Twin Sister.
I LOVED it when Bill Maher outed this Clown. I always knew Melhman was a "C*CKSUCKER", I just didn't know he was GAY!!!
Moron. People like you applaud the distruction of this country. I hope Karma runs your whole family over today.
Shaun Robert Milligan What a wonderfu attitude you conservatives have, wishing for people to get injured just because of their political ideals. Go back to one of your conservative sites, troll. There's no place for you here
Shaun Robert Milligan Shaun if you don't like the way the country is running. GET THE FUCK OUT. Move to Iran, hell I'll start a GoFundMe page for your worthless complaining ass.
Shaunie, boy...I hope and pray you don't have kids. Having someone like you raising then (assuming you'd be around for them) would keep them in therapy for years.
Shaun Robert Milligan Lol, you can't spell and you really don't get how Karma works, bitch
Shaun Robert Milligan
Yo Shaunie Boy,
I see you have no actual response to the issues I've raised. Which doesn't surprise me because there's no debating the "FACTS"!!! So in typical "Persecuted CONservative" fashion you run an attack job on me. "How Christian of You"!!!
I expect nothing less from your ilk.
"BTW, "KARMA" has been all over me. That's why I have such a "Wonderful Life"!!! All of that "Rightous Living".
If I were that audience she would of been stoned with many many shoes!!
You lib's would be better off taking the "Plastic Bag" challenge.
Shaun Robert Milligan becareful not to shoot your dick off
No. Liberal morons like you are hateful pieces of shit.
Shaun Robert Milligan just because someone doesn't like her, doesn't mean they MUST be liberal.
Shaun Robert Milligan buddy all the people here, YOU have the anger issue.
If this guy was any kind of man what so ever, he would have grabbed this SKANK in a Headlock. Hiked Up Her Skirt and Whipped Out Her "C*CK" for the whole world to see!!!
She does best when she's on Faux and has a brainwashed audience.
There has got to be something really wrong with people Ann and her followers.
Cenk Uygur, your first mistake was to invite her to an interview. If you ignore her she might possibly go away.
O man im liking ann more and more!!! GET THE FUCK OUTA HERE!
This woman is one of the most narcissistic, hateful, errogant, and monster.
Chink Muslimlover couldn't fight his way out of a wet paper sack. and says all the dumbest shit like "Obama's the best". Fuck Obama, Fuck Cenk and fuck all the lib's.
Took me three lines of dialogue before I realized there's not point in continuing. By measure of Cenk's manner, and the crowd's behavior, Ann won this before walking on the stage.
Sorry,she won nothing at all. . Ann Coulter is a spiteful, hateful pig. Nothing more.
There was never, ever any "victory" in Iraq or Afghanistan! WTF is she talking about? And Cenk, she said it a number of times. Ya let her slide on that one.

 Designed by WynnWoods Solutions Powered by Liberals Unite - 
 Designed by WynnWoods Solutions
 
 

