2015-10~12
http://www.navhindtimes.in/china-seeks-global-support-against-uyghur-militants/

China seeks global support against Uyghur militants | The Navhind Times
Beijing: After blocking India’s efforts for UN action against Pakistan following its release of Mumbai attack mastermind Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, China itself today sought global support against Uyghur militants in Xinjiang saying there should be no “double standards” in the fight against terrorism in the aftermath of the Paris attacks.
“The East Turkestan terrorist forces with ETIM (East Turkestan Islamic Movement) as representative has conducted a series of attacks in China, which caused heavy casualties,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said to a query on China’s calls for global action against Uyghur militants some of whom have joined the Islamic State (IS) in Syria.
“The damage caused by them is evident. Around the world ETIM force caused grave threat and we have introduced  to the countries in the world about the damage caused by them and provided specific and clear evidence and facts.
“We hope that international community will understand China’s security concerns and designate the fight against ETIM as part of international anti terrorism campaign,” he said.
Asked whether China had provided any proof, Hong said, “the evidence is very rich and in great detail”.
“We should not adopt double standards against terrorism. In the fighting against terrorism we should give a coordinating role of the UN and stay united on the country terrorism front,” he said.
China blames the ETIM, an al-Qaeda-backed outfit for a spate of violent attacks in Xinjiang and the rest of the country, while overseas representatives of Uyghur Muslims accuse China of violently suppressing the community’s protests against the increasing settlements of Han Chinese.
“In recent years east Turkestan terrorism forces with ETIM posed a great threat not only to China but also international the community. To fight against ETIM has become part and parcel of fight against international terrorism,” Hong said.