2015-10~12
http://www.dawn.com/news/1222400

Civil-military talks with Afghanistan urged - Pakistan - DAWN.COM
ISLAMABAD: The president of Awami National Party, Asfandyar Wali Khan, has proposed a joint meeting of civilian and military leaders of Pakistan and Afghanistan to end the “existing trust deficit” between the two countries.
“The prime minister, the army chief and the Afghan president and their army chief are the four persons who can restore the trust, if they all sit together,” he said at a news conference after a meeting with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif here on Wednesday.
“Everyone knows where the real power lies in Pakistan,” he said in an apparent reference to the military establishment. The issues between the two countries could not be resolved merely by sending the Prime Minister’s Adviser Sartaj Aziz to Afghanistan, he added.
The ANP chief said he would be in a delegation going to Afghanistan on Thursday at the invitation of the Afghan government.
Besides him, the delegation will comprise Mehmood Khan Achakzai, Afrasiab Khattak, Aftab Sherpao, Shaukatullah Khan, Sikandar Sherpao and Ayaz Khan Wazir.
The ANP leader said he had discussed matters relating to the visit with the prime minister, adding that the agenda for the meeting was open.
When Afghan President Ashraf Ghani visited Pakistan, he said, things appeared to be heading towards normalisation and the two countries coming closer to each other. The Afghan president, he said, had also visited the army’s General Headquarters in Rawalpindi. But all of a sudden a gap appeared to be developing and since then they have been unable to end the trust deficit.
He said the United States, China and Nato could play an important role in resolving the issues between the two countries, “but resumption (of ties) should be at the highest level”.
The ANP chief who was accompanied by his party’s leaders Ghulam Ahmed Bilour, Shahi Syed, Mian Iftikhar Hussain, Bushra Gohar and Sitara Ayaz said he had also discussed with the prime minister matters relating to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).
He claimed that the prime minister had accepted his demand for converting the single-lane western highway into a motorway and issued directives in this regard to the National Highway Authority.
The prime minister, he said, had assured him that he would provide details about industrial zones to be set up as part of the CPEC project after his forthcoming visits to France and the United Kingdom.
He called for speeding up the process of industrialisation in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, Balochistan and Sindh to solve the problems of the people of the regions.
Mr Khan said that he had told Mr Sharif that China had resolved the issues in Xinjiang and Tibet through rapid industrialisation.
He also said that he had felicitated PPP Co-Chairman Asif Zardari on his acquittal by an accountability court in the SGS and Cotecna corruption references.
When ANP was heading the KPK government, you Mr Asfandyar had run away from the country and was busy doing business in Malaysia, with the looted wealth of KPK. Now when the PTI government has brought peace in KPK you seem to be giving a lot of advises and suggestions.

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
