2015-10~12
http://www.australiannews.net/index.php/sid/238759493

Australian News - China Says Kills 28 Suspects in Xinjiang Coal Mine Attack After 56-day Manhunt

The Xinjiang regional government's Tianshan web portal, in a posting that included photos of armed police dressed in black patrolling against the backdrop of a mountainous, snowy landscape, said the slain group had committed "a violent terrorist attack under the direct command of an overseas extremist organization."


Repeating a report that appeared briefly on China's Ministry of Public Security announced on Nov. 14 before it was removed, Tianshan said the 28 were killed and one person surrendered, during a 56-day manhunt.

The manhunt was launched following a Sept. 18 attack at the Sogan Colliery in Aksu (in Chinese, Akesu) prefecture's Bay (Baicheng) county, RFA's Uyghur Service reported shortly after that incident.


The Tianshan report, the first official confirmation of both the attack on the mine and the police response, put the number of dead in the coalmine attack at 16, including three police officers and two police assistants, with 18 injured.

Local sources told RFA, however, that as many as 50 people were killed in Sept. 18 attack, which was not reported in Chinese media.

According to the local sources, a group of knife-wielding suspects set upon security guards at the gate of the mine in Terek township before targeting the owner's residence and a dormitory for workers.

When police arrived at the mine to control the situation, the attackers rammed their vehicles using trucks loaded down with coal, sources told RFA at the time.

Friday's official report identified Musa Toxtiniyaz and Memet Eysa as ring leaders of the colliery attack. In comments to RFA in mid-October, local sources listed those two men and a Tursun Jume as top suspects, along with their families and said the suspects were traveling with women and children, including a one-year-old baby.

On Tuesday, police officers from Bay county confirmed to RFA that "all of the terrorists," including the seven women and children, had been killed in a raid.

Ghalip Memet, a police officer in Terek township, told RFA that authorities had set off an explosion to kill the suspects in a cave where they lay in hiding.


The Tianshan website did not address the question of whether women and children were among the 28 suspects killed.

Asked by RFA's Cantonese service on Friday about the presence of women and children, local security authorities declined to comment. Despite repeated calls to Bay county authorities, officials said only that the case had been solved.

Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Johannesburg -Three foundations have called on the ANC's National Executive Committee (NEC) to take decisive responsibility by implementing urgent "corrective" actions in the interests of all South ...
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Melbourne - Formula One's existing safety measures saved Fernando Alonso's life in ...
Sydney - Environmental groups on Monday urged greater action on climate change after the Australian government declared the highest alert level over an epidemic of coral bleaching in the pristine ...
Indian Wells - World No 1 Novak Djokovic won the Indian Wells title on Sunday with a 6-2, 6-0 rout of a hobbled Milos Raonic, taking the crown for the third straight year and a record fifth time ...
Cape Town - South Africa may have to significantly restructure their team if JP Duminy is declared unfit for their key ICC World Twenty20 match against in-form West Indies at Nagpur on Friday (16:00 ...
Sydney - Australian authorities said on Sunday coral bleaching occurring in the World Heritage-listed Great Barrier Reef had become "severe", the highest alert level, as sea temperatures ...
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Melbourne - Formula One will revert to the old system of qualifying for next ...
Paris - England, led by bullocking No 8 Billy Vunipola, confirmed their remarkable transformation from World Cup flops to Six Nations Grand Slam winners when they beat France 31-21 on Saturday.
The ...
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA--(Marketwired - Mar 21, 2016) - Adoption of people-based advertising in Australia is rising quickly as advertisers experience superior performance and return on ad spend from ...
Indian Wells (US), March 21 (IANS) Tennis World No.1 Novak Djokovic believes that male tennis players should earn more money than their female counterparts, considering the fact that more people ...
Canberra, March 21 (IANS) Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull on Monday announded the country will hold an early election in July if the Senate fails to pass laws aimed at curbing union ...
Canberra, March 20 (IANS) Queensland's political system is set for its biggest shake-up in the decades as a referendum for fixed four-year parliamentary terms looks likely to succeed. On Sunday, ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 20 (IANS) Malaysian officials said on Sunday that two pieces of suspected debris of the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 have arrived in Australia for verification. Both ...
Los Angeles, March 20 (IANS) Rapper Iggy Azalea has revealed she considered driving off a cliff to end her life last year after the backlash she received over her career pushed her into a dark zone ...
Bengaluru, March 21 (IANS) Australia beat Bangladesh in the third match of the World Twenty20's Super 10 stage on Monday at the Chinnaswami Stadium, chasing down a 157 run target with three wickets ...
Bengaluru, March 21 (IANS) Bangladesh piled up a score of 156/5 in 20 overs against Australia in the group stage Super 10 match at the World Twenty20 here on Monday. Mahmudullah top scored with a ...
Melbourne, March 21 (IANS) Two-time Formula One world champion Fernando Alonso has admitted he is lucky to be alive after a high-speed crash that forced race officials to momentarily stop the ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Following his maiden win in the Indian Open last weekend, S.S.P. Chawrasia made a jump of 92 places to be 151st in the latest global golf rankings released on Monday. The ...
Melbourne, March 21 (IANS) Reigning Formula 1 champion Lewis Hamilton of team Mercedes said he is expecting a closer fight with team Ferrari in the forthcoming season and has downplayed the ...
Bengaluru, March 20 (IANS) Bangladesh coach Chandika Hathurusingha thinks Mushfiqur Rahim's mindset is getting in his way of returning to form. It has not been long since Mushfiqur was Bangladesh's ...
Australian News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Free-spirited Australia - a continent offering endless holiday experiences. Explore the colours of the outback, the excitement of the cities and a range of natural wonders you won't find anywhere else. The pearly sails of the Sydney Opera House, jutting out to jewel-blue water and over-reached by the intricate Sydney Harbour Bridge has made Sydney Harbour one of the world's most recognisable images.
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by temporarily easing trade sanctions slapped earlier this month against the Chinese telecom equipment and smartphone maker ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at the state-owned coal and steel companies into low paying jobs. Miners that ...
WASHINGTON - Bernie Sanders, lagging behind Hillary Clinton in the Democratic presidential race, scored a resounding win over his rival in the Democrats Abroad global primary. The group Democrats ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
PRETORIA, South Africa South Africa's ruling party, the African National Congress, on Sunday said it had full confidence in President Jacob Zuma in the wake of mounting allegations of political ...
LONDON – There are “clear downside risks” to the country if Britain left the European Union, ratings agency Moody’s said on Tuesday, warning that the exit from the bloc would also lead to ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
© 1999 - 2016 Australian News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)