2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/11/03/was-turkey-election-rigged/

Was Turkey Election Rigged? | Funs.co
Turkey just had elections, and we have surprising results. Despite consistently polling behind leading up to the election, the incumbent won a miraculous victory. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“In June, Turkey’s leftists rejoiced. The controversial, conservative religious party that ruled Turkey for 13 years was pulled from power by a left-wing underdog. History was made.
But now, less than five months later, the Justice and Development Party (AKP) has made an unexpected electoral comeback after Sunday’s snap parliamentary election, with the pro-Kurdish Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) pushed to the sidelines, leaving minorities, secularists and government critics reeling.
It’s a blow left-wing voters like 26-year-old Idil did not see coming.”*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.