2015-10~12
http://www.in.com/news/current-affairs/chinas-trying-to-suppress-information-about-a-massacre-that-killed-50-people-say-reports-53316494-in-1.html

China's trying to suppress information about a massacre that killed 50 people, say reports

 A horrific tragedy struck China on 18 September.On that day, alleged separatists carrying knives entered a coal mine in northwestern China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region and killed at least 50 people, including five police officers, and injured 50 others, Radio Free Asia had reported.Some workers were sleeping while others were preparing to work when the attackers raided the building after killing the security guards, Ekber Hashim, a police officer inspecting the mine's dormitory after the incident, had told RFA. He had also said that nearly all the workers who were not on shift at the time were killed or injured.However, what is even more disturbing is that China seems to be trying its best to keep this entire incident a secret and suppress any information about the same from being made public.The damage of the attack was very severe that is why we are controlling [the flow of] information about the incident so strictly, lest we frighten Han migrants in Aksu, a source told RFA on condition of anonymity.Around 90 percent of the workers in the coal mine which was attacked were Han Chinese. And according to another report in The New York Times, the wanted posters released after the incident suggest that the attackers were ethnic Uyghurs. Moreover, the attack had taken place during the day of national celebrations in China to mark the 60th anniversary of the establishment of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.To avoid the spread of news of this attack which seems to be communal, the Chinese news media allegedly did not report on the massacre. The NYTimes report added that local officials have even denied that the incident took place.The Guardian also reported on the reluctance of Chinese officials to talk about the incident. "Reuters was unable to reach officials for comment. Such incidents are frequently reported in overseas media but not confirmed by the Chinese government until days later, if ever," the report said.
New Myanmar president Htin Kyaw to keep Suu Kyi in his cabinet

Naypyitaw: Myanmar's new president has proposed appointing 18 ministers in his Cabinet, including his party leader Aung San Suu Kyi.President-elect Htin Kyaw submitted the list to the parliament on Tu...
Not since the dinosaurs: Carbon emissions highest in 66 million years

Oslo: The rate of carbon emissions is higher than at any time in fossil records stretching back 66 million years to the age of the dinosaurs, according to a study on Monday that sounds an alarm about ...
First aid on my plate: Rajasthan govt will equip highway dhabas to provide medical treatment to accident victims

Jaipur:The Rajasthan government will train roadside dhaba staff and ensurefirst aid medicines are available atnational and state highways to helpthose injuredin accidents receivetimely treatment.Rajas...
Donald Trump faces challenge in Utah vote but could net delegates; Hillary likely to extend lead

Washington:Donald Trump faces a tough challenge in Utah's caucuses on Tuesday, but the Republican front-runner could still gain some delegates if sharp party divisions prevent anyone from winning a ma...
We believe in Cuban people, says Obama; the president vows to help entrepreneurs, improve internet access

Havana: US president Barack Obama has vowed to help Cuban entrepreneurs prosper and said that he will continue working to adopt changes that would improve and increase access to internet on the island...
Not so Swachh Bharat: Indians most deprived of access to clean water

New Delhi: A report says India has the world's highest number of people without access to clean water.The international charity Water Aid says 75.8 million Indians or 5 percent of the country's 1.25 ...
Seoul: South Korea on Tuesday reported the country's first case of the Zika virus, a mosquito-borne disease that has been linked to birth defects and other health issues.A 43-year-old man who recently...