2015-10~12
http://www.dawn.com/news/1225255/gen-raheel-meets-afghan-president-assures-support-against-terrorism

Gen Raheel meets Afghan president, assures support against terrorism - Pakistan - DAWN.COM
RAWALPINDI: Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Raheel Sharif on Wednesday met Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, who was here to attend the Heart of Asia Conference, DawnNews reported.
According to Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), General Raheel assured the Afghan president of full support in intelligence sharing, operational coordination and reconciliation process for bringing peace and stability in Afghanistan.
Related: Ghani thunders, Swaraj diplomatic at 'Heart of Asia' conference in capital
The Afghan president, while emphasising on the need of enhancing bilateral relations between both the countries, vowed to work together to eliminate the common threat of terrorism.
"We are committed to work together with Afghanistan on the basis of mutual interest and respect. We should pursue a strategic relationship that is enduring and enhances the security and concomitant prosperity of both brotherly countries," the army chief was quoted as saying.
Ghani, on the other hand, acknowledged the successes achieved by Pakistan's armed forces in war against terrorism.
In his speech at Heart of Asia Conference, the Afghan President had lauded Pakistan's decision to launch operation against militancy, but said the action had created unintended consequences bringing about the displacement of a significant number of militant groups on Afghan soil.
Earlier in the day, German Defence Minister, Ursula Von der Leyen and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi also met the army chief at GHQ.
A smartly turned out contingent of Pakistan Army presented the guard of honour to the visiting dignitary on their arrival.



German Defence Minister, Ursula Von der Leyen meeting General Raheel Sharif



The German minister discussed a wide range of issues including defence cooperation, regional security and emerging geo-strategic environment.
Ursula Leyen appreciated the phenomenal successes of Operation Zarb-i-Azb and paid rich tributes to the martyrs of Pakistani security forces.
The Chinese minister Wang Yi appreciated progress of an effective, across the board anti-terror operation, Operation Zarb-i-Azb by Pakistan Army which helped eliminate ETIM (East Turkestan Islamic Movement) just as it eliminated elements of all other terrorist groups based in the area.
Back in October, Defence Minister Khawaja Asif also claimed that Pakistan has eliminated all members of the Uighur militant group the ETIM from its territory.
China blames ETIM for carrying out attacks in its far western region of Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people, although many foreign experts doubt the group's existence in a cohesive group.
Also Read: Pakistan spent $1.9bn on Zarb-i-Azb, TDPs' return from own resources: FO
best way to keep india out of afghanistan is to ensure pak army changes the status quo of power sharing that exists now. ashraf ghani must not be allowed to fall under control of new delhi.
Kandahar attack was meant to ruin Ghani's trip to Pakistan.
Afghanistan needs Pak more than any other county so ghani should cooperate with Pak for durable peace.
@Fast 
I think Pakistan needs Afghanistan equally if not less. Afghanistan is a gateway to Europe and Russia. So, stop the blaming game and be realistic and become good neghibour.
India and Afghanistan is a different type of relationship that spans many centuries. Afghanistan is looking for India for it's own development in many areas be it HealthCare, Infrastructure, power, education, political educations and more. And India is deeply entrenched in its development.
India is the outsider when relations between Pakistan and Afghanistan are under consideration. India wants to be the regional bully. Its time is over. Pakistan does not need India for anything. Afghanistan needs Pakistan so it should reject all back door activities by India from Afghan soil against Pakistan. Otherwise Pakistan should even dump Afghanistan and get on with its progressive trajectory.
Afganistan looks to India fir development education progress and looks towards Pakistan through the prism of terrorism.

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
