2015-10~12
http://america.aljazeera.com/articles/2015/12/26/journalist-to-be-forced-out-of-china-after-writing-about-ethnic-minority.html

Journalist Forced Out of China | Al Jazeera America
The browser or device you are using is out of date. It has known security flaws and a limited feature set. You will not see all the features of some websites. Please update your browser. A list of the most popular browsers can be found below.
China said Saturday that it will not renew press credentials for a French journalist, effectively expelling her following a harsh media campaign against her for questioning the official line equating ethnic violence in China's western Muslim region with global "terrorism."
Expecting the move, Ursula Gauthier, a longtime journalist for the French news magazine L'Obs, said late Friday night that she was prepared to leave China.
Once she departs on Dec. 31, she will become the first foreign journalist forced to leave China since 2012, when American Melissa Chan, then working for Al Jazeera in Beijing, was expelled.
"They want a public apology for things that I have not written," Gauthier said. "They are accusing me of writing things that I have not written."
Her essay "flagrantly championed acts of terrorism and acts of cruelly killing innocents, triggering the Chinese people’s outrage," said the foreign ministry statement.
Citing her failure to make a "serious apology to the Chinese people", the statement said: "It is not suitable for her to continue working in China."
"China will never support the freedom to champion terrorism," it added.
But people expressed confusion over their own purported indignation, as most had not read or even heard of Gauthier's article, which has no Chinese-language version and remains inaccessible on the mainland's censored Internet in its original French.
"'Triggered the Chinese people's outrage'? Don't presume to represent me – I don't even know what happened!" wrote one user on China's Twitter-like Weibo platform.
"You should put out the original article for everyone to see – otherwise how can everyone be angry?" asked another.
Entitled, "After the attacks (on Paris), Chinese solidarity is not without ulterior motives," Gauthier's article spoke of China's anti-terrorism policies in the country's western region of Xinjiang, homeland of the Muslim Uighur ethnic minority — many of whom complain of discrimination and controls on their culture and religion.
Xinjiang is often hit by deadly unrest, and China blames the violence on separatists, but rights groups point to Beijing's own actions as a driver.
If Gauthier's press card is not renewed, she cannot apply for a new visa, forcing her to leave China.
"They confirmed that if I did not make a public apology on all the points that had 'hurt the Chinese people'... my press card would not be renewed and I would have to leave on December 31," Gauthier told Agence France Presse on Friday.
The move has been met with widespread criticism from the French government, press watchdog Reporters Without Borders and Gauthier's employer.
"France will remain committed to the defence of freedom of expression and information throughout the world," wrote French minister of culture and communication Fleur Pellerin Friday on Twitter in response to the news.
Gauthier's article in L'Obs triggered condemnation from Beijing and a virulent campaign in the state-run Global Times and China Daily, as well as thousands of often violent and abusive comments from Chinese Internet users. Her photo was also published online.
While the domestic media in China is subject to strict control and many topics are taboo, the foreign media is free to publish on any topic. However, foreign journalists frequently complain of harassment by the authorities while conducting routine reporting.
The UN and human rights groups are concerned that members of the Turkic-speaking Muslim minority will be persecuted
Hundreds of protesters in Turkey marched on the Chinese consulate in Istanbul over the weekend
It’s erroneous to portray the conflict in Xinjiang as a struggle between Islam and the Chinese government
Sorry, your comment was not saved due to a technical problem. Please try again later or using a different browser.
Yoga used to help kids cope with violence in Chicago