2015-10~12
http://www.wortfm.org/uighur-tensions-still-high-in-chinas-xinjiang-region/

Uighur tensions still high in China's Xinjiang region - WORT 89.9 FM
Minneapolis band Battlerat plays their song "Trouble" live At The Stacks for the show Who Cooks For You! … [Read More...]
WORT 89.9 FM presents Madison-based singer and songwriter Dana Perry performing live "At the Stacks." Recorded for Live … [Read More...]
Owls, Foxes and Sebastian were recently guests of WORT's One Fine Morning with PC Allen. The local band's lead vocalist … [Read More...]
WORT 89.9 FM presents Anna Vogelzang performing live "At the Stacks." Recorded November 9, 2015. Played on the air for … [Read More...]
How do I find out about concerts? How do I get more details about something I heard over the air? How do I submit events to WORT’s Music Calendars? Who do I contact with changes or cancellations?
WORT’s Music Calendars are a great resource to find out about concerts in all genres and places. Usually you’ll find details in the online listing or links to get more information. There’s a link to to submit your event at the top of the calendar page. You can also submit events, changes and cancellations to calendar@wortfm.org.
Music Director: Sybil Augustine – musicdirector@wortfm.org (for music submissions, charts and tracking, promotional exchanges for music events and following up on volunteer applications or other requests. Please include specifics in your subject line, such as “Hiphop Music Submission” etc, )
Music Assistant: Aaron Scholz – musicass@wortfm.org (for record donations and sales, promos recording volunteers, etc.)
Music Calendars: Submit your events online here or send by email to calendar@wortfm.org
We accept submissions in most genres and styles of music, focusing on noncommercial, out-of-the-mainstream, independent releases (check out our playlists and music charts for more information.) It may take up to a few weeks for us to review and process the music. We currently still prefer CDs to digital submissions because it’s the quickest way to get it into the hands of our programmers and onto the airwaves, though we do have a growing digital library. Please send your music (full-length CD or vinyl preferred) including a one-sheet description and any biographical and tour information to WORT Music Director, 118 S. Bedford St, Madison, WI 53703 and/or to musicdirector@wortfm.org.
You can follow up or “track” your submissions by email, or call 608-256-2001 on Wednesdays between 1-4 pm CST to ask if we received it, has it been reviewed, has it been added to our library, and what kind of airplay it’s getting—e.g. light, medium, heavy or charting. Thanks and we look forward to hearing your music!
What was that song I heard? Who was the artist, what is the album title, where can I get it? Where can I find the entire playlist for a show?
Click on the Playlists button to bring up a calendar where you can choose any date to find the playlists for that day. If you can’t find the right playlist or the song you’re looking for, your best bet is to call the station the next time that program’s on and ask the host yourself. If that’s not possible we may be able to help you, but please have as much information as possible at hand when you contact us, such as: approximate day and time the music was played, what type or genre of music it was, who hosted the show and any other information you remember about the selection and we’ll do our best to track it down.
Once you figure it out, there’s a “Buy It!” link next to each track in online playlists that leads you to a place where you can buy songs and albums, and by doing it that way a small portion of each purchase goes to support WORT.
This Is What I Ate rates the Street Fare on offer for the Chef Week Grande Finale at Graze and L'Etoile, Sunday Funday! … [Read More...]
(WORT) -- This week we cover the legacy of Tamara Grigsby, the pivotal school referendum vote in Montello, final … [Read More...]
(WORT) — Mike McCabe with Blue Jean Nation has this commentary on our campaign system's addiction to television. … [Read More...]
Nora Díaz Chávez entrevistó a la artista Laura Anderson Barbata en su reciente visita a Madison para converser acerca de … [Read More...]
Today on A Public Affair, Patty Peltekos talks with Kermit Hovey and Marybeth Elliot from 350 Madison, a grassroots … [Read More...]
Barack Obama in Cuba at start of historic visit
21 March 2016From the section Latin … [Read More...]
Paris attacks: Suspect's 'accomplice' named as Najim Laachraoui
21 March 2016From … [Read More...]
Novak Djokovic questions equal prize money in tennis
21 March 2016From the section … [Read More...]
(WORT) -- Two days before Christmas, after most students had already left campus for break, a special task force of … [Read More...]
(WORT) -- Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker delivered the annual State of the State address this week.The Governor was … [Read More...]
UPDATE, January 8: Dane County Clerk Scott McDonell confirmed Friday afternoon that Rob Dz will be on the ballot in the … [Read More...]
Today Esty Dinur talks with Nick Holdstock, author of “China’s Forgotten People: Xinjiang, Terror and the Chinese State.” His book analyzes terror attacks in Xinjiang that occurred over the past few years, and shows how the story of the Uighurs is one of repression, hardship and helplessness in the face of a powerful and intolerant Chinese state.
Nick Holdstock is a journalist and writer. He writes on China for the London Review of Books and his writing can be found in Vice, The LA Review of Books, n+1, The Independent, The Dublin Review, Times Literary Supplement, the Edinburgh Review and Salon.com amongst others.
A Public Affair APA, China's Forgotten People, Esty Dinur, Nick Holdstock, Uighurs, WORT, Xinjiang
A Public Affair is WORT's daily hour-long talk program. It aims to engage listeners in a conversation on social, cultural, and political issues of importance. The guests range from local activists and scholars to notable national and international figures.
© 2016 Back Porch Broadcasting, Inc. · All Rights Reserved