2015-10~12
http://www.lidtime.com/danish-embassy-in-beijing-warns-its-citizens-of-threats-8002/

Danish embassy in Beijing warns its citizens of threats - LidTime.com
China’s state-run news agency says Beijing police have put all medium- to large-sized malls and supermarkets under a yellow security alert, with plans for a greater police presence and all public trash bins being checked every 30 minutes.

China Expels French Reporter Who Questioned Terrorism
BBC reported that Beijing confirmed it would not renew press credentials for Ursula Gauthier, of the French news magazine L’Obs. It said an article she wrote concerning the unrest in Xinjiang supported “terrorism and brutal actions” that killed individuals.

The French embassy in Beijing said it had received information from its American counterparts and urged “utmost vigilance” to its citizens.

Russia, Qatar reach agreement how to encourage talks between Syrian govt, opposition
Media reports quoted him before the visit as saying he wanted to open a representative office for his party in Moscow. Turkey and Russian Federation , which were previously close economic partners, are at odds over Syria .

The French and Australian embassies have also sent out similar warnings.

US Defense Chief Visits Iraq to Assess IS Fight
After Carter announced the new special operations force, Shi’ite militias pledged to fight any such USA deployment. The recent focus has been the battle in Ramadi, the capital of Anbar province, which IS militants took in May.

Yang Shu, a counter-terrorism expert at Lanzhou University in northwest China, said the threat’s high profile and focus on Westerners could mark a first for Beijing.
Beijing police tightened security around a bar and shopping area popular with foreigners on Thursday as embassies issued warnings for their citizens to be on guard against possible threats against Westerners.
A Christmas-time threat targeting Westerners in Beijing led to heightened security Thursday in a tourist-friendly area of the Chinese capital. The UK Embassy has issued the same guidance to British Government Staff.
The government blamed that incident on Islamist militants from China’s unruly far western region of Xinjiang, where hundreds have died in unrest in recent years.
Beijing authorities have issued a yellow security alert – the lowest on a three-tier system – to last through Christmas weekend, according to a statement by the city government’s media office. Camouflage-clad paramilitary police were deployed in Sanlitun and other areas across the city. Christmas is not an official holiday in China.
Sign up for our newsletter and get latest news and updates delivered to your inbox.