2015-10~12
http://farandulife.com/2015/12/china-seeks-apology-from-french-journalist-over-xinjiang/

China seeks apology from French journalist over Xinjiang article
The Chinese Foreign Ministry said in a written statement Saturday that the Beijing correspondent for French news magazine L'Obs would not be issued press credentials for 2016, effectively expelling her.
Gauthier's article says some violent attacks involving Xinjiang's Uighur community appear to have been homegrown, with little evidence of ties to global terrorism.
On Gauthier's expulsion, Chan tweeted, "Gauthier was told she could stay in China if she publicly apologized for... yep, you guess it: hurting the feelings of the Chinese people".
Gauthier, a veteran journalist, has been in Beijing's crosshairs since November, when she wrote an essay about China's response to the Nov. 13 attacks in Paris.
Ursula Gauthier criticized the government's rhetoric on global terrorism. "If it was true that I was supporting terrorism, they should indict me, not expel me, it's a crime".
Gauthier denied the accusations, saying she has the impression that no one inside the ministry has read her article.
China didn't like Ursula Gauthier's reporting - so they are kicking her out of the country.
"Provided in that Gauthier did not make a critical apology to the Chinese language people for her wrongful speech advocating for terrorism acts, it's not applicable for her to continue working in China".
"The new law comes at a delicate time for China and for the world at large - terror attacks in Paris, the bombing of a Russian passenger jet over Egypt, and killings of hostages committed by Islamic State (IS) extremist group are alerting the world about an ever-growing threat of terrorism", it said.
This is the first expulsion of a foreign correspondent in China since 2012, when the China correspondent of Al Jazeera was forced out of the country.
Speaking after China's largely rubber-stamp parliament passed the law, Li Shouwei, deputy head of the parliament's criminal law division under the legislative affairs committee, said China was simply doing what other Western nations already do in asking technology firms to help fight terror.
"By falsely describing certain ethnic groups in Xinjiang as the oppressed, the article may also incite hatred and confrontation between different ethnic groups in China". He wants her to apologise for her words.
Last month, China fired and promised charges against the editor-in-chief of the Xinjiang Daily, the Communist Party's largest publication.
"It provoked the strong indignation of the Chinese public", Hua Chunying, a foreign ministry spokesperson, said at a regular press briefing in early December.
According to an English translation of Gauthier's original report published by China Digital Times, the French journalist stated that even though the Xinjiang attack had been bloody, it "had nothing in common" with the Paris attacks.
It said an article she wrote concerning the unrest in Xinjiang supported "terrorism and brutal actions" that killed individuals.
The French government, through its foreign ministry, issued a statement yesterday in which it deplored the Chinese authorities' government.

Panthers' Marcus Ball denies threatening Odell Beckham Jr. with bat 


'Jose Mourinho is not true to his own playing style' 


Company Shares of DTE Energy Company (NYSE:DTE) Rally 1.27% 


Iraqi commander says no progress yet in IS-held Ramadi 


Brasil aprueba uso de la primera vacuna contra el dengue 


NASA Calls off Next Mars Mission for at Least 26 Months 
