2015-10~12
http://asean-community.com/2015/11/27/thailand-blames-uighur-militants-for-bombing-at-bangkok-shrine/

Thailand Blames Uighur Militants for Bombing at Bangkok Shrine | ASEAN Community
BANGKOK — Almost a month after the deadliest bombing in recent Thai history, Thailand’s nationwide police chief made his most specific feedback on Tuesday about who carried out the assault right here and why.
The perpetrators, he stated, have been linked to Uighur militants, radical members of an aggrieved ethnic minority in western China, who struck to avenge Thailand’s forced repatriation of Uighurs to China and Thailand’s dismantling of a human smuggling ring.
If true, the bombing — which killed 20 individuals, most of them ethnic Chinese language vacationers — can be the primary recognized Uighur terrorist assault outdoors China, a improvement that would have safety implications for China and its residents worldwide.
However many questions stay unanswered concerning the assault, for which nobody has claimed duty.
Suspicion fell on Uighur militants virtually instantly after the bombing, which occurred simply weeks after Thailand despatched 109 Uighurs again to China, their heads coated in hoods, a transfer extensively criticized by overseas governments and activists who stated the Uighurs have been more likely to face persecution there.
Two weeks in the past, the Thai police arrested a suspect with a Chinese passport indicating that he was from Xinjiang, the northwestern area in China that’s house to Uighurs. Several other suspects are Turks, who share linguistic and cultural traits with the Uighurs. Some Turkish nationalists have embraced the Uighur trigger.
But when Uighur militants have been accountable, the bombing can be a departure from earlier assaults attributed to them, which have been carried out with knives.
The bomb, which exploded Aug. 17 on the Erawan Shrine through the night rush hour in a busy buying district, appeared meant to trigger most carnage. It was positioned beneath a bench subsequent to the shrine, which is well-liked with overseas vacationers, particularly ethnic Chinese language.
Such bombs are extra widespread in conflict-torn nations within the Center East than in China, suggesting that if Uighurs have been behind the assault, they could have had assist from allies extra versed in bomb-making.
Talking at a information briefing, Gen. Somyot Poompanmoung, Thailand’s chief of police, stated the bombing had been carried out by a human trafficking community that “moved Uighurs from one place to a different.”
Calling the bombing retaliation for the dismantling of the trafficking enterprise and for the repatriation, he stated, “Put merely, we destroyed their enterprise.”
Usually, the Thai authorities, involved about their profitable tourism business, have been lower than forthcoming concerning the case, at one level directing officers to not use the phrases Uighur or terrorism whereas discussing the investigation.
The police rationalization of the motive has already been extensively challenged. Whereas the native information media and others have lengthy suspected that the bombing may need been payback for the repatriations, Thai information retailers have expressed skepticism over the suggestion that it was tied to the crackdown on human trafficking. One Thai newspaper referred to as the declare “unreasonable” as a result of, if it have been true, there would have been a extra intensive crackdown on traffickers after the bombing.
The police rationalization matches a sample of obfuscation and restraint concerning the case by not solely officers in Thailand, but in addition these in China and Turkey.
Because the army seized power in a coup final yr, drawing criticism from the West, Thailand has appeared to maneuver nearer to China. Thailand’s leaders are cautious of disturbing its relationship with China, the supply of hundreds of thousands of vacationers and the nation’s largest commerce associate.
On Monday, Col. Winthai Suvaree, the spokesman for Thailand’s army authorities, warned the Thai information media to keep away from evaluation of the assault which may have an effect on “worldwide relationships,” a remark that many interpreted to imply China.
However Thailand has made it clear that the Uighurs have been repatriated at China’s request, a choice Thailand appears unlikely to repeat anytime quickly.
China has been oddly silent, deferring to the Thai police.
Requested concerning the case at a information convention on Tuesday, a Chinese language Overseas Ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, stated solely: “The case continues to be beneath investigation. I don’t have extra info for you in the meanwhile.”
China has for many years maintained that there isn’t any ethnic battle inside Chinese language borders and that any acts of violence involving Tibetans, Uighurs or different ethnic minorities are carried out by a couple of disaffected people who’ve been led astray by outdoors forces.
Turkey has been more and more concerned within the Uighur situation in recent times and is house to an estimated 20,000 Uighurs. Hours after the Thai authorities repatriated the Uighurs in early July, indignant mobs of nationalist Turks and Uighurs attacked Thailand’s consulate in Istanbul.
On Tuesday, the Thai police chief linked the assault on the consulate with the Bangkok bombing, saying each episodes have been pushed by “the identical motive.”
The remark was the primary time the police had tied the bombing to the repatriation.
Turkey additionally has taken an arms-size strategy to the case.
Some Thai officers have stated that a Chinese language nationwide now in Turkey, Abudureheman Abudusataer, might have masterminded the assault, and that the Thai authorities have been in search of Turkish help in monitoring him down.
However the Turkish Embassy in Bangkok on Tuesday issued a press release saying it had not been contacted by the Thai authorities about him.
On Monday, a Turkish official stated the nation had no report of the suspect getting into Turkey.
“We at the moment are making an attempt to know why the Thai authorities is insisting on implicating Turkish residents on this assault,” the official stated, talking on the situation of anonymity according to authorities protocol. “All Turkey has been linked to thus far is baseless hypothesis.”
However different suspects within the bombing have been Turkish, and the Thai authorities say considered one of them was present in an condominium in a northern Bangkok suburb that contained bomb-making materials and stacks of faux Turkish passports. The human smuggling community, the Thai police say, concerned transporting Uighurs to Turkey.
Along with in search of Mr. Abudusataer, the Thai police have issued warrants for a Thai lady and her Turkish husband, each believed to be in Turkey, and two different Turkish males.
However in an investigation that has been hindered by false leads and complicated alerts, Thailand’s police say they nonetheless haven’t discovered the assault’s mastermind or the man in a yellow shirt who was seen on safety cameras as he positioned a backpack underneath the bench shortly earlier than the blast.
The police haven’t defined particularly what position the Uighurs are suspected of enjoying within the bombing. Because the seek for perpetrators continues, analysts level out that Thailand’s army authorities has made various enemies.
The potential Turkish connections to the assault increase questions on rising alliances with the Uighurs and an enlargement of their battle with China.
Whereas many Uighurs resent Chinese language insurance policies that they are saying discriminate towards them and really feel nearer cultural and non secular ties to the Muslim Turkic individuals to the west, solely a minority of them advocate separation from China, and solely a small quantity have taken up arms.
However since 2009, violence linked to Uighurs inside China has risen alongside an arc of oasis cities in Xinjiang, in addition to within the area’s capital, Urumqi. Lethal assaults have additionally taken place outdoors the area, notably within the practice station of Kunming in March 2014, when a handful of Uighurs armed with lengthy knives or swords killed at least 29 people and wounded almost one hundred fifty others.
“First we noticed violence on the market escalating, then we noticed it displaying up across the nation, and now we’re seeing it occur overseas,” stated Raffaello Pantucci, director of Worldwide Safety Research on the Royal United Providers Institute for Protection and Safety Research in London.
“The excellent query for me, nevertheless, is whether or not we will say that that is one way or the other directed or pushed from Xinjiang or whether or not it’s moderately linked to Turkic nationalists,” he added. “The Turkic group has all the time championed the Uighur trigger, and is behind a number of the protests in Turkey, so it might make sense they’re additionally linked into felony human-smuggling networks that could be the supply of this specific plot.
“If this shakes out because it appears to be, it appears to be a very worrying improvement.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Currently you have JavaScript disabled. In order to post comments, please make sure JavaScript and Cookies are enabled, and reload the page. Click here for instructions on how to enable JavaScript in your browser.