2015-10~12
http://www.todayonline.com/world/asia/bangkok-blast-indictments-expected-within-2-weeks

Bangkok blast indictments expected within 2 weeks | TODAYonline
BANGKOK — Police have declared an end to primary criminal investigations into the deadly Erawan shrine bombing, saying they will now proceed with steps toward indicting the only two suspects they have arrested for the August attack.
After a meeting with investigators yesterday (Oct 19), national police chief Chakthip Chaijinda said the police are now “confident about the evidence” they have and expect the two suspects to be prosecuted in about two weeks.
Asked what the police will do about the 15 other suspects for whom arrest warrants have been issued, but who remain at large, Pol Gen Chakthip said they will continue to try hunting them down and bringing them to justice.
The bombing of the Ratchaprasong intersection shrine Aug 17 killed 20 people and injured about 140 others. A second explosion occurred at a Bangkok pier the following day, causing no injuries.
Police arrested Bilal Mohammed in late August at an apartment in northern Bangkok with bomb materials. He identified himself as a Uighur Muslim and confessed that he was the bomber on Aug 17. The second suspect, a Chinese man from Xinjiang known as Yusufu Mieraili, was arrested near the Cambodia border a week later.
The police said investigations will be resumed only if there are further arrests of suspects and discovery of new evidence.
Mr Mohammed, one of the multiple names the first suspect is known by, has told police he had escaped from China, where there is continued suppression against the Uighurs, and was heading to Turkey when he became involved with the bombing plot.
Some say the bombings may have been planned in retaliation to Thailand’s forcible deporting of 109 Uighurs to China in July when it described the Turkic-speaking Muslims as “illegal emigrants.”
The move drew strong condemnation from international human rights organisations, the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and some foreign governments including Turkey, which had offered to accept them from Thailand as it had done in the recent past.
Chinese authorities frequently blame Uighur separatists for outbreaks of ethnic violence in Xinjiang, where many Uighurs complain of discrimination, restrictions on religious freedom and cultural suppression. BANGKOK POST