2015-10~12
http://www.lidtime.com/seeing-double-kim-kardashian-west-and-north-rock-matching-braids-for-christmas-1675/

Seeing Double! Kim Kardashian West and North Rock Matching Braids for Christmas - LidTime.com
Sources told TMZ various magazines have offered the couple up to $2.5 million for the first pictures of the infant.

Danish embassy in Beijing warns its citizens of threats
Camouflage-clad paramilitary police were deployed in Sanlitun and other areas across the city. The UK Embassy has issued the same guidance to British Government Staff.

The Kardashians might’ve won the award for Christmas card of the year for their baby-infused version, but the cartoon one is a close second.

China Expels French Reporter Who Questioned Terrorism
BBC reported that Beijing confirmed it would not renew press credentials for Ursula Gauthier, of the French news magazine L’Obs. It said an article she wrote concerning the unrest in Xinjiang supported “terrorism and brutal actions” that killed individuals.

Yesterday, the 2015 Kardashian Christmas card made its online debut, and many fans were surprised to see that it only features Kourtney’s three children and one of Kim’s two kids.

Russia, Qatar reach agreement how to encourage talks between Syrian govt, opposition
Media reports quoted him before the visit as saying he wanted to open a representative office for his party in Moscow. Turkey and Russian Federation , which were previously close economic partners, are at odds over Syria .

Kim Kardashian and Kanye West have reportedly been inundated with big money offers for the first images of their son Saint.
The reality TV beauty was joined by her family as they gathered to exchange gifts, indulge in a great meal and enjoy quality time together on the special day.
Kourtney posted the photograph on her website and wrote: “Our yearly Christmas card photo usually has our entire family in it”. The full family, including both the children, has been requested to be a part of the photoshoot.
Saint was a glaring absence on the Kardashians’ official Christmas card, which featured his older sister, North West, and cousins, Mason, Reign and Penelope Disick.
Caitlyn came out publicly as a transgender woman, and shared the process on her own show. They represent pure love, which is all you need!’ she added.
Obviously the 36-year-old reality star is a mom that rocks as she donned skinny black leather pants while doing some last minute Christmas shopping. I can’t even handle the cuteness of our family’s Christmas card this year.
Sign up for our newsletter and get latest news and updates delivered to your inbox.