2015-10~12
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/diplomacy-defence/article/1890977/china-says-senior-uighur-official-killed-during-raid

China says senior Uygur official killed during raid in Xinjiang | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Maimaitijiang Tuohuniyazi, deputy head of public security in Aksu, during previously undisclosed raid on 'terrorist nest’
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
A senior ethnic Uygur security official was killed in a police raid on a “nest of terrorists”, state media reported on the weekend, giving details on a previously unannounced operation in the far western region of Xinjiang.
Hundreds of people have been killed in the past few years in the region which is home to the mainly Muslim Uygur people in violence blamed by the government on Islamist militants seeking an independent state called East Turkestan.
In a report on Saturday, People's Daily named the dead official as Maimaitijiang Tuohuniyazi, a deputy head of public security in Aksu, a vast part of western Xinjiang that borders Kyrgyzstan.
It said domestic security chief Meng Jianzhu, who is now in Urumqi, offered condolences to Tuohuniyazi's widow, praising him as a brave and selfless man. “To rescue a herder who had been kidnapped by terrorists, he threw himself into the breach, charged into the nest of terrorists and unfortunately heroically sacrificed himself,” the paper said, without giving other details.
At least 16 people, including five police officers, were killed in an attack at a colliery in Aksu in September. Security forces later said they had killed 28 “terrorists” involved in that attack.
The report said Meng took part in an award ceremony for those involved in tracking down the coal mine attackers. Meng said that over the past year, security services had “obvious successes” in cracking down on terrorism, and had succeeded in stopping “more than 98 per cent” of terror plots in the planning stage.
The mainland’s battle against the violence in Xinjiang has been hampered by poor intelligence in a part of the country where few officials understand the Uygur language or Islam and the government has had difficulty recruiting Uygur operatives, diplomats and experts say.
Meng has said the government needs to improve its intelligence gathering and sharing to better deal with the threat of terrorism.