2015-10~12
http://tribune.com.pk/story/974921/uighur-militants-eliminated-from-pakistan-asif/

Uighur militants eliminated from Pakistani territory: Asif - The Express Tribune
BEIJING: Pakistan has eliminated all members of the Uighur group of the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) from its territory, but must remain vigilant to ensure they don’t return, the country’s defence minister said in Beijing on Sunday.
China blames ETIM for carrying out attacks in its far western region of Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people, although many foreign experts doubt the group’s existence in a cohesive group.
China, Pakistan’s only major ally in the region, has long urged Islamabad to weed out what it says are militants from Xinjiang, who are holed up in a lawless tribal belt, home to a lethal mix of militant groups, including the Taliban and al Qaeda.
“We believe they’re all eliminated,” Defence Minister Khawaja Asif told reporters on the sidelines of a security forum.
“I think there (were) a small number in tribal areas, they’re all gone or eliminated. There are no more there.”
It is just as much in Pakistan’s interests as China’s to fight Uighur militants, Asif said, denying there was any difference of opinion between Beijing and Islamabad on Pakistan’s efforts to tackle the problem.
“The fight against ETIM is our own fight. It’s not only China’s fight. It’s a joint fight against ETIM, between Pakistan and China, so there is absolutely no difference of opinion on the elimination of ETIM from our tribal areas,” he added.
“We have to be vigilant for a long time that this menace, this infection, does not return.”
Some Xinjiang government officials have said they believe Pakistan is not doing enough to prevent Uighurs from travelling there to become radicalised.
Hundreds have died in unrest in Xinjiang in the past few years. Exiles and activists say Chinese controls on the religion and culture of the Uighur people is more a cause of the violence than well-organised militant groups.
China and Pakistan call each other “all-weather friends” and their close ties have been underpinned by long-standing wariness of their common neighbour, India, and a desire to hedge against US influence across the region.
China and Pakistan are getting ready to finalise a deal for China to sell eight submarines to Pakistan, Asif said, in what could be one of China’s largest overseas weapons sales once it is signed.
“It’s moving smoothly, it’s going ahead,” he said. “We are at the final stage. I think it won’t take very long.”
China blames violent unrest in its far western region of Xinjiang on separatist groups
Turkey has repeatedly expressed concerns about Beijing's treatment of the Uighurs, who speak a Turkic language
Move comes in attempt to improve relations with minority people who live there
A. How did they (i.e the ‘Uighur Militants’) come to be where they were, in the first place?
B. What methods were used to ‘selectively’ isolate and ‘eliminate’ the ‘Uighur Militants’ alone?
C. What has happened to the ‘non-Uighur militants’? Are they still in the areas where they were?
D. Did China demand ‘Do More’? Or was it all ‘Self Inspired’?Recommend
He is right. All Uighur militants are neutralised (except strategic assets ;)Recommend
What happened to two nation theory that Muslims are one and can not live with non-Muslims and need a separate homeland? Why is Pakistan not supporting freedom for
Uighur Muslims in the face of Chines oppression?Recommend
Where are all the Pakistanis who complain about bad treatment of Muslims in India?Recommend
Don’t eliminate all of them. Keep a few just in case China delays CPEC.Recommend
The frustration from Indians over here is hilarious they’re on about Chinese Muslims when they themselves lynch Muslims over beef biggest hypocrites if you’re so concerned about them at least save your own Muslims first hahaRecommend
Good move, but in return we should have demanded Muslims be able to fast and celebrate Ramadan and wear the hajib etc.Recommend
The two nation theory doesn’t say we interfere in other countries. However, Pakistan should press China to be a bit more humane towards its muslim population and safeguard some of their rights.Recommend

This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, redistributed or derived from.
Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2016 The Express Tribune.
Technical feedback? [email protected]
