2015-10~12
http://www.rappler.com/world/regions/asia-pacific/117153-china-expulsion-french-journalist

Journalist facing expulsion a 'flagrant champion' of terrorism – China
Welcome to Rappler, a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change. Rappler comes from the root words "rap" (to discuss) + "ripple" (to make waves).

China says French journalist Ursula Gauthier 'flagrantly championed acts of terrorism and acts of cruelly killing innocents, triggering the Chinese people’s outrage'
EXPULSION. China says flagrantly Ursula Gauthier's piece 'championed acts of terrorism and acts of cruelly killing innocents, triggering the Chinese people’s outrage.' File photo by Eric Feferberg/AFP
BEIJING, China – China confirmed the imminent expulsion of a French journalist in the first such case since 2012, accusing her of "flagrantly championing" terrorist acts in a statement on its foreign ministry's website Saturday, December 26.
Ursula Gauthier, a Beijing-based correspondent for French news magazine L'Obs, must issue a public apology for an article she wrote last month or China's foreign ministry will not renew her press credentials, officials told Gauthier on Christmas Day.
Her essay "flagrantly championed acts of terrorism and acts of cruelly killing innocents, triggering the Chinese people’s outrage," said the foreign ministry statement.
Citing her failure to make a "serious apology to the Chinese people," the statement said: "It is not suitable for her to continue working in China."
"China will never support the freedom to champion terrorism," it added.
Entitled "After the attacks (on Paris), Chinese solidarity is not without ulterior motives," Gauthier's article spoke of China's anti-terrorism policies in the country's western region of Xinjiang, homeland of the Muslim Uighur ethnic minority – many of whom complain of discrimination and controls on their culture and religion.
Xinjiang is often hit by deadly unrest and China blames the violence on Islamist separatists but rights groups point to Beijing's own actions as a driver.
If Gauthier's press card is not renewed, she cannot apply for a new visa, forcing her to leave China.
"They confirmed that if I did not make a public apology on all the points that had 'hurt the Chinese people'... my press card would not be renewed and I would have to leave on December 31," Gauthier told AFP Friday.
Gauthier would be the first foreign correspondent to be expelled since the 2012 expulsion of Melissa Chan, correspondent for the English-language service of Al Jazeera.
The move has been met with widespread criticism from the French government, press watchdog Reporters Without Borders (RSF) and Gauthier's employer.
"France will remain committed to the defence of freedom of expression and information throughout the world," wrote French minister of culture and communication Fleur Pellerin Friday on Twitter in response to the news.
Gauthier's article in L'Obs triggered condemnation from Beijing and a virulent campaign in the state-run Global Times and China Daily, as well as thousands of often violent and abusive comments from Chinese Internet users. Her photo was also published online.
While the domestic media in China is subject to strict control and many topics are taboo, the foreign media is free to publish on any topic. However, foreign journalists frequently complain of harassment by the authorities while conducting routine reporting. – Rappler.com
Welcome to Rappler, a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change. Rappler comes from the root words "rap" (to discuss) + "ripple" (to make waves).