2015-10~12
http://www.the-american-interest.com/2015/12/21/the-myth-of-russias-containment/

The Myth of Russia’s Containment - The American Interest
Has the West always had it in for Russia? Hardly.
“There can be no alliance between Russia and the West, either for the sake of interests or for the sake of principles. There is not a single interest, not a single trend in the West which does not conspire against Russia, especially her future, and does not try to harm her. Therefore Russia’s only natural policy towards the West must be to seek not an alliance with the Western powers but their disunion and division. Only then will they not be hostile to us, not of course out of conviction, but out of impotence.”
The policy of containment was not invented yesterday. It has been carried out against our country for many years, always, for decades if not centuries. In short, whenever someone thinks that Russia has become too strong or independent, these tools were quickly put into use.
While it is difficult to discern in the 18th century even a single event that could be credibly construed as “Western containment” of Russia, there are clear instances in the 19th century of efforts by Western powers, with varying degrees of success, to check Russian expansion. The following are perhaps the most salient examples:
Besides these specific events, St. Petersburg’s devotion to preserving the established monarchical order won Russia the 19th-century sobriquet of “the Gendarme of Europe,” and consequent enmity from Western republicans and revolutionaries. In addition, during the Polish insurrections of 1830 and 1863, there was considerable public sympathy for the Polish cause in Western countries such as Britain and France—though certainly not in Prussia or Austria.
The events in Ukraine are the concentrated expression of the policy of containing Russia. The roots of this policy go deep into history, [and] it is clear that this policy, unfortunately, did not end with the Cold War.
In this historical context, the Kremlin’s “Western hostility” story begs a question: of which specific territories was Russia unjustly deprived by 19th-century “Western containment?” Should Russia rightfully have expanded deep into the Balkans? Should it have legitimately annexed the Turkish straits, large portions of eastern Anatolia, or perhaps southern Azerbaijan and the southern Caspian littoral? Was it Russia’s due, cruelly denied by malign Westerners, to expand into Afghanistan, India, Xinjiang, or Manchuria?