2015-10~12
https://www.tytnetwork.com/2015/11/17/anonymous-declares-war-on-isis/

Anonymous Declares War On ISIS
In The Young Turks on YouTube by Aaron WysockiNovember 17, 20153 Comments
It’s often frustrating that our intelligence agencies can’t seem to track down most of ISIS considering how active they are online. Anonymous has decided to join the fight. They want to dox ISIS and send their addresses to Seal Team 6 for the most uber pownage of all time. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“After the Islamic State (ISIS) claimed responsibility for Friday’s wave of attacks that killed more than 130 people in Paris, the hactivist collective Anonymous declared war on the terrorist faction and its supporters.
“Make no mistake: Anonymous is at war with Daesh,” the enigmatic hacker group wrote on Twitter over the weekend, using an alternative name for ISIS.
Make no mistake: #Anonymous is at war with #Daesh. We won’t stop opposing #IslamicState. We’re also better hackers. #OpISIS
The group uploaded videos in multiple languages, including English and Italian, in which it vowed to “neutralize” the perpetrators of Friday’s attacks.
“We will not give up, we do not forgive,” said a person wearing a Guy Fawkes mask. “Expect us.””*
cenk, you do not understand the context of hillary’s comment regarding 911. she was saying that as a senator she helped in the rebuilding of manhattan. she made friends of lots of new yorkers including some with big money. the fact that they still support her is NOT an indictment. what you need to look at is what her positions are on regulating the banking and investment industries.
cenk, the syrian are fleeing violence instigated by isis AND assad’s forces. normal life is not viable in syria for anyone who is not an assad supporter. screw isis and assad.
Anonymous is not an organization. No organization named “Anonymous” has declared war on anyone. Some people who chat online decided to launch DDOS and phishing attacks against someone else.
Meanwhile, the Daesh (often flattered by calling them “The Islamic State”) killed another hundred people today. Maybe challenging them on Twitter will force them to find other ways to get new recruits, but it won’t prevent one single death tomorrow, or next week, or next month, or even next year.