2015-10~12
http://www.pressherald.com/2015/12/26/china-boots-french-journalist-questioning-terror-rhetoric/

China boots French journalist questioning terror rhetoric - The Portland Press Herald / Maine Sunday Telegram

Ursula Gauthier says China is making a regional feud in its northwest area seem tied to terrorism when it's about local rage.
China didn’t like Ursula Gauthier’s reporting – so it is kicking her out of the country.
The Chinese Foreign Ministry said in a written statement Saturday that the Beijing correspondent for French news magazine L’Obs would not be issued press credentials for 2016, effectively expelling her.
Gauthier drew Beijing’s ire country by writing an essay that questioned the Chinese government’s rhetoric on terrorism.
In the statement, Lu Kang, a spokesperson for the Foreign Ministry, said Gauthier was no longer “suitable” for her job in China and that her reporting “emboldened” terrorists.
Gauthier is the first foreign journalist to be booted from China since 2012, when Al Jazeera’s Melissa Chan was forced to leave after doing a series of stories on secret prisons. Journalists for the New York Times and Bloomberg News were also denied visas after publishing prize-winning stories about the wealth of China’s top leaders and their families. (Both news organizations have since been issued new visas.)
The Foreign Correspondents Club of China, the Committee to Protect Journalists and the French Embassy in Beijing have all expressed concern.
Gauthier, a veteran journalist, has been in Beijing’s crosshairs since November, when she wrote an essay about China’s response to the Nov. 13 attacks in Paris.
The piece suggested Beijing’s expression of solidarity post-Paris attacks had “ulterior motives,” namely a desire to get the international support for its claim that violence in China’s Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region is linked to a global war on terrorism.
Beijing maintains that violent unrest in Xinjiang is linked to international terrorist groups and often accuses foreign governments – and foreign reporters – of having a “double standard” on terrorism.
Many foreign scholars and rights groups say that what’s happening in China’s far northwest is less about global jihad than China’s suppression of its Uighur population.
In the aftermath of the Paris attacks, Chinese officials released details about a deadly attack at a coal mine in Xinjiang. China called it a coordinated terrorist attack; Gauthier’s report suggested that what happened in Paris and what happened at the coal mine had “nothing in common.”
The incident in Xinjiang was “an explosion of local rage,” Gauthier said.
Were you interviewed for this story? If so, please fill out our accuracy form

Here at MaineToday Media we value our readers and are committed to growing our community by encouraging you to add to the discussion.
To ensure conscientious dialogue we have implemented a strict no-bullying policy. To participate, you must follow our Terms of Use. Click here to flag and report a comment that violates our terms of use.
By her standard the IRA and ETA are all just local rage also, it’s the UK and Spain to be blamed.