2015-10~12
http://news.tj/en/news/tajik-chinese-specialists-meet-dushanbe-discuss-renewable-energy-cooperation

Tajik, Chinese specialists meet in Dushanbe to discuss renewable energy cooperation | Tajikistan News-NA «Asia-Plus»
DUSHANBE, November 20, 2015, Asia-Plus – Researchers from the Center for Innovative Development of Science and New Technologies at the Academy of Sciences of Tajikistan are meeting with researchers from the Xinjiang Institute for Science and Technology Development Studies (China) in Dushanbe today afternoon to discuss the scientific cooperation issues.
Tajik and Chinese researchers are expected to discuss issues related to development of the renewable energy resources.
They will discuss technological features of a solar smart home and parameters of a demonstration and educational center that is expected to be established in Romit Gorge, some 30 kilometers to the east of Dushanbe, with support of Chinese specialists.  The demonstration and educational center will have an integrated power plant.
The head of the Center for Innovative Development of Science and New Technologies, Academician Mamadsho Ilolov considers that Tajikistan has to start comprehensive study of generation and use of solar, wind, biomass and geothermal energy sources as soon as possible.  “Tajikistan enjoys nearly 300 sunny days a year and we have good geographical conditions for generation of solar energy,” Ilolov noted.
Tajikistan also has good conditions for generation of wind and geothermal energy.  “We have large geothermal water reserves and we must use them,” the academician said.
“Besides, we could generate energy through conversion of biological materials,” Ilolov noted.
Earlier this year, representatives the Center for Innovative Development of Science and New Technologies visited Urumqi, where they got acquainted with work of their Chinese colleagues on generation of alternative energy.  They reportedly visited Turfan, where an 8.8-square-kilometer area had been built into a national model for green city development.  Designed to be a model environmentally-friendly city in western China, the new low-carbon city depends not on fossil fuels but solar and wind energy for lighting and hot water supply.  It also uses geothermal resources for winter heating and summer cooling.