2015-10~12
http://abruzzo.tv/news/2015/12/29/french-journalist-forced-to-leave-china/

French journalist forced to leave China
China said Saturday it will not renew press credentials for Gauthier, effectively expelling her following a harsh media campaign against her for questioning the official line equating ethnic violence in the western Muslim region with global terrorism.
Citing her failure to make a "serious apology to the Chinese people", the statement said: "It is not suitable for her to continue working in China".
A Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Lu Kang, said the article "openly supports terrorist activity, the killing of innocents and has outraged the Chinese public".
BBC reports, Gauthier's article, which was published on November 18, accused the Chinese authorities of using the Paris attacks to justify the repression in Xinjiang.
BBC reported that Beijing confirmed it would not renew press credentials for Ursula Gauthier, of the French news magazine L'Obs.
In a statement Friday, the French Foreign Ministry said, "We regret that the visa of Madame Ursula Gauthier was not renewed".
And the US worries about a media clampdown under the new law is nothing but a far-fetched notion, since China has hosted scores of foreign media organizations and their reporters have access to even the highest government offices for years.
The Chinese government has attempted to draw connections between the increasingly bloody ethnic conflict in its Xinjiang region, framing attacks by separatist Muslim Uighurs as part of global terrorism.
Foreign journalists in China complain authorities are increasingly restricting press freedom in the country, making it harder and harder for them to report freely.
Gauthier previously told AFP that her treatment was an attempt "to intimidate foreign correspondents in China, particularly on issues concerning minorities, especially in Tibet and Xinjiang".
Gauthier attempted to underline that by associating the two acts of violence and declaring its solidarity with nations threatened by Daesh, "in return it [China] expects the support of the global community in its own entanglements with its most restless minority".
By then, state media had carried abusive editorials against Gauthier, accusing her of deep prejudice against China.
At a press conference held on Sunday, An Weixing, an official with the public security ministry, at Sunday's press conference, said China is facing rising threats of terrorism. That is the very same argument that both the United States and the United Kingdom try to explain when it says that it wants tech companies to be able to give governments access to encrypted systems, including private smartphones and Internet accounts, in the interests of national security.
The article Ms Gauthier published said that Xinjiang supported "terrorism and cruel acts", according to the BBC.
China adopted its first counterterrorism law on Sunday after early drafts of the bill attracted strong criticism for provisions that may tighten media controls and threaten the intellectual property of foreign firms.

 Man charged with raping woman at Rehoboth Beach home


 J. Goldman & Company Takes Position in Knight Transportation (KNX)


 Lyon, Marsh bowl Aussies to big series win over Windies


 US Midwest storm brings twisters, floods; not over yet


 Miss Universe contest 'biased? India's Urvashi Rautela claims so


 Campari: ceduta la Casoni Liquori per 5,3 milioni di euro


 Elezioni Roma | voto verso il 10 giugno | primarie Pd 6 marzo
