2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/10/27/cops-throw-usual-tantrum-after-tarantino-protests-police-brutality/

Cops Throw Usual Tantrum After Tarantino Protests Police Brutality | Funs.co
In New York City there were some protests against police brutality, one which was attended by legendary director Quentin Tarantino. As usual, police leaders responded to criticism with a tantrum, this time threatening to boycott Tarantino’s next movie. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“The New York Police Department officer union has called for a citywide boycott of Quentin Tarantino’s films following comments the director made during a rally against police brutality on Saturday. Speaking at the RiseUpOctober protest in New York’s Washington Square Park, the filmmaker told the crowd concerning police brutality, “This is not being dealt with in any way at all. That’s why we are out here. If it was being dealt with, then these murdering cops would be in jail or at least be facing charges.”…
Upon hearing the director’s comments, the NYPD’s Benevolent Association president Patrick Lynch responded by calling Tarantino a “purveyor of degeneracy” and called for a boycott of his films; The Hateful Eight will open Christmas day in New York City.”*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.