2015-10~12
http://www.mercurynewsdaily.com/china-announces-over-6-mln-dollars-humanitarian-aid-to-syria-china-focus-2873/

China announces over 6 mln Dollars humanitarian aid to Syria — China Focus | Mercury News Daily
“During our talks, the Syrian foreign minister clearly stated that Syria is decisively set in the fight against terrorism and we welcome these efforts”.
Muallem said that Syria’s condition for joining the talks is that there would be no foreign interference in the process.
BEIJING, Dec 24 (Reuters) – Syria is ready to take part in peace talks in Geneva and hopes that the dialogue will help it form a national unity government, Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Moualem said on Thursday during a visit to Beijing. An opposition delegation to future peace negotiations is expected to include the factions present in Riyadh, as well as other groups on the ground in Syria. He said a Syrian delegation will be prepared after it receives a list of the members of the opposition’s delegation.
“We hope that this dialogue will be successful in helping us to have a national unity government”, al-Moallem said.
The Syrian civil war began in March 2011, when protests that took place in the context of the Arab Spring were repressed by the Assad government.
China has expressed concern that Uighurs, a mostly Muslim people from western China’s Xinjiang, have ended up in Syria and Iraq fighting for militant groups there.
Despite repeated assertions from Moscow that it is targeting Islamic State, there is widespread agreement that Russia’s military campaign in Syria has been indiscriminate, bombing civilian areas and opposition forces supported by the West and hitting relatively few IS targets. For comparison, the United States promised $419 million in humanitarian aid for the Syrian crisis in September, bringing its total contributions to a whopping $4.5 billion.
This follows a meeting in Beijing between Foreign Ministers from the two countries.
So we have some mixed signals coming out of Beijing.
Li Guofu, director of the Center for Middle East Studies at the China Institute of International Studies, said al-Moualem’s visit comes at a “very good moment” after the United Nations Security Council on Friday unanimously adopted a resolution on Syria.
The Syrian minister has made it clear that Syria firmly opposes terrorism, which is welcomed by China.
Apple said 93 percent of its facilities globally run on renewable energy and that it is at the 100 percent mark in 23 countries around the world