2015-10~12
http://www.dawn.com/news/1213920/all-uighur-militants-eliminated-from-pakistani-territory-khawaja-asif

All Uighur militants eliminated from Pakistani territory: Khawaja Asif - Pakistan - DAWN.COM
BEIJING: Defence Minister Khawaja Asif on Sunday said Pakistan has eliminated all members of the Uighur militant group the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) from its territory, but must remain vigilant to ensure they don't return.
China blames ETIM for carrying out attacks in its far western region of Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people, although many foreign experts doubt the group's existence in a cohesive group.
China has long urged Islamabad to weed out what it says are militants from Xinjiang, who are holed up in a lawless tribal belt, home to a lethal mix of militant groups, including the Taliban and Al Qaeda.
"We believe they're all eliminated," Khawaja Asif told reporters on the sidelines of a security forum. "I think there (were) a small number in tribal areas, they're all gone or eliminated. There are no more there."
It is just as much in Pakistan's interests as China's to fight Uighur militants, Asif said, denying there was any difference of opinion between Beijing and Islamabad on Pakistan's efforts to tackle the problem.
"The fight against ETIM is our own fight. It's not only China's fight. It's a joint fight against ETIM, between Pakistan and China, so there is absolutely no difference of opinion on the elimination of ETIM from our tribal areas," he added. "We have to be vigilant for a long time that this menace, this infection, does not return."
Some Xinjiang government officials have said they believe Pakistan is not doing enough to prevent Uighurs from travelling there to become radicalised.
Hundreds have died in unrest in Xinjiang in the past few years. Exiles and activists say Chinese controls on the religion and culture of the Uighur people is more a cause of the violence than well-organised militant groups.
China and Pakistan call each other "all-weather friends" and their close ties have been underpinned by long-standing wariness of their common neighbour, India, and a desire to hedge against United States influence across the region.
China and Pakistan are getting ready to finalise a deal for China to sell eight submarines to Pakistan, Asif said, in what could be one of China's largest overseas weapons sales once it is signed.
"It's moving smoothly, it's going ahead," he said. "We are at the final stage. I think it won't take very long."
Addressing a security and defense forum in Beijing Federal Defence Minister Khawaja Asif urged the international community to take notice of 'human rights violations in India-held Kashmir and Palestine', according to a report published on the Radio Pakistan website.
He also expressed regret that the promises made by the world community for the resolution of outstanding disputes of Kashmir and Palestine were not fulfilled.
Appreciating the role of China for peace and stability in the region, Asif said Pakistan condemned terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and said that operation Zarb-e-Azb launched against terrorists is yielding positive results.
Most terrorists come from places without sustainable agriculture or a viable economy. Poverty breeds criminals and rebels. Civilizations have constantly struggled against criminal gangs.
Sir, hopefully you have not pushed them back. They will create chaos in East turkestan and the friendship will go up in smoke.
Have you seen what they did in Thailand as a retaliation for pushing Uyghurs back to china? Hobsons choice - If you push them, their friends will attack you...if you don't, your friend will attack you.
They came from Afghanistan and ran back to Afghanistan after our military operations. It was never our problem to begin with. Pakistan and China must now jointly take this issue of ETIM with the Kabul regime.
Pure hypocrisy. Uighars are fighting Chines oppression in the same way Palestinians are fighting Israel, Kashmiris fighting India and Chechens fighting Russian oppression.
If China is truly our friend we should be prepared to lobby the Chinese government to respect the religious and human rights or East Turkestan
@Sandhu - this statement is simply not true . I belong to Mansehra district of KPK province and I know there are several Uighurs located in villages in this area, supported by influential locals . These people are up to no good.
He does not talk to interior minster, GHQ only tell him on need basis, WHERE did he get the information?
Arent the uighars part of our ummah.they are not allowed to fast in ramzan.how and why do we tolerate this from chinese
@ Shaam سے It was done a long time ago......India thought it could meddle with our relation but sorry people.....not happening !
@Ijaz "Uighars are fighting Chines oppression in the same way Palestinians are fighting Israel, Kashmiris fighting India and Chechens fighting Russian oppression." -- First let the Palestinian, Kashmiri and Chechen liberation movements be backed from out of Frankfurt, Germany like the Uighur militancy is by the Western powers to spite the nations they are fighting against, then come back and make this comparison.
The Uighurs deserve better conditions in China. The friendship with China could be leveraged to discuss a political settlement rather than a military one.
Pakistan and other Islamic countries must stand with innocent Palestine, they are fighting for their existence. Pakistan should loud it's voice before international community urging them to stop killing innocent Palestinians and to derive a solution so that they (Palestinian ) should get their rights.

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
