2015-10~12
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2015/10/02/chinas-desperate-battle-against-separatist-terrorism/

China’s Desperate Battle Against Separatist Terrorism - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
Thailand’s police have linked the August 17 bomb attack on the Erawan Shrine, a popular tourist attraction in Bangkok, to Uighurs, a largely Muslim ethnic group some of whom have been fleeing Chinese rule. The bombing killed 20 people, including seven Chinese tourists, and injured more than 100 others. Nobody has claimed responsibility for one of the worst terrorist incidents in recent Thai history.
Two men are currently in Thai custody: one is an ethnic Uighur carrying a Chinese passport while the other’s nationality hasn’t been confirmed. Thai police and security analysts have said that the perpetrators may have sought retaliation for Thailand’s forced repatriation to China of more than 100 Uighurs in July or for Bangkok’s crackdown on a human smuggling ring that had transported Uighurs from China to Turkey.
If the Thai allegation proves to be true, the blast would mark a rare spillover of violence related to Uighurs outside China. This attack would add a new dimension to the serious issue of terrorism in China, with significant security implications not only for China but also for Turkey, Thailand and other transit countries in connection with the movement of Uighurs.
Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking minority group who call China’s far-western Xinjiang region home. Overseas-based exile groups and campaigners say that Uighurs face brutal repression in China; Beijing denies any religious or cultural discrimination and maintains that its policies help bring stabilityand prosperity to Xinjiang.
Since 2008, China has faced an increasing number of violent attacks which Beijing has blamed on Uighur separatists connected to overseas terrorist organizations. The violence had typically been confined to Xinjiang until October 2013 when a jeep careened onto the sidewalk near Beijing’s Tiananmen Square, killing two pedestrians and injuring more than 40 others; the three perpetrators set the vehicle on fire, taking their lives.
Several months later, a handful of Uighurs mounted a mass knifing at a train station in the southwestern city of Kunming, leaving at least 29 civilians dead and more than 140 others wounded. Beijing said the perpetrators were separatists who had carried out the attack after they failed to flee China for Southeast Asia.
In recent years, many Uighurs have traveled secretly via Southeast Asia to Turkey, a country that views Uighurs as part of a broad Turkic-speaking family and shelters a large Uighur diaspora. Beijing contends that hundreds of Uighurs – including some who have fled to Turkey – have joined the Islamic State, or IS, a notorious terrorist group in Syria and Iraq, and that some of these battle-hardened fighters may return to China to commit acts of terrorism. Following the Kunming massacre, China launched a counterterrorism campaign in Xinjiang and a special crackdown on human smuggling along its southwest border in order to prevent “jihadi migration.”
The Uighur connection to the Bangkok blast may be a nightmare for China, but it should not be a big surprise, considering that terrorism knows no national borders. Even if the Bangkok blast had not occurred, terrorism connected to Uighurs likely would have spilled over China’s borders sooner or later. It remains to be seen how China will respond in terms of policy options, but its top leaders should have realized that their heavy-handed measures against Uighurs would not be sufficient to prevent more acts of violence.
Uighur involvement presents a challenge for Turkey as well. Thailand is seeking Turkish assistance in capturing several other Bangkok blast suspects – but Ankara has brushed off any links to Turkey as “baseless speculation.” Turkey may face calls from Beijing and others to shut its doors to Uighurs, yet that seems unlikely due to Turkish popular sentiment towards Uighurs as well as Turkey’s obligations under domestic and international law.
For Thailand – given Bangkok’s close relationship with Beijing, Thai authorities may pursue meaningful measures to hinder the entry of Uighurs in the future. The same holds true for other Southeast Asian countries, including Cambodia, Malaysia, Burma, Laos and Vietnam, which have in the past acceded to China’s demands to hand over Uighurs. What remains unknown is whether the threat of future blasts may cause those countries’ leaders to think twice about cooperating with future extradition requests from China.
Terrorism is not only a threat to China but to the whole world. For anti-terror measures to be effective in the long run, China must address the root causes of terrorism — namely Uighur grievances — and ensure respect for human rights and the rule of law as the foundation of the fight against terror. In addition, given the global nature of such terrorist acts, enhanced international cooperation is vital for China’s desperate battle against terrorism.
Zunyou Zhou is a counter-terrorism law expert at Germany’s Max Planck Institute for Foreign and International Criminal Law. He has written widely on German and Chinese criminal law and anti-terror legislation, and since 2012 has been the head of the Institute’s China section. 
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

Who are the freedom fighters? ISIS supported Uyghur terrorists? Please be aware that Chinese and Americans are on the same side when it comes to terrorism.
China needs to deport all these terrorists back to Turkey and close the border.
That feel when will never operate operationally in removal of separatist.
It came out back in 2012 that the U.S., Turkey and Jordan were jointly running a US CIA and Special Forces command training base for Syrian rebels out of the Jordanian town of Safawi, but apparently according the Jordanian officials, that training ‘wasn’t meant to be used in Iraq’ (via WND):
Syrian rebels who would later join the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, or ISIS, were trained in 2012 by U.S. instructors working at a secret base in Jordan, according to informed Jordanian officials.
The officials said future ISIS members were trained at the time as part of covert aid to the insurgents targeting the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in Syria. The officials said the training was not meant to be used for any future campaign in Iraq.
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
