2014-01~03
http://www.asianewsnet.net/news-57641.html

Asia News Network - Xchange Tool
BANGKOK (The Nation/ANN) - Officials in the far South appear disinclined to change their policy of setting up military bases close to “soft targets” – such as hospitals and schools – given their main goal of having effective control of various areas.
JAKARTA (The Jakarta Post/ANN) - When the US Navy deployed its ships to the South China Sea to exercise “freedom of navigation”, China responded that such action violated Chinese law and was counterproductive to regional peace and stability. Some believe that such an operation is a form of containment policy against China, or even siding toward other claimants in the South China Sea dispute.
JAKARTA (The Jakarta Post/ANN): The government met with representatives of the Chinese Embassy over an “arrogant” incident involving Chinese coast guard vessels on Sunday, which a minister said had forcibly rescued a Chinese fishing boat that had been caught fishing illegally near Natuna Islands.
TOKYO (The Japan News/ANN) - Japan's middle and high schools students sample politics through mock elections.
HONG KONG (China Daily/ANN) - E-commerce giant sees 6 trillion yuan in trading volume by 2020, CEO says
TAIPEI (The China Post/ANN) - Two Taiwanese fishing boats claimed to have been fired upon by an Indonesian government vessel while operating in the Strait of Malacca early on Monday. Taiwan’s representatives in Jakarta are confirming the involvement of an Indonesian state vessel, noting that the area was known to be rampant with piracy.
TAIPEI (The China Post/ANN) - President-elect Tsai Ing-wen is mulling to convene a national industry development summit on request of business leaders in Taiwan on Monday.
SHENZHEN/HONG KONG, China (The Nation/ANN) - Linking hardware startups with sources in China.
PALU, Indonesia (The Jakarta Post/ANN) - Indonesian Military (TNI) commander General Gatot Nurmantyo on Monday pledged to continue the hunt for the country’s most-wanted suspected terrorist, Santoso, despite the deaths of 13 soldiers in a helicopter crash in Poso regency, Central Sulawesi.
JAKARTA (The Jakarta Post/ANN) - Indonesian courier companies on Monday expressed their optimism over the future of their business amid the ASEAN single market, citing a number of barriers to entry that will temporarily stop overseas companies from entering the country’s logistics industry.