2014-01~03
http://www.aljazeera.com/news/asia-pacific/2014/03/china-help-afghanistan-fight-terrorism-20143883457182295.html

China to help Afghanistan fight 'terrorism' - Al Jazeera English
Meet the refugees who fled Syria for the Gaza Strip
China has said that it will work with Afghanistan to fight "terrorism", after it blamed a deadly train station attack on "extremists" from its western Xinjiang region, which shares a short border with the war-torn nation.
We will also work with Afghanistan and other neighbours to resolutely fight all terrorist forces
Saturday's announcement from Foreign Minister Wang Yi comes as Beijing expressed increasing concerned about security in restive Xinjiang, where it says Muslim fighters receive help from those in neighbouring countries.
China says separatists from the region, home to a large Muslim Uighur minority, launched an attack in the southwestern city of Kunming last week, killing at least 29 people and injuring about 140.
China will work with the international community for political reconciliation in Afghanistan and support reconstruction, the foreign minister said at a press briefing during an annual session of China's largely rubber-stamp parliament.
"We will also work with Afghanistan and other neighbours to resolutely fight all terrorist forces," he said.
China will host a foreign ministerial conference on Afghanistan in August to encourage "a move toward lasting peace", Wang added.
Wang visited Afghanistan last month as US and allied troops prepare to draw down their forces after more than 12 years of fighting the Taliban. China has been stepping up its engagement with other regional players in recent months in Afghanistan, Beijing-based diplomats say, mainly out of concern that the NATO-led force's pullout may spawn instability that could spill into Xinjiang.
Many Uighurs in the energy-rich region, which borders ex-Soviet Central Asia, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India, chafe at Chinese restrictions on their culture and religion. More than 100 people there have been killed in unrest in the past year, according to Chinese state media reports. China bristles at suggestions from exiles and rights groups that the violence is driven more by unhappiness at government policies than by any serious threat from separatist groups who want to establish an independent state called East Turkestan.
Authorities visible on Beijing's streets, two days after a stabbing rampage that left 33 dead and 143 injured.
At least 33 killed and 130 injured as knife-wielding men storm train station.

 Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
 are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
 or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
 global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
 accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.

During the first two weeks of March, at least 1,428 were arrested for breaching Hungary's border fence with Serbia.
As Obama prepares to visit, questions remain over whether the embargo will be lifted and the future of Guantanamo Bay.
Are memes calling the Irish "the first slaves" an attempt to derail conversations about slavery and modern-day racism?
Palestinian American Farouk Shami is an associate who says the Republican candidate would make a "great president".
Authorities visible on Beijing's streets, two days after a stabbing rampage that left 33 dead and 143 injured.
At least 33 killed and 130 injured as knife-wielding men storm train station.
At unprecedented joint press conference, US and Cuban presidents go toe-to-toe on human rights and economic punishment.
Moscow warns it will act unilaterally in response to alleged ceasefire infringements by Syrian rebels starting Tuesday.
Latin American migrants risk life and limb to reach the US border in search of the American dream.
The incredible story of 18 cows that became Israel's most wanted fugitives and symbols of Palestinian resistance.
Five years after the revolution, Tunisia's black minority has yet to experience the freedoms enjoyed by other citizens.