2014-01~03
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/mar/12/china-knife-attack-suspects-detained-before-massacre

China knife attack: three suspects 'detained two days before massacre' | World news | The Guardian


Wednesday 12 March 2014 06.46 EDT


Last modified on Sunday 17 January 2016 07.23 EST


Chinese authorities detained three "terror suspects" two days before this month's gruesome knife attack at a south-western Chinese train station, an independent Chinese magazine has reported, deepening the mystery surrounding the incident.
On 1 March, five knife-wielding assailants went on a hacking and slashing rampage at a train station in Kunming, the capital of southern China's Yunnan province, killing 29 people and wounding more than 140 others.
Police shot four of the attackers dead at the scene and captured one. Two days later, state media said that an "eight-member terrorist group" was behind the attack, and that police had apprehended the remaining three members.
Yet according to a report in Caixin magazine, authorities arrested three suspects on 27 February in Yunnan's Honghe prefecture, which borders Vietnam. The remaining five group members drove to Kunming after failing to detonate an explosive device in Shadian township, a small community in the prefecture's Gejiu City, the magazine reported, citing an unnamed source "with ties to law enforcement".
The article, which did not explain the apparent contradiction, has since been removed from the magazine's website, highlighting the sensitivity of the investigation.
The Shadian police station, Gejiu City government, and provincial government could not be reached for comment.
The Chinese government has blamed separatists from the ethnically riven north-western Xinjiang region for the attack, suggesting that they were Uighurs, its largest native ethnic group.
Although Uighurs – who are predominantly Muslim – have long complained of religious restraints and economic marginalisation, authorities insist that regional policies are progressive and successful, and blame the region's intermittent spasms of unrest on interference from abroad.
Aside from the name of the group's leader – Abdurehim Kurban – state media has offered almost no information about who the attackers were or what motivated them.
According to the province's Communist party boss, Qin Guangrong, the group originally attempted to leave the country via Yunnan, and later from the southern province Guangdong, "to participate in jihad" abroad, but failed.
"Their plan was, if they were unable to escape, to wage jihad in Honghe and in Kunming's train station or bus station," he said.
Yet Radio Free Asia (RFA), a broadcasting platform sponsored by the US government, provided an alternative account: that the assailants had tried to flee China to escape persecution in Xinjiang, and that they lashed out in "desperation" after failing repeatedly.
The suspects came from Hanerik township in Xinjiang's Hotan prefecture, RFA said, and fled after police opened fire on a crowd of unarmed Uighur protesters.
"They cannot go back to Hotan, but they cannot do any business in Kunming either because they don't have any ID cards with them and have arrest warrants issued against them by the regional police department," the broadcaster quoted an unnamed Uighur source in Kunming as saying.
Uighurs in Beijing have been subject to tightened restrictions and police checks since the attack, according to the South China Morning Post newspaper.
"I was secretly hoping the attackers were not from Xinjiang," said an unnamed Uighur student at the Central University for Nationalities, a school primarily for ethnic minorities. "The next morning, when Xinjiang's role was confirmed, I cried. Once again, Uighurs have been labelled and linked to a violent attack."