2014-01~03
http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/16258489-three-chinese-ethnics-released-from-guantanamo-bay

Three Chinese 'ethnics' released from Guantanamo Bay


 Three Chinese 'ethnics' released from Guantanamo Bay
 
 - Created Jan 01, 2014

Coming hard on the heels of the release of ailing American political prisoner Lynne Stewart from a Texas federal prison, three more -- this time international -- political prisoners have been freed.
Three members of an ethnic Turkic minority in China, the Uighur, have been released from the American gulag otherwise known as Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The men had been held for the last 12 years, uncharged and untried. They have been sent to the Central European country of Slovakia, US government officials announced Tuesday.
According to the Washington Post, the men were the last three of about two dozen Uighurs to finally be released from Guantanamo Bay. Their release follows years of intense diplomacy which was kickstarted by renewed efforts by President Barack Obama to close down the prison entirely.
As has also been widely reported, these three men – Yusef Abbas, Hajiakbar Abdulghuper and Saidullah Khalik – were among those who have never posed any terrorist threat whatever to the United States. According to Fox News, even the former Bush administration understood this simple fact.
Indeed, a federal judge ordered them released unconditionally in 2008. And, after Obama assumed the presidency, a handpicked 2009 panel agreed with the judge.
Interestingly, Slovakia had previously accepted three other Guantanamo prisoners in 2009 and consented to the resettlement of these and other Uighurs after other countries balked under pressure from the Chinese government. China, from the start, has sought repatriation of these men.
"Slovakia deserves a lot of credit because they were willing to do what large countries like the United States, Canada and Germany were unwilling to do, which was to resist diplomatic pressure from China and the stigma of Guantanamo," said Wells Dixon, a lawyer with the New York-based Center for Constitutional Rights. Dixon worked tirelessly over the years in attempts to secure the men's release.
These three, among many others, were basically kidnapped following the US invasion of Afghanistan after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. They were detained as suspected allies of the Taliban.
But, as The New York Times reports, in fact, there was never any evidence that the men were even remotely connected to the Taliban. They had fled to Afghanistan from China, where Uighurs have long been oppressed for seeking an independent homeland in the northwestern Xinjiang region and/or neighboring countries.
Indeed, amazingly, Uighurs are known to be extremely pro-American. At first, these men were actually happy and relieved when they were handed over to the US Army. According to Dixon, most of them were exchanged for bounties paid by the US for suspected "terrorists."
Once they reached Guantanamo Bay, they endured the same treatment that all Guantanamo detainees encountered. Eventually, though, this group was segregated from the other suspected "terrorists," and their lot improved -- slightly.
Over the years a number of them were actually released – but not those with Chinese citizenship. They could not be sent back to China because US law precluded sending refugees (or anyone else) into countries where a reasonable fear of persecution and torture might obtain.
As stated, and as diplomacy continued to falter, a US federal judge ordered them released to the US, which has a Uighur-American community in Virginia, just outside Washington, D.C. That effort failed because of opposition from Congress and the administration of President George W. Bush.
Obama officials, on the other hand, have thanked Slovakia for accepting the men. "These three resettlements are an important step in implementing President Obama's directive to close the Guantanamo detention facility," said Clifford Sloan, the State Department's special envoy for Guantanamo closure.
This latest release brings the prisoner population at Guantanamo to 155.
Six of those are on trial for terrorism offenses, including charges associated with the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Another 80 have been approved for transfer or resettlement, including nearly 60 from Yemen, but the US deems Yemen too unstable to handle such a transfer.
"For a long time we were very worried that the Uighurs would still be at Guantanamo when the lights went out years from now," Dixon said. "Thankfully that's not the case. It's increasingly clear that it's the Yemenis who will still be there when Guantanamo is shuttered."
For those who, like myself, thought that President Obama was simply dragging his feet in getting Gitmo closed, a large serving of crow is in order.
It is clearer now than ever that a recalcitrant Republican-controlled Congress and the former Bush administration actually defied and denied a federal judge's order to release these and other Gitmo detainees.
And, because the man is not a dictator, he cannot himself defy Congress in matters like this.
Still, the question remains: As commander-in-chief of the armed forces, does not the president have the constitutional authority to close any American military prison anywhere?
But then the question which has vexed and hamstrung this process since Obama first took office is, what do you do with the released prisoners -- especially if no nation-state, including this one, is willing to receive them?
Part of PulsePoint’s content marketing platform, this website provides tools that enable
 brands and writers to work together to create great content.

Today’s brands recognize the power of authentic content to build deep connections with their audience. But
 finding the right writers, applying the best strategies and managing the process can be challenging. Our
 philosophy is that by shortening the distance between writers and brands—and giving both the tools they
 need to succeed—we can make it easier than ever to create real brand engagement.

We help brands engage the right consumers at scale by fusing the science of programmatic distribution
 with the art of content marketing.

Our writers are passionate and knowledgeable about a variety of subjects. They have a wide range
 of professional writing experience, with significant experience creating engaging content for top
 brands and publishers.

To join this community, you must apply and be selected by our Editorial team. If your application
 is accepted, you will become eligible to be selected for sponsored content projects.
