2014-01~03
http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/missing-malaysia-airlines-flight-early-3222594

Missing Malaysia Airlines flight: The early clues could point to Islam militants - Colonel Richard Kemp - Mirror Online
The possibility of this being a terrorist attack has to be seriously considered.
There are two key facts. First, two of the passengers appeared to be travelling on stolen passports and second,  there was no distress signal.
That would certainly raise alarm bells about terrorism. We have seen recent terrorist attacks in China itself.
We know there are terrorist cells within the Uighur minority in China.
Follow all the latest news and reaction from Malaysia as it happens in our live blog
They are Muslim separatist militants and have carried out a number of terrorist attacks in China.
Only last weekend they were blamed by some for the knife slashing attack at Kunming railway station in China’s Yunnan province, which left 29 people dead.
It is not beyond the bounds of possibility these people could be involved in the latest incident - either Uighurs themselves or other Islamist terrorists seeking to support them.
Uighur terrorists are known to have links with al Qaeda. Several have been captured by US forces in Afghanistan since 2002.
And we know that Islamist terrorists remain obssessed with attacks carried out using aircraft.
In the mid-1990s an Islamist terror plot called Operation Bojinka, based in the Philippines, included plans to bring down aircraft flying from countries in South East Asia. It didn’t work.
Since 9/11 we have seen many other attempts to use planes as weapons or blow them up in mid-air.
The intention of Islamist terrorists to bring down an aircraft is a known fact. All these things point to a distinct possibilty that it could be terrorism.
If so, it will be regarded as a major spectacular by the terrorists.
Col Richard Kemp is former head of counter-terrorism for the Joint Intelligence Committee and chairman of Cobra.
Libyan Abdelbaset al-Megrahi was convicted and jailed but in 1995 a US defence department document leaked from the NSA alleged Iran paid for the bombing
Royal Malaysian Air Force chief Rodzali Daud said: "We realised there is a possibility the aircraft did make a turnback."