2014-01~03
http://www.itv.com/news/story/2014-03-01/kunming-railway-station-attack-china-dead/

China blames separatists for deadly knife attack at station - ITV News
Knife-wielding "terrorists" have killed at least 33 and wounded over 100 people at a railway station in Kunming, China. The government has blamed separatists from Xinjiang for the deadly attack.
A further three people suspected of involvement in a knife attack that killed 29 people at a Chinese railway station have been captured, authorities said.
The official Xinhua News Agency said a "terrorist gang" of eight members was responsible for the attack on Saturday evening in Kunming, the capital of Yunnan province.
Citing a statement from the Ministry of Public Security, Xinhua said police shot and killed four of the attackers and captured an injured female suspect at the scene.
Authorities have said the attack, which also wounded 143 people, was carried out by separatists from the far west region of Xinjiang.
Read: Police 'shoot dead four, arrest one' after China attack
A total of 33 people have been killed following a mass knife attack at a Chinese train station.
Militants have been blamed for the attack in the western region of Xinjiang in which witnesses described knife-wielding men "stabbing people madly".
A parking attendant, who was standing nearby, said he could not believe what was happening when he saw the attackers.
"I walked out and I saw a person with a knife this big," he said, spreading his arms wide.
"Then I saw five or six of them. They all had knives and they were stabbing people madly over by the first and second ticket offices," he said.
Police shot dead four attackers and arrested one after knife-wielding "terrorists" launched an attack at a crowded train station in Kunming, China's Yunnan province.
State news agency Xinhua reported that about five others were on the run, after one of the worst attacks of its kind in China in recent memory.
"This brutal attack on defenceless, innocent people by violent terrorists devoid of conscience exposes their inhuman and anti-social nature," Xinhua quoted security chief Meng Jianzhu as saying.
"They inevitably will face the severe punishment of the law. We must mobilize all resources and adopt all means to break this case," Meng said, echoing comments made by Chinese President Xi Jinping.
Read: Xi Jinping calls for attackers to be 'punished lawfully'
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon condemned "in the strongest terms" the attack on civilians at the railway station in Kunming, expressing his hope that "those responsible will be brought to justice", according to a statement issued by his spokesman.
The secretary-general notes that there is no justification for the killing of innocent civilians and hopes that those responsible will be brought to justice.
The UN chief also expresses his condolences to the bereaved families and wishes those wounded a speedy recovery.
China's President Xi Jinping has called for "all-out efforts" after at least 33 people were killed in an attack in Kunming railway station, in China's Yunnan Province.
According to the South China Morning Post, the President called for the attackers to be punished "in accordance with the law".
"Understand the serious and complex nation of combating terrorism. Go all out to maintain social stability," the news agency quoted President Xi as saying.
At least 29 people have been killed, and 130 injured after a group of unidentified armed men stormed into a railway station in Kunming, in China's Yunnan Province, state media agency Xinhua has reported.
An attack at a train station in south-western China was carried out by militants from China's far western region of Xinjiang, state news agency Xinhua has said.
"Evidence at the crime scene showed that the Kunming Railway Station terrorist attack was carried out by Xinjiang separatist forces," Xinhua said, citing the government of Kunming city where the attack happened.
An attack by a group of knife-wielding men at a train station in Kunming, China, has left 27 people dead and 109 injured, state news agency Xinhua reports.
Local television station K6 said that several of the attackers were shot by police.
Social media users in China have been posting graphic pictures of bodies lying in pools of blood around the station.
There is no indication of what motivated the attack, so far, but the state news agency said it was an act of "violent terrorism."
Chinese state television said the violent knife attack in a train station in Kunming, China, was the result of "violent terror attack."
Pictures being shared on social media show bodies covered in blood lying around the ground at the station.
There has been no immediate word on who is responsible. State television said Communist Party Officials were on their way to the scene.

 Yunnan Daily: Communist Party chief of Yunnan province has arrived at the hospital. #Kunming http://t.co/b0HHExPJLd

A group of unidentified men armed with knives attacked people in a train station in Kunming, China, Xinhua News reports.

 Armed men on Saturday chased and chopped people in a railway station in Kunming. Several attackers were killed by police: authorities.


 27 dead, 109 injured in Kunming railway station violence: authorities


 Knife-wielding men attack people in Kunming railway station, causing casualties.


 By using this site, you agree we can set and use cookies.
 For more details of these cookies and how to disable them,
 see our cookie policy.
