2014-01~03
http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/missing-malaysian-airlines-flight-live-3219331

Flight MH370 recap: Updates after different Malaysia Airlines plane forced to make emergency landing at Kuala Lumpur - Mirror Online
The sea floor is likely covered in "foraminiferal ooze", a sludge formed by microscopic marine organisms, which would show up any large metallic object clearly, James Cook University marine geologist Robin Beaman said.
"A sidescan is very good at detecting the difference in the acoustic return of a hard object versus a soft, muddy sea floor," he said. "This is quite a good environment for looking for wreck debris, albeit deep."
Authorities have targeted the remote stretch of ocean based on four acoustic signals they believe are from the plane's black box recorders.
But they have not heard a "ping" for a week and with the batteries on the locator beacons now 10 days past their 30-day expected life, authorities have decided to stop searching using a Towed Pinger Locator and to use the Bluefin instead.
Malaysian authorities have still not ruled out mechanical problems as causing the Boeing 777's disappearance, but say evidence suggests it was deliberately diverted from its scheduled route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.
An aircraft's black box records data from the cockpit and conversations among flight crew and may provide answers about what happened to the missing plane.
Despite the huge amount of effort being made to track down the missing plane - we appear to be no closer to any evidence being found.
The Straits Times reports this morning that the hunt for MH370 has so far cost around $100 million.
Yesterday, Malaysia's transport minister insisted that the bill for the search operation was not one of his primary concerns.
But he warned that once they do find wreckage, the costs of salvaging it from the bottom of the Indian Ocean would be "huge".
A deep-sea drone has now completed its first full scan of the seabed in the Indian Ocean in the search for MH370.
The Bluefin-21 drone finished its 16-hour deployment at a depth of 4.5km late yesterday, after its first two attempts were scuppered by technical problems.
The Joint Agency Coordination Centre, the body running the search, said this morning: "Bluefin-21 has searched approximately 90 square kilometres to date and the data from its latest mission is being analysed,"
Malaysian Transport and Defence Minister Hishammudin Hussein has just begun giving a press conference - the first for a number of days.
He tells gathered journalists that "there will come a time we need to regroup and reconsider, but the search will always continue."
He says there has been an improvement in relations between officials and the relatives of Chinese passengers on board MH370, which have been very tense.
Malaysia is working closely with the Chinese government, he says, and the relatives are to be briefed on the next stage of the search to stop any "speculation".
He adds that the most difficult part of any investigation of this nature is having to deal with the families, and they must also consider the relatives of those passengers of other nationalities.
The minister is asked about the financial cost of the search.
He says: "Take it from me, as the person in charge, that is the last thing I have been faced with."
"I am cautiously optimistic in that there are many friends of Malaysia out there... that have not come on board just yet because of geographical reasons... who have been wanting to come forward to assist us.
"As we look into the deep water search... and salvaging at the depth of 4.5km... we have to look at contractors and the cost of that will be huge.
"Many friends have come to me quietly who have said if we cannot send assets... we have funds."
That's the end of transport minister Hishamuddin Hussein's latest press conference.
No major developments to report, but he reiterated once again that the search "will always continue".
He said relationships with the families of Chinese passengers on board MH370 - which have previously been extremely strained - are improving. And that the cost of the search was, at the moment, not something he was focused on.
However he stressed that the cost of any salvage operation at the bottom of the Indian Ocean would be "huge".
He said he had been approached with offers of funds from a number of countries who, so far, have not been able to assist with the hunt in other ways.
Australia's Joint Agency Coordination Centre says up to 10 military aircraft, two civil aircraft and 11 ships have been involved in today's search of around 40,349 square kilometres of the Indian Ocean.
The oil sample collected by Ocean Shield has now arrived in Perth, and is undergoing tests.
As well as the Bluefin-21 underwater drone, authorities searching for MH370 are relying on daily modelling of ocean currents provided by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation’s (CSIRO) Marine and Atmospheric Research unit.
This could give clues about how any surface debris may have dispersed.
Nick Hardman-Mountford, the CSIRO’s principal marine scientist, said: "People are spending a lot of their time at the moment looking at the daily models to provide updates."
"The winds, ocean currents, the time and cyclones passing through, they can all have an influence on what the ocean currents are doing and the model has to be able to capture all of this."
Footage taken by a deep-sea drone should determine sooner than previously thought whether a remote stretch of the Indian Ocean is the final resting place of a missing Malaysian jetliner, Australian search authorities said on Thursday.
After the U.S. Navy robot submarine Bluefin-21 completed its first full scan of the seabed some 2,000 km (1,240 miles) west of the Australian city of Perth, authorities said they had reduced the search area based on further analysis of what they believe may be signals from the plane's black box.
It came as an air-and-sea search was expected to be scaled down almost six weeks after Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 disappeared from radar screens mid-flight with 239 people on board.
A series of "pings" recorded this month have led searchers to the remote stretch of ocean in the belief that the signals may have come from the plane's black box recorders.
However, with no pings received in more than a week and the black box's battery now 10 days past its approximate expiry date, authorities are relying on the Bluefin drone.
On April 15, a U.S. Naval spokesman said the drone would take up to two months to search its designated area, but on Thursday the Australian Joint Agency Coordination Centre said that was now incorrect.
"Since the US Navy provided comment some days ago, the underwater search has been significantly narrowed through detailed acoustic analysis conducted on the four signal detections made by the Towed Pinger Locator," the JACC said in a statement.
The analysis had created a "reduced and more focused underwater search area".
On Monday, the search coordinator, retired Air Chief Marshal Angus Houston, said the air and surface search for debris would likely end in three days as the operation shifted its focus to the largely unmapped area of ocean floor.
Malaysia's defence minister, Hishammuddin Hussein, vowed that the search would continue even if there could be a pause to regroup and reconsider the best area to scour.
"The search will always continue. It's just a matter of approach," he told a news conference in Kuala Lumpur.
A series of "pings" recorded this month have led searchers to the remote stretch of ocean in the belief that the signals may have come from the plane's black box recorders.
However, with no pings received in more than a week and the black box's battery now 10 days past its approximate expiry date, authorities are relying on the Bluefin drone.
A separate lead in the search, a sample taken from an oil slick picked up in the area, had been analysed and was found not to be aircraft engine oil or hydraulic fluid, the JACC said, suggesting it was not related to an aircraft.
The country's top police official made the denial which contradicted with suspicions raised by an officer in the Counter Terrorism Division of Malysian Special Branch
Author John Chuckman believes it's possible the US gunned down the jetliner, either deliberately or accidentally, and now wants to keep it secret