2014-01~03
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2014/02/26/China-charges-Beijing-scholar-with-fomenting-separatism/UPI-80421393451516/?spt=rln&or=2

China charges scholar Ilham Tohti with fomenting separatism - UPI.com
BEIJING, Feb. 26 (UPI) -- Ilham Tohti, a scholar and champion of China's Uighur ethnic minority, was arrested in China on charges of fomenting separatism, his lawyer said Wednesday.
Tohti, 44, a Beijing resident, was being held in Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region in western China, after his arrest six weeks ago in Beijing, authorities confirmed.
Tohti is an outspoken critic of Chinese policy in the energy-rich region. Tensions between native Uighurs and Chinese security forces have resulted in weekly clashes and the loss of over 100 lives in recent months, the New York Times reported Wednesday.
His formal arrest underscored the government's determination to silence a moderate voice for the Uighurs, a predominately Sunni Muslim people, the newspaper said.
Accusations of fomenting separatism are baseless, Tohti's lawyer, Li Fangping, said Wednesday.
Tohti's wife, Guzaili Nu'er, denied any separatist ambitions of her husband, saying, "He is a sensible, educated man who just studied human rights, culture and religion in Xinjiang."
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.