2014-01~03
http://www.christiantimes.com/article/chinese.official.warns.universities.dont.promote.western.values/50755.htm

Christian News on Christian Times
To enjoy our website, you'll need to enable JavaScript in your web browser. Please click here to learn how.
There are now only approximately half a million Christians in Syria compared to the almost 1.5 million prior to the civil war that started in 2011. This is according to Antoine Audo, a Chaldean Catholic bishop in Aleppo.
Donald Trump has gained the support of prominent Southern Baptist Pastor Robert Jeffress, who defended the Republican presidential frontrunner's controversial platforms.
The House Bill (HB) 786 was passed by a Mississippi Senate committee last week to allow guns in churches.
A group of atheists and freethinkers are not happy with the construction of a life-sized replica of Noah's Ark in Kentucky. The Tri-State Freethinkers intend to put up billboards to express what they think about the Ark Encounter theme park – that it is a "Genocide and Incest Park."
Pastor Saeed Abedini has been able to celebrate his son Jacob's birthday for the first time since he was released from a prison in Iran.
Tullian Tchvidjian was relieved of his position as Director of Ministry Development at the Willow Creek Church after he revealed that he had an affair with a woman not his wife.
The Religious Liberty Bill has passed the Georgia state legislature on Wednesday and is awaiting the signature of Republican Gov. Nathan Deal for it to become a law.
An online Christian prayer site has been shut down by the Washington Attorney General, and the founder has been ordered to return the millions of dollars collected from consumers for prayers.
All 62 people aboard a passenger jet flying from Dubai to southern Russia were killed when their plane crashed on its second attempt to land at Rostov-on-Don airport on Saturday, Russian officials said.
A 26-year-old American man who was captured by Kurdish forces in Iraq earlier this week, said he had traveled from Turkey to join Islamic State before deciding to escape, according to an interview with Kurdish television on Thursday.
Four Bible translators have been killed by militants who stormed their office in the Middle East and destroyed some of their equipment.
Some parents have decided to withdraw their kids from a school in East Sussex, England because of a class that explores gender issues.
Prophecies about the End Times are starting to unfold and Christians need to prepare for what is about to come.
A 1,100-year old crucifix was found in Anslev, Østfyn in Denmark this month.
Muslim Fulani herdsmen in Nigeria have killed almost 500 farmers in Nigeria --- most of them Christians --- in the last month, and the villagers are still too afraid to come out and bury their dead.
Pastor Mark Burns, a supporter of Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump, believes that Hillary Clinton endorses black genocide.
A resident of Raleigh, North Carolina (NC) has been handed a 26-year jail sentence for targeting Christians in an elaborate Ponzi scheme from 2009 to 2012.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry has finally declared that ISIS is committing genocide against Christians in the Middle East.
Kansas House has endorsed Bill 175, which is designed to shield religious organizations in college campuses from being forced to welcome anyone to join them regardless of their personal faith and beliefs.
Mar. 15 marks the fifth anniversary of Syria's civil war, and Christians commemorated the event by launching the #PrayForRefugees campaign.
Pastor Saeed Abedini says American Christians might be lacking true revival, and noted that Iranians generally spend a lot more time praying and evangelizing.
Islamic teaching does not justify the Islamic State's (ISIS) persecution of Christians, based on a study on Prophet Mohammed's previously untranslated writing.
A church in Camberwell, London has been ordered to pay a fine amounting to £7,740 (US$11,174) after nearby residents complained about its noisy "anti-demon" services at 3 a.m.
Some campaigners are not happy with the British government's decision to appoint David Isaac as the new Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) chairman, saying he would be biased against Christians.
Pastor Saeed Abedini is reportedly refusing to undergo marriage counseling after he was released from a prison in Iran.
Christian pastors have reacted to Donald Trump's rally violence, saying Christians should fight against free speech violations because these could one day block their right to preach about Jesus Christ.
Former Atlanta Fire Chief Kelvin Cochran is fighting back by suing the city after he was booted from his job over a book he wrote promoting Christian marriage.
Chinese Christians driven by passion for Jesus Christ have gathered in Beijing for a celebration of their faith and a special worship service.
An Evangelical Christian mother has put her faith into practice by publicly declaring forgiveness and praying for the young man who murdered her son three years ago.
A UK Christian magistrate, Richard Page, is suing the Justice Minister after he was fired over his comments on adoption by gay parents.
Failure is a natural part of life and Christians must learn to accept and redefine it, Saddleback Church Pastor Rick Warren says.