2014-01~03
http://canadafreepress.com/index.php/article/60366

INDONESIA: Christians Barred from Churches at Christmas | Canada Free Press
By News on the Net -- Bio and Archives  January 9, 2014
Sources: Release International, Morningstar News, The Jakarta Globe, The Jakarta Post
Several congregations in West Java, Indonesia, were prevented from celebrating Christmas in their church buildings this past December. Elsewhere in the country, hundreds of police and other security personnel guarded church buildings to ensure safety for worshippers.
The congregation of GKI Yasmin in Bogor, West Java, joined together to celebrate Christ’s birth under a makeshift shelter. At the time of the service, their church building was sealed off and guarded by hundreds of officials, despite two Supreme Court rulings in the church’s favour. While the congregation obtained a permit to open their church in 2006, the municipality promptly revoked permission after protests from some of the local residents, as well as hardline groups. Yet there is a glimmer of hope for the congregation as the new mayor of Bogor, due to take office in April, has pledged to “review the situation.”
Also in West Java, the Isa Almasih Church in Cimahi was sealed by the municipal government on December 13th, despite having been used for worship for decades. A sign was posted on the building’s gate after its closure, stating, “This building is for a residence and may not be used for worship services or similar activities.” Church officials had long ago applied for a permit, but the application was delayed in bureaucracy without explanation—a common occurrence with Christian permits in the country. In the weeks leading up to its closure, large mobs had twice gathered to protest against the use of a private residence as a church. At last report, the congregation was continuing to meet together in smaller cell groups.
Pray for a breakthrough for these churches, and that God will make a way for His people to meet together for worship in this predominantly Muslim country. Thank God for the strong faith of Christians in this area who continue to meet and praise Him despite opposition and persecution. Ask God to grant wisdom to church leaders as they lead their congregations so that they may be a light to their flock and to those who oppose them and their Lord.
To learn more about Indonesia’s persecuted church, please visit our website at www.persecution.net/indonesia.htm.
On Christmas Eve, a group of believers gathered at the home of Mr. Hosseini were arrested when Iranian security authorities raided their Christmas service. The plain-clothes officials searched the believers and the residence, seizing all Christian books, CDs and laptops. They also confiscated the satellite TV receiver. Mr. Hosseini’s neighbours, who witnessed the raid, were warned by officials not to speak with anyone about what they had seen. Their home was also searched, and the father of the family was insulted and beaten. At last report, the whereabouts and condition of the arrested Christians were not yet known.
In recent years, Christians have faced increased pressure and threats during the Christmas season and a greater number of churches have been monitored. Many have even celebrated Christ’s birth while in jail, separated from their families and loved ones. One such believer, Farshid Fathi, has been incarcerated since 2010. (You can read more about his case at www.persecution.net/ir-2012-07-12.htm.) In a recent note to fellow believers, he wrote:
“Dear brothers and sisters,
We are celebrating Christmas in prison with honour and unexplainable joy in Christ. 2013 is going to end and we are very thankful to the Lord for everything we were given this year. I had called 2013 ‘the year of revelation.’ Now I am very excited because I am calling 2014 ‘the year of God’s presence.’ God calls us to walk before Him and be blameless, as He said to Abraham. So far, walking before Him is very sweet and so exciting. It is filled with great endurance, afflictions, hardships, calamities, beatings, imprisonments, sleepless nights, hunger, purity, knowledge, patience, kindness, the Holy Spirit, genuine love, truthful speech and the power of God. So my dear brothers and sisters, if you read this, be ready for a very exciting journey in 2014. Thank you so much for remembering me in your prayers after 1,100 days.
With blessings in Christ, your brother, Farshid.”
While the Christmas season has come to a close for another year, please do remember our brothers and sisters who continue to languish in prison for their faith in the Christ Child. May they trust their unknown future to our God, who intimately knows each detail of their lives. Intercede on behalf of the recently arrested believers that they may soon be freed from prison. Also ask the Lord to bless Farshid. May the year ahead indeed be one in which this imprisoned believer, and other incarcerated Iranian Christians, sense the Lord’s presence in a very real and tangible way.
Go to www.persecution.net/prayerwall to post a prayer of support and encouragement for Fashid, Mr. Hosseini, and others like them who remain imprisoned in Iran because of their faith.
This month marks Alimujiang Yimiti’s sixth year in prison. Alimujiang was first charged in 2009 for “providing state secrets to overseas organizations.” However, many believe the real reason for his incarceration is his zealous commitment to share the Gospel and for leading a church in the Uyghur area of China’s northwest.
Alimujiang has been imprisoned since January of 2008. The following year he was sentenced to 15 years in detention. In April of 2010, his wife, Gulnur, was finally permitted to visit him for the first time since his imprisonment. Tragically, their son, who was only four years old at the time, could barely even recognize his father. At last report, Gulner is only able to visit her husband once per month at the most. (To learn more about Alimujiang’s case, please visit http://www.persecution.net/cn-2012-09-13.htm.)
The past six years have been incredibly difficult for this family, but God has faithfully sustained them. Gulnur recently shared that she had found a new job, and that her mother has become a believer! She also expressed how encouraged she is by the many prayers of brothers and sisters from around the world, as well as by the support of local Christians.
As this family marks another year with Alimujiang behind bars, please keep them close to your heart. Pray that Alimujiang will be released from prison soon so he can be reunited with his wife and children. May this family be encouraged by the prayers of their Christian family in Canada and throughout the world, deeply sensing that they are not alone in their struggle. Praise the Lord that Gulnur’s mother has become a believer. Pray now that her faith will grow, eventually producing a great harvest. May God also bless Gulner in her new job. Ask for a special blessing on the couple’s children who are missing the presence of their earthly father in their daily lives…that they would look to their Heavenly Father to sustain them.
While praying for this family, please also consider sending Alimujiang a note to build him up in his faith. Mail your letters to:
Alimujiang Yimiti
Section 11, The Xinjiang No. 3 Prison 
No.1339, Dongzhan Road, Urumqi City 
Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 830013 
CHINA
For more information on writing letters to prisoners, please visit our website at www.persecution.net/write.htm.
Main Cover Stories
American Politics
Canadian Politics
World Events
Most Recent Columns
Latest Breaking News
I love the sight of puffed up, over-rated, conservative and liberal pundits, being hoisted on their own petards
"I also speak for thousands of police officers throughout the country that feel the White House has forgotten about them
It appears Clinton’s energy policies are aimed at trying to make winners out of losers. How can she help it? That is what the Democrat Party is trying to do with her.
The answer to the problem of crony capitalists is limited government
The Occupy Wall Street populist is terrified of being outed as a 1-percenter Wall Street elitist.
Protest was the work of community organizers, socialists who know the Alinsky plan. Carefully orchestrated, and has less to do with Trump, and more to do with the fundamental transformation of the United States
Fox News, which through the arrogant Megyn Kelly, is leading the charge that ‘Donald Trump will do anything for votes’, is escaping criticism for being willing ‘to DO anything’ to boost ratings
If solar and wind were indeed catching up to other forms of electricity generation, they wouldn’t need current subsidies, much less ever-growing ones. Such are the incredible costs of producing energy with “free fuel"
Election 2016 is about the turnaround survival or continuing downfall of Western Society as we know it.
Despite our obvious differences, Michelle and I will always hold you and Bill in high esteem as one of our closest enemies and shall always cherish the memories, disappointments, havoc you have both brought forth to our lives, my administration
We all know the Obama mantra about not letting a crisis go to waste
"I also speak for thousands of police officers throughout the country that feel the White House has forgotten about them
"This is a historic moment where the Mexican consulate will open its doors to carry out these types of events in favor of the Mexican community,"
You would have to go all the way back to 1888 for the last time an election-year nominee was confirmed under divided government, as we have now.
If voting for Donald Trump, do not call,” the ad in The Nickel states.
Wielding an umbrella on a rainy Havana afternoon, Obama and his family stepped off of Air Force One and were greeted by top Cuban officials — but not Raul Castro
The bill passed on a vote of 234 – 186, with overwhelming Republican approval and unanimous Democratic “nays.”
With Marco Rubio suspending his campaign after losing the Florida primary and it is beginning to appear he will reverse his previous words to support a nominee Trump.
Pursuant to Title 17 U.S.C. 107, other copyrighted work is provided for educational purposes, research, critical comment, or debate without profit or payment. If you wish to use copyrighted material from this site for your own purposes beyond the 'fair use' exception, you must obtain permission from the copyright owner. Views are those of authors and not necessarily those of Canada Free Press. Content is Copyright 1997-2015 the individual authors. Site Copyright 1997-2015 Canada Free Press.Com Privacy Statement