2014-01~03
http://in.reuters.com/article/2014/03/14/pakistan-uighurs-idINL6N0M90AM20140314

From his Pakistan hideout, Uighur leader vows revenge on China | Reuters
DERA ISMAIL KHAN/ISLAMABAD, March 14 Entrenched
in secret mountain bases on Pakistan's border with Afghanistan,
Uighur fighters are gearing up for retribution against China to
avenge the deaths of comrades in Beijing's crackdown on a
separatist movement, their leader told Reuters.
China, Pakistan's only major ally in the region, has long
urged Islamabad to weed out what it says are militants from its
western region of Xinjiang, who are holed up in a lawless tribal
belt, home to a lethal mix of militant groups, including the
Taliban and al Qaeda.
A mass stabbing at a train station in the Chinese city of
Kunming two weeks ago, in which at least 29 people were killed,
has put a new spotlight on the largely Muslim Uighur ethnic
minority from Xinjiang, where Beijing says armed groups seek to
establish an independent state called East Turkestan.
Beijing has called the Kunming bloodshed a "terrorist
attack" carried out by militants, and says separatists operate
training camps across the rugged border which abuts Pakistan and
Afghanistan.
In a rare but brief interview, Abdullah Mansour, leader of
the rebel Turkestan Islamic Party, said it was his holy duty to
fight the Chinese.
"The fight against China is our Islamic responsibility and
we have to fulfil it," he said from an undisclosed location.
"China is not only our enemy, but it is the enemy of all
Muslims ... We have plans for many attacks in China," he said,
speaking in the Uighur language through an interpreter.
"We have a message to China that East Turkestan people and
other Muslims have woken up. They cannot suppress us and Islam
any more. Muslims will take revenge."
Mansour spoke on a crackly line using a mobile phone with an
Afghan SIM card in a brief statement which gave Reuters no
chance to ask about the Kunming attack.
The separatists hide mainly in the troubled North Waziristan
region, where they are treated by their Pakistani Taliban hosts
as guests of honour, militant and Pakistani intelligence sources
say.
The Turkestan Islamic Party, which China equates with the
East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), keeps a low profile in
Pakistan. Unlike the Taliban, it almost never posts videos
promoting its activities or ideology. Its exact size is unknown
and some experts dispute its ability to orchestrate attacks in
China, or that is exists at all as a cohesive group.
Getting hold of leaders such as Mansour is almost impossible
and interviews are usually very brief and conducted from
undisclosed locations through a Pashto-speaking translator.
Pakistani intelligence sources say they number about 400
fighters, and are clustered around the remote Mir Ali area, 
sharing bases with other foreign insurgents, particularly
Uzbeks, who speak a similar language.
In Afghanistan, two security reports sent to expatriates
working there this year warned of attacks on a Chinese hotel,
Chinese companies and other targets in Kabul. There have been no
attacks so far.
According to Afghan Taliban sources, there are about 250
Uighur militants in Afghanistan's Nuristan and Kunar provinces.
"They live here with us but are always concerned about their
people and mission in China. They are nice people, good Muslims
and the best fighters," a senior Taliban commander said.
He added that Uighur militants were not fond of guns, and
resorted mostly to knives and daggers.
China has stepped up security in Xinjiang after a vehicle
ploughed into tourists on the edge of Beijing's Tiananmen Square
in October, killing the three people in the car and two
bystanders. China labelled it a suicide attack by militants from
the region.
Mansour released a Uighur-language video weeks after the
Tiananmen incident, calling it a "jihadi operation" by its holy
warriors.
For Pakistan, China is a valued friend in a region it views
as potentially hostile. It is keen to demonstrate a commitment
to weeding out what Beijing calls separatists, but its security
forces are already stretched fighting Pakistani Taliban
militants.
Rehman Malik, Pakistan's former interior minister, said that
about 20 Uighur militants were captured and handed over to China
on his watch in 2008-2013.
"Pakistan and China are great friends. There are no secrets
between us. When I took over as interior minister, I took on
this subject in close association with my partners in China," he
said. "The present government is also aware of the whole thing."
Many Uighurs in the energy-rich Xinjiang region which
borders ex-Soviet Central Asia, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India,
accuse Han Chinese of stifling their culture and religion. More
than 100 people there have been killed in unrest in the past
year, according to Chinese state media reports.
But the Chinese government has provided little evidence that
the Kunming killings or any other incidents that Beijing has
labelled terrorist attacks have been linked to outside forces.
Some experts have suggested that the low-tech nature of the
weapons the assailants used in Kunming and the location of the
attack point to a lack of external backing and weakly organised
revenge killings as opposed to coordinated international
terrorism.
The Kunming attack has put China on edge and prompted
concerns over rising discrimination against Uighurs across the
country.
Exiled Uighur groups have repeatedly called for transparent
investigations into such incidents and say they should not be
used as excuses for further repressive policies on Uighur
communities.
Hundreds of Uighurs migrated to the lawless areas of
Pakistan about five years ago after they were squeezed out of
their homeland by a Chinese crackdown, Pakistani security
sources say. Their numbers are believed to be much smaller now.
"The Chinese militants in the tribal areas are mostly
clerics and fighters. They have their families here and are
mostly focused on Afghanistan," said one Pakistani Taliban
commander.
Saifullah Mahsud, head of the Pakistani think tank FATA
Research Center, which has extensive sources in Pakistan's
tribal areas, agreed their power and capacity to carry out major
attacks are exaggerated by China.
"It's survival, basically. They can't go back," he said.
"This is the only place where they are welcome."
But attempts by Taliban insurgents to carve out new hideouts
in northern areas of Pakistan near China's border have helped
create a new corridor for Uighurs leading into their homeland.
"In the last couple of years, Taliban militants have got
nearer and nearer to the Chinese border," said Mahsud. "There
has been a lot of movement there. Perhaps that gives them the
logistical support that they require to cross over into China."

 (Additional reporting by Jibran Ahmed in PESHAWAR, Jessica
Donati in KABUL and Michael Martina in BEIJING; Writing by Maria
Golovnina in ISLAMABAD; Editing by John Chalmers, Ben Blanchard
and Nick Macfie)
Apple Inc on Monday unveiled a smaller, cheaper iPhone aimed at new buyers, especially in emerging markets and possibly China, the world's biggest buyer of smartphones, as the technology company looks to reverse a decline in worldwide sales of its most important product.  Full Article 
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.