2014-01~03
http://foreignpolicyblogs.com/2014/03/03/ethnic-tension-spreads-in-china/

Ethnic Tension Spreads in China - Foreign Policy Blogs | Foreign Policy Blogs
Armed paramilitary policemen patrol near the Kunming Railway Station Sunday. Pic: AP
In what local authorities are calling “an organized, premeditated violent terrorist attack,” 10 assailants dressed in black and wielding long knives stormed the train station in the southern city of Kunming, indiscriminately slaughtering thirty-three people and wounding 130. Police fatally shot four of the assailants , arrested one and are still searching for the remaining five. Municipal authorities were quick to blame Xinjiang separatist forces — on Chinese television, authorities displayed what they said was a black flag recovered at the scene calling for independence for the region, which some Uighurs refer to as East Turkestan.
Recent terrorist acts in China have typically been limited to the western province of Xinjiang, where a Turkic-speaking Muslim minority population called Uighurs complain of restrictions on their culture and religion by the ethnic Han majority.
The attack, which one newspaper affiliated with the Communist Party called “China’s 9/11,” was the latest indication the conflict may be spreading to other regions, as Saturday’s assault took place more than 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) to the southeast. An earlier attack occurred in November, when a jeep ran over pedestrians at Beijing’s Tiananmen Gate, killing the three Uighurs in the vehicle and two pedestrians while injuring 40 others.
Previously, the conflict was limited to the province of Xinjiang, where riots in the Xinjiang capital of Urumqi in 2009 resulted in Uighurs storming the streets and randomly killing Han women and children. A few days later Han vigilante mobs armed with sticks and bats retaliated, with over 200 people killed.
The violence in Kunming comes at a sensitive time as President Xi Jinping prepares to deliver his first one-year work report in Beijing on Wednesday at the National People’s Congress. The violence may have also been triggered by last month’s detention of Ilham Tohti, a professor who has championed the rights of Xinjiang’s large Muslim Uighur minority and was recently charged with separatism.
Xi’s has called for “all-out efforts” to capture and bring the culprits to justice, and local police will crackdown on crime, but these actions alone will not be enough. The seriousness and location of this latest act of terrorist violence means the Chinese authorities need to develop a two-pronged approach. In addition to greater and more focused policing efforts, the minority Uighur population needs to have a larger role and more input into local government policy making and development projects. Many Uighurs feel marginalized since majority Han Chinese have flocked to their towns and cities in recent years, setting up businesses and competing for jobs. Without greater autonomy for the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, any increased pressure on the minority Uighurs will continue to spill over into violence. 

Another interesting article. If seems to me that internal terrorism is one of the only things that countries actually take seriously nowadays. I was recently speaking to a Chinese friend of mine about the whole Uighurs situation. He was not so concerned with the actual problem, but what he called the “double standards” between the west and China. He pointed out that when this happens in New York or London as it did in 9/11 and 7/7, it was reported as an act of global terrorism and had to be stopped, but if this happens in china, the west reports it as suppression of ethic minorities and calls for greater restraint. Do you have any thoughts on the silence on the whole Russian Ukrainian issue by China? Seems like a good time to pop over to the (Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China), islands and plant a flag while the west is watching events in Crimea. Perhaps even a thought about the latest 12.5% rise in military spending.
I guess it would be a double standard if conditions for ethnic minorities were equivalent in the U.S., London and Xinjiang, but I believe its more difficult to practice Islam in Xinjiang.
Gary Sands is a Senior Analyst at Wikistrat, a crowdsourced consultancy, and a Director at Highway West Capital Advisors, a venture capital, project finance and political risk advisory. He has contributed a number of op-eds for the South China Morning Post, U.S. News and World Report, Newsweek, Washington Times, The Diplomat, International Policy Digest, Eurasia Review, Indo-Pacific Review and China Digital Times. He was previously employed in lending and advisory roles at Shell Capital, ABB Structured Finance, and the U.S. Overseas Private Investment Corporation. He earned his Masters of Business Administration in International Business from the George Washington University in Washington, D.C. and a Bachelor of Science in Finance at the University of Connecticut in Storrs, Connecticut. He spent six years in Shanghai from 2006-2012, four years in Rio de Janeiro, and is currently based in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.