2014-01~03
http://za.news.yahoo.com/suspected-uighurs-rescued-thai-trafficking-camp-072240085.html

Yahoo
In a strongly worded memorandum delivered to the ANC's national executive committee, the party's highest decision-making body, the group of Umkhonto weSizwe commanders say they cannot remain silent "in the face of this most undemocratic and dangerous development". The salvo comes in a week when Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas revealed how the Gupta brothers offered him the finance portfolio days before Zuma fired finance minister Nhlanhla Nene in December. Zuma's son, Duduzane, was present at this meeting. Former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor also came out this week about the Guptas offering her a cabinet position. The Sunday Times understands that ANC heavyweights led by former MK chief of staff
Everything you have ever wanted to know about the best home security systems. All on Yahoo Search!
The cardinal mistake of those close to power is they think they are in power too, writes Dumisani Hlophe. Johannesburg - The Guptas arrived in South Africa from India in recent years. They came to South Africa because the country presented some serious opportunities - business opportunities, to be precise. Therefore, their close relationship with the president, Jacob Zuma, and his family is located within this money generation adventure. In this commercial adventure, Zuma becomes a source of investment. His commercial value is influence and the control of state apparatus and resources. Given that he will not always be the State President, the Guptas sought to build commercial empires and secure
Lerato Motshwarakgole played the role of Dineo's (Katlego Danke) younger sister on Generations. While her character was scandalous and had an affair with Dineo's husband, Motshwarakgole leads a far more uncomplicated life. Motshwarakgole studied at the University of Cape Town for a degree in performance arts.
Police have arrested a man who allegedly pretended to be a highlevel incumbent at the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) after claiming he could squash the murder docket in Oscar Pistorius’s name. It is understood the 33-year-old contacted the family this week, claiming he could make the docket disappear at a cost of R250 000. The Hawks were contacted by the family who then set up a sting operation to arrest the suspect. He was arrested outside the North Gauteng High Court in the city centre yesterday afternoon. Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi said the police’s top investigative unit worked closely with the Pistorius family to catch the con artist. “He was arrested soon after he received
Take A Look At The Trucks Of 2016. See How They Compare To Each Other. Search For New Dodge Trucks.
Cape Town - The ANC’s national executive on Sunday night backed Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas in his stand-off with the powerful Gupta family. The ruling party’s highest structure has drawn a line in the sand for President Jacob Zuma’s wealthy backers. “We reject the notion of any business or family group seeking (political) influence over the ANC with the contempt it deserves, while also recognising the need to act to protect the integrity of our government and our organisation,” ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe told the media following a marathon meeting of the national executive committee.  Last week Jonas lifted the lid on the Gupta family’s attempts to seize control of the country’s
Former Chelsea has been persistently linked in the media with the Old Trafford job since departing December. Manchester United Jose Mourinho Louis van Gaal Mourinho Jose Mourinho sacked from Chelsea LONDON – Jose Mourinho signed a pre-contract in February to take over as manager of Manchester United in place of Louis van Gaal at the end of the season, Spanish newspaper El Pais reported on Sunday, citing sources close to the Portuguese. Former Chelsea, Real Madrid and Inter Milan coach Mourinho has been persistently linked in the media with the Old Trafford job since departing Stamford Bridge for the second time in December. Under the terms of the agreement, the report said, United would have
He accused him of "controlling" the ANC and the DA. Speaking to supporters at a rally in Khayelitsha, Cape Town, Malema also claimed that Rupert was behind his troubles with the taxman. "The ANC and DA are one thing. They agree on everything. The ANC is a black DA and the DA is a white ANC. All of them are controlled by Rupert and friends," Malema told a cheering crowd He said Rupert had ordered the ANC to deal with him while he was in the ANC Youth League - and he was controlling the South African Revenue Service. "Rupert said the ANCYL is like an irritating mosquito in a room and it needs a 'Doom'. President Jacob Zuma became that 'Doom'." Asked to react to Malema's comment, Rupert laughed
In the market for a new car? Don't pay MSRP. Save yourself both time and money. Find a great low price for your new car before you buy.
Can Professor Xolela Mangcu please name the UCT academics who are ‘simply failing blacks’? says Timothy Crowe. Cape Town - In his piece, “Going back to racist 1980s” published in The Sunday Independent (March 13, 2016), Professor Xolela Mangcu continues his pattern of emphasising pre-1994 pain/oppression/denigration of “black” students/staff at South African universities in general; evidence-free or “fictional” current personal and institutionalised racism at the University of Cape Town in particular; and character defamation of those with the temerity to disagree with him. He starts his article off by blaming poor marks for his academic work at Wits University in the 1980s on two white racist
It was quickly turning into a nightmare of epic proportions, but the Proteas managed to avoid an embarrassing ICC World T20 defeat to Afghanistan in Mumbai on Sunday. Chasing 210 for victory after South Africa scored 209/5 in their 20 overs, Afghanistan got off to a rollicking start through dashing opener Mohammad Shahzad, but eventually lost their way to be bowled out for 172 to give the Proteas a 37-run win. The solidly-built Shahzad, who is also the Afghan wicket-keeper, laid into the Proteas attack as the Asian outfit hit 47 off the first three overs, with Shahzad getting 44 of those runs. He smashed both Kagiso Rabada and Kyle Abbott, with his first 42 runs all coming from boundaries. The
Johannesburg – Ntandoyenkosi Kunene was crowned Miss South Africa 2016 at a glittering ceremony at Carnival City, Brakpan, in Gauteng, on Saturday. Runners-up were Elizabeth Molapo from the Free State (1st Princess) and Tayla Skye Robinson from Gauteng (2nd Princess). Kunene, 23, an education honours student from Mpumalanga, said she was determined to “make a difference during her reign”, the organisers said in a statement. As Miss South Africa 2016 Kunene won cash, a car, and products valued at more than R2 million. “She also gets R600 000 courtesy of Cell C, Sun International, and Varsity College to spend on random acts of kindness during her reign,” the statement said. The event – broadcast
Women everywhere are saving thousands of dollars on cosmetic procedures by reducing the appearance of wrinkles from the comfort of their own home.
The Democratic Alliance (DA) says it will request that Public Protector Thuli Madonsela extend her investigation into President Jacob Zuma and the Guptagate scandal to include the latest “shocking revelations” by former Government Communication & Information System...
Vuyo Mvoko's show ‘On The Record’ was allegedly cancelled after reports he planned to discuss the Guptas. SABC Gupta Gupta ministerial job offers Vuyo Mvoko JOHANNESBURG – The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) has declined to comment on the canning of senior political journalist Vuyo Mvoko's show after reports that he was planning to discuss ‘state capture’ by the Guptas. In a Twitter post by the SABC anchor on Thursday, which was the last time he spoke publicly, Mvoko announced to his viewers that his show, On The Record with Vuyo Mvoko, would not be airing that night, or in future. Questions surrounding the reasons behind the sudden axing of the show, which only began airing in
Business, labour and the government put up a united front earlier this month during an international roadshow to assure investors that a plan was in place to curb high government debt and spending and to grow the economy. But their hard work was nearly compromised by a spat between Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and the Hawks, and revelations of "state capture" by Gordhan's deputy Mcebisi Jonas on the eve of the visit by Moody's, the world's second-largest rating agency. Joseph Maqhekeni, president of the National Council of Trade Unions, said Moody's representatives asked about the impact on labour of growth plans aimed at inclusiveness, and the status of economic growth. "The major thing they
This startup features big names like Coach, SmashBox, and Kate Spade - and unlike Amazon, Gilt or HauteLook it's fast, fun and really exciting.
Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas’s could have declined the invitation from the start, says Madala Thepa. Johannesburg - Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas’s confession is rare in politics. In some circles it is called wimping out. Nonetheless it was lifted-eyebrow-stuff and a scene-stealer from the disorienting 27 questions Pravin Gordhan has yet to answer. But what is important, those badly constructed questions or saving the economy? The sentiment in the statement issued by the Gupta family following Jonas’s famous confession is also interesting to read. But the sentiment is never explicit. It implies that Jonas has made some unknown missteps as deputy minister and that infractions
The Chief Executive Officer of MTN Nigeria, Ferdi Moolman, on Friday, said the company had formally withdrawn the court case it filed against the Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC. Mr. Moolman said in a statement in Lagos that the telecommunications company kept its promise to act in good faith and withdrew the court case. The statement said the withdrawal paved the way to continue settlement discussions with the Nigerian authorities towards an amicable resolution of the matter in the best interests of MTN and Nigeria. On February 24, MTN announced its withdrawal of the court case and made an initial payment of N50 billion without prejudice. The statement said the payment was made on the
The Pretoria News is reporting that Gordhan issued the warning at an ANC opinion maker’s forum in Durban. Hawks SARS Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan Gupta family Gupta Gupta ministerial job offers Mcebisi Jonas Guptas Pravin Gordhan on economy Gordhan JOHANNESBURG – Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan has reportedly slammed detractors of his deputy Mcebisi Jonas, warning against leaving the fate of 55 million South Africans to 'a single family'.   The Pretoria News is reporting that Gordhan issued the warning at an African National Congress opinion maker’s forum in Durban yesterday.   Without mentioning the Gupta’s by name, the finance minister warned the country cannot sacrifice democracy and sovereignty
Don't use the internet in the U.S until you've seen the truth about Online ID protection & anonymity CNN calling this "A game changer for all..
Zuma faces mounting pressure from traditional leaders over the imprisonment of AbaThembu king Dalindyebo, writes Mcebisi Ndletyana Johannesburg - “Sabata did something unheard of in the House of Thembu,” quipped Mda Mda, heightening the curiosity of his audience, which didn’t have to wonder for long, as the Mthatha-based former activist of the Unity Movement quickly broke the suspense: “He showed courage.” A renowned popular chronicler of the anti-apartheid history in Transkei, Mda explained that the AbaThembu hardly featured in the series of wars that the locals waged for more than a 100 years against the British colonialists. He was delivering a lecture at the Walter Sisulu University in 2010,
Copyright © 2016 News24Wire. All rights reserved. Distributed by AllAfrica Global Media (allAfrica.com). To contact the copyright holder directly for corrections — or for permission to republish or make other authorized use of this material, click here. AllAfrica publishes around 1,500 reports a day from more than 140 news organizations and over 500 other institutions and individuals, representing a diversity of positions on every topic. We publish news and views ranging from vigorous opponents of governments to government publications and spokespersons. Publishers named above each report are responsible for their own content, which AllAfrica does not have the legal right to edit or correct.
No single family should determine the fate of all South Africans, Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan said on Sunday. Speaking at the African National Congress-organised “Opinion Makers’ Forum” at his former school, Sastri College in Greyville, Durban, he said there was a “desperation in modern politics that made people want to discredit people who tried to do what was right”. In an apparent reference to the politically-connected Gupta family, Gordhan said: “No single family must determine the fate of 55 million South Africans. This is a phenomenon called cronyism. It is not unique to South Africa but we need a South African formula to fix it. “We can’t sacrifice democracy because a few people think
U.S & Canadian citizens making huge monthly salaries after new company goes viral. Experts calling it "The Best Way To Supplement Your Income Since..
Global marketing gurus have done a brilliant job of marrying lifestyle aspirations with premier luxury brands. Wearing a pair of Gucci sunglasses, donning a Guess T-shirt, clutching a Louis Vuitton bag, all topped off with a spray of Chanel No 5 epitomises an elitist way of life that millions aspire to. But there is more to it than the prestige. Whether justified or not, there is a perception of quality associated with top global brands, some of which have been around for more than 100 years. So when the price tag for a single item is more than some people spend on food a week, customers must feel it is well worth forking money out for. But what happens when the iconic brand you are buying is