2014-01~03
http://www.praguepost.com/czech-news/34232-friday-news-briefing-jan-3-2014

Friday news briefing — Jan. 3, 2014 - PRAGUE POST | The Voice of Prague
Bavarian border checks not aimed at Czechs, state’s interior minister says
The planned, more frequent Bavarian police random checks at the border with the Czech Republic are not aimed at Czech citizens, Bavarian Interior Minister Joachim Herrmann said today in reaction to a question by the Czech News Agency.
At the same time, he expressed objections to the information exchange with the Czech Republic about DNA profiles and car registration data. Herrmann also called on Czech bodies to take stricter steps against pervitine (methamphetamine) dealers and producers in the Czech Republic.
The minister presented his strategy of the fight with border crime in Schwandorf, Bavaria, today. It will be based on more intensive road checks near the Czech-German border, he said.
Herrmann noted he did not fear the checks could again provoke such sharp criticism from the Czech Republic as in the past. Czechs accept them much more now, he added.
"This measure is by no means aimed against our Czech neighbors," Herrmann stressed, adding that Bavarian police are now checking German drivers more than Czechs.
Checks at the German border were tightened in the past few years in reaction to the increasing smuggling of drugs, mainly pervitine, from the Czech Republic. The Czech interior minister and his counterparts from Bavaria and Saxony repeatedly met to discuss these problems.
Herrmann highlighted the positive effect of frequent checks saying they helped suppress border crime.
"Policemen uncovered more than 18,500 criminal offenses during these road checks until October 2013," he noted.
In 2012, Bavarian police seized 14.3 kilograms of pervitine, which was 22 percent more than a year before. In 2013 (until the beginning of December), policemen seized more than 34 kilograms, Herrmann recalled.
Herrmann said the information exchange with some partners in the European Union and Schengen system was not working as it should.
"The information exchange of DNA profiles and car registration data with the Czech Republic is not working in a satisfactory manner. We must still improve it to be able to catch perpetrators operating across the border quickly," Herrmann said.
Slovakia has admitted three Uyghur Chinese inmates released from the U.S. military prison in Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, helping U.S. President Barack Obama’s administration despite possible trouble with China, Daniel Anýž writes in daily Hospodářské noviny (HN) today.
On Thursday, Beijing officially protested against the transfer of the three Uyghurs, who are a Muslim minority in China, to Slovakia. Beijing expressed hope that Slovakia would not grant asylum to the three men but hand them to China. This statement clearly is a threat that it would not be good for Bratislava to do otherwise, Anýž writes.
He says several countries decided not to admit Uyghurs from Guantanamo in the past due to the pressure exerted by China, which has been persecuting Uyghurs as a problematic minority.
Slovakia already granted permanent residence permits to three former Guantanamo inmates in 2010. The men reportedly came from Egypt, Azerbaijan and Tunisia.
The prison at Guantánamo Bay in Cuba was founded in 2001 after the terrorist attacks on New York City and Washington, D.C. Obama promised to close it in 2009 after he had won the presidency.
The prison has turned into a symbol of injustice that is unacceptable to democracy, with dozens of people imprisoned without any charges because of a handful of terrorists, and it is bad for the United States and the West in general, Anýž writes.
A group of 22 Uyghur Chinese was the most controversial case from the beginning. In 2003, U.S. military investigators stated the group had no connections with al-Qaida or Taliban leaders and that it should be released, Anýž notes.
The release of the last three members of this group really is a landmark, as the White House put it, on the way toward the prison's closure, Anýž writes.
About 150 prisoners are still kept at Guantanamo, and the fulfillment of Obama's promise has been repeatedly postponed. Several countries have met Washington's request. However, the Czech Republic is not considering admitting any prisoners.
Anýž says Slovakia deserves the gratitude of Washington. Slovak representatives showed more courage than Czech politicians, he adds.
Developers sell 5,015 flats in Prague last year, 24.9 percent more year on year
Czech developers sold 5,015 new flats in Prague last year, 24.9 percent more on the year, and the best result since the crisis year of 2008, according to preliminary data of Ekospol made available to the Czech News Agency.
Ekospol, which has been monitoring sales in Prague, said 1,551 new flats were sold in the last quarter alone.
Evžen Korec, CEO and board chairman of Ekospol, said interest on mortgage loans that is low and stable in the long run is the reason behind the growth in sales.
Supply of very cheap projects (up to 45,000 Kč per square meter, including VAT) also contributed to the good result and so did purchases of apartments as a sort of investment, for instance, old-age investment.
"Investment purchases account for more than one quarter of our sales," Korec said.
Ekospol sold 653 new flats last year, a rise of 47.7 percent in annual terms.
Unlike the rest of the Czech Republic, the residential market in Prague is showing healthy and rational development. The market has managed to cope with a steep fall of prices relatively fast, Korec said.
It is no wonder Prague's market for new flats is growing for the fourth year in a row, he said. According to him, next year's development will be similar.
US citizen is suspected of killing four of his relatives in Brno in 2013 

Singer is now hoping to return to performing after vocal rehabilitation 

EU subsidies in 2008 to a conference center have come under scrutiny 

The last of the endangered birds that flew the coop has been caught 

Search for a word in the Macmillan Dictionaries Online simply by double-clicking on a word on the page.