2014-01~03
http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/business/2014-03/19/content_17358314.htm

Textiles fuel push for jobs in Xinjiang[1]- Chinadaily.com.cn
Female Chinese factory workers prepare yarn at at a textile plant in Tuokexun county, northwest Chinas Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region. [File photo/dfic.cn] 
Plan to develop the industry also aims to focus on stability in region
The Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region plans to develop the textile industry vigorously this year to create more jobs and help maintain stability, according to local officials.
"Textiles is a labor-intensive industry with a long production chain. The best option is to create a large number of jobs in southern Xinjiang," said Liang Yong, deputy director of the region's Commission of Economy and Informatization.
A top leader has also said that developing labor-intensive industry should be given prominence because it could help to solve the employment situation in southern Xinjiang.
There is also the need to maintain social stability in Xinjiang, said Yu Zhengsheng, China's top political adviser.
He made the comments last week while attending a group discussion for the Xinjiang delegation during the top legislature's annual session.
Aniwar Imin, director of the Xinjiang Department of Human Resources and Social Security, said that boosting employment has been a priority in southern Xinjiang.
"Xinjiang should promote labor-intensive industries and encourage people to change their views about employment. Securing jobs could help to narrow the income gap and eliminate unstable factors in society," he said.
He added that the central government could also create more opportunities outside the region for people from different ethnic groups.
Copyright 1995 - 



 . All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form. Note: Browsers with 1024*768 or higher resolution are suggested for this site.