2014-01~03
http://www.nst.com.my/world/14-killed-in-china-mosque-stampede-xinhua-1.456172

World | New Straits Times | Malaysia General Business Sports and Lifestyle News
CAIRO: A mortar attack on a checkpoint in Egypt’s restive Sinai Peninsula killed 13 policemen on Saturday, the interior ministry said in a statement.
JAKARTA: A 70-year-old Indonesian woman has been hacked to death in the remote east of the country by machete-wielding men who suspected her of performing witchcraft, police said Monday.
BELGRADE: A man blew himself up Monday in a bakery in the centre of the Serbian capital Belgrade, police said.
PARIS: French President Francois Hollande on Monday was set to hold his first formal meeting with victims of the November 13 attacks in Paris, three days after Belgian police captured key suspect Saleh Abdeslam.
DHAKA: Bangladesh on Monday banned boats from sailing through a key southwestern river after a ship loaded with coal capsized, threatening the sanctuaries of rare dolphins in the world’s largest mangrove forest.
DUBLIN: A bystander saved a baby after a car slid off a pier and plunged into the sea in Ireland, killing five people, including at least two children.
BRUSSELS: Belgian prosecutors on Monday said they had discovered the real identity of an accomplice in the Paris attacks, as they met with French counterparts to discuss the probe into November’s carnage.
JAKARTA: Thousands of Indonesian taxi drivers will take to the streets of the capital on Tuesday for a protest rally to demand the government prohibits ride-hailing apps like Grab and Uber, as a price war intensifies.
ATHENS: A total of 1,662 migrants have landed on Greek islands near Turkey since a landmark EU-Turkish deal on curbing the influx took effect on Sunday, a Greek coordination panel said Monday.
NEW YORK: Eli Berry cannot go to stores or restaurants without being asked if he is a man or a woman. A mall security guard once demanded that he show identification to use a public men’s room.
KOLKATA: Five people have been killed by wild elephants that went on the rampage, triggering panic in a village in eastern India, a local official said Monday.
NAYPYITAW: Myanmar democracy champion Aung San Suu Kyi will control the incoming government of her National League for Democracy (NLD) through her position as party leader, a senior official said, indicating she was unlikely to take a formal post in the administration.
SYDNEY: Environmental groups Monday urged greater action on climate change after the government declared the highest alert level over an epidemic of coral bleaching in the pristine northern reaches of Australia’s Great Barrier Reef.
GENEVA: Margarita Louis-Dreyfus, a Russian-born Swiss businesswoman who owns the French football club Olympique de Marseille, has given birth to twin girls at the age of 53, her spokeswoman said on Monday.
DONETSK: A Russian court on Monday found Ukrainian pilot Nadezhda Savchenko guilty of complicity to murder two Russian journalists in war-torn eastern Ukraine.
MOSCOW: Russian investigators on Monday were trying to restore the damaged cockpit voice recorder of a passenger jet which crashed at the weekend killing all 62 people onboard, in an effort to understand why it had tried to land in strong winds.
SYDNEY: Debris found earlier this month off the southeast African coast which some believe could be from a missing Malaysia Airlines flight has arrived in Australia for testing, officials said on Monday, two years after the plane disappeared.
SEOUL, South Korea: South Korea’s Yonhap news agency says North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
DIYARBAKIR, Turkey: Turkish authorities lifted a curfew imposed to fight Kurdish militants in an area of southeast Turkey’s largest city, Diyarbakir, on Monday but security was tight as Kurds celebrated the Newroz spring festival.
BANGKOK: About 750 passengers were stranded on Bangkok’s Airport Rail Link due to a power outage during Monday morning rush hour, prompting several people to walk along the train’s overhead tracks to the next station.
NEW YORK: Five cheetah cubs are fighting for their lives after being delivered prematurely at a Cincinnati zoo by a caesarean section, a procedure seldom performed during the birth of the endangered cats.
PARIS: A potentially critical conflict has gone largely unnoticed in southern Libya yet could open up a gateway to sub-Saharan Africa for the Islamic State group, analysts say.
BREBES, Indonesia: In a small faith healing centre in rural Indonesia, Sulaiman chanted in a confused fashion, tugged at a chain attached to his ankle, and shifted restlessly on a hard, wooden bench.
LOS ANGELES: The US government and Apple will face off in court on Tuesday in a closely-watched case that could have wide-reaching implications on digital security and privacy.
TOKYO: Two British ships arrived in eastern Japan on Monday to transport a shipment of plutonium — enough to make dozens of atomic bombs — to the US for storage under a bilateral agreement.
Haiti’s lower chamber of parliament on Sunday rejected a program submitted by Prime Minister Fritz Jean, lawmakers said, throwing up a new hurdle as the politically volatile country struggles to meet deadlines to transfer power from an interim to an elected government.
HAVANA: Driving rain, deserted streets and hordes of police – this was the Havana greeting Barack Obama on Sunday when he became the first US president to visit the Cuban capital in 88 years.
WASHINGTON: Donald Trump defended Sunday his campaign manager, who appeared to grab a protester at a rally for the Republican presidential frontrunner that was again marred by demonstrations and sporadic violence.
CAIRO: Egypt said on Sunday that Saudi Arabia has offered USD1.5 billion to help finance economic projects in the Sinai Peninsula, as Riyadh continues to bolster its ties with Cairo.
BRUSSELS: The lawyer to top Paris attacks fugitive Salah Abdeslam launched a furious legal fight Sunday to avoid extradition after Europe’s most wanted fugitive spent his first night in a Belgian prison.
JAKARTA, Indonesia: An Indonesian military helicopter crashed and burst into flames Sunday during a mission to capture the country’s most wanted militant, killing at least 12 people on board.
GEORGE TOWN: A mobile phone thief who was being chased by a teenager who witness him in the act, fell to his death from a third floor of a budget hotel here.
KUALA LUMPUR: Pas’s powerful Syura Council has given the go-ahead for the Islamic party to cooperate with any party for the sake strengthening Islam, but ruled out the possibility of joining Barisan Nasional.
© 2014. New Straits Times Press (M) Berhad (4485-H). All Rights Reserved.