2014-01~03
http://rt.com/op-edge/china-crimea-pashtunistan-taliban-281/

​China, Crimea and Pashtunistan — RT Op-Edge

 Let’s start with Pakistan. US counterinsurgency
 “experts” such as disgraced former Gen. David Petraeus’
 guru, David Kilcullen, insist Pakistan is imploding. No wonder;
 hacks like himself get paid to predict chaos.


 It’s much more nuanced, as usual. Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz
 Sharif is actually trying to prevent Pakistan from imploding.
 That's why he wants a deal with the TTP – the Pakistani Taliban.


 Sharif’s party, the PML-N, is conservative in religious and
 neoliberal in economics terms. It's intimately connected to
 Pakistani religious parties. Sharif knows he has to be careful in
 the Punjab region because of the local popularity of anti-Shiite
 jihadists – the Sipah-e-Sahaba outfit.


 A derivation of Sipah - the dreadful Lashkar-e-Jhangvi – also
 routinely kills a lot of Shiites in Sind and especially
 Balochistan. What Sharif has concluded is that he cannot allow an
 alliance between the TTP - the Pakistani Taliban, based in the
 tribal areas - with jihadi groups active in the Punjab.


 Sharif is also a businessman. He knows the only way to get the
 Pakistani economy back on track (as if it ever was...) is to end
 this civil war. That’s the rationale behind the current
 ‘peace process’. It’s what he told the Chinese (key
 allies) last summer, when he visited Beijing.


 For the moment the really nasty issues in the peace process have
 not been addressed. The TTP wants Sharia law all over Pakistan.
 No Pakistani government would ever accept that.


 The contact groups on both sides are immensely interesting. On
 the government side we find a retired general, Muhammad Amir, an
 ex-honcho of the notorious Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), the
 Pakistani CIA. But also ace journalist Rahimullah Yusufzai, based
 in Peshawar, arguably the top authority anywhere on the Pak
 tribal areas.


 On the TTP side we find none other than super-mullah Samiul Haq,
 the director of the ‘Taliban Harvard’ in Akhora Khattak
 near Peshawar, which formed generations of Taliban (disclosure;
 it was thanks to a letter signed by Haq that myself and my
 photographer were not thrown in jail by the Taliban in Ghazni in
 2000, when we ‘invaded’ an abandoned military base.)


 The Pakistani army does not like this ‘peace process’
 one bit. Especially the ISI, as they keep their very cozy
 connections with a lot of jihadi groups to serve Islamabad’s
 strategic interests vis-a-vis Afghanistan and/or India. It goes
 without saying that the Afghan Taliban, with Mullah Omar almost
 certainly still in Quetta (how come no Obama drone could ever
 find him?) as well as the Haqqani outfit, in North Waziristan,
 are still very close to the ISI.


 And back to Punjab, another jihadi nest of nasties -
 Lashkar-e-Taiba, which perpetrated the Bombay bombing in 2008 -
 are sort of ‘protected’ by the Pakistani army.


 But the TTP is something completely different. Unlike all these
 other jihadists, they attacked the Pakistani state and its army
 head on. That takes balls. No wonder the army sees them as an
 enemy of the state - on top of it manipulated by foreigners
 (guess who).


 The TTP is an impenetrable maze. There are at least 30 different
 outfits, who all pledged allegiance to Baitullah Mehsud in 2007.
 Obama’s drones keep killing Mehsuds (Baitullah in 2009,
 Hakimullah in 2013), but the TTP never dies. And the Mehsud
 family stays in the lead.


 I’d define the Mehsud family as a Pashtun guerrilla group based
 in the tribal areas very close to Afghanistan. The guerrilla is,
 yes, against the state, which they consider a bunch of traitors
 because they've been American collaborators since 9/11.
 Alternatively, one may see the US in Pakistan as essentially at
 war – for over a decade - with a Pashtun family.


 Now things have changed a bit. The new TTP leader is Mullah
 Fazlullah. He’s from Swat, and his base is in the Mohmand tribal
 areas, and even Kunar and Nuristan in Afghanistan (very hardcore
 places, ultra-conservative). So the key base is not Waziristan
 anymore. One wonders whether the Nevada drone gang is fully aware
 of it.


 There has been a lot of talk in Pakistan that mullah Omar himself
 has intervened, trying to unite the now disparate TTP factions to
 go on with the dialogue with Islamabad. Why? Because with NATO
 out of Afghanistan by the end of 2014, what the Afghan Taliban
 want is to assemble all Pashtuns on both sides of the border, and
 then advance to take over Kabul, in a replay of 1996.


 Washington, predictably, is quite fearful of an Islamabad-TTP
 peace process. This would allow that perennial bogeyman,
 ‘Al-Qaeda’, free rein in the tribal areas again. Yet
 there may be only a handful of remaining ‘Al-Qaeda’
 there; everyone's gone to the Levant.


 Still, Washington’s long game is to continue to generate endless
 conspiracy theories in Pakistan - betting on chaos in the country
 to sooner or later try to get hold of Pakistan’s nuclear weapons,
 as the ISI sees it. And yet, the current peace process has been
 more or less ‘approved’ by Washington. The drone war is
 more or less on hold. For now.


 Now to the elections in Afghanistan next month. Wily President
 Hamid Karzai is busy pushing ‘his’ candidate for
 president, Zalmay Rassoul. He appointed former interior minister
 and speaker of the lower house of parliament Younus Qanooni as
 the vice-presidential candidate, replacing the recently deceased
 Mohammad Fahim.


 Qanooni, like Fahim, comes from the Panjshir valley and was very
 close to the legendary Ahmad Shah Massoud, the Lion of the
 Panjshir assassinated by Al-Qaeda two days before 9/11. Qanooni
 was against the US bombing in 2001 and never minced his words
 criticizing Karzai.


 Karzai’s power play is brilliant because it reinforces his Tajik
 connection while undermining the rival candidacy of Abdullah
 Abdullah, Washington’s favorite. Rassoul now enjoys a
 cross-section Pashtun/Tajik appeal.


 The Afghan presidential election will be decided in the second
 round of voting. Then we will really see who the top mujahideen
 commanders – from Ismail Khan in Herat to Gul Agha Sherzai in
 Kandahar – are really endorsing. And how Karzai maneuvered to
 once again get what he wants.


 From Washington’s point of view Rassoul may be acceptable
 because he’s willing to sign the much controversial Status of
 Forces Agreement (SOFA) that will allow ‘residual’ US
 troops in Afghanistan.


 Or at least he said he will sign, after bribing all the warlords
 that matter. Rassoul knows if that happens the Taliban will go
 for his throat, even if he’s a Pashtun. More likely, if he’s a
 wily Pashtun, he’s saying one thing and thinking of doing
 another.


 So there are two parallel peace processes going on, in Pakistan
 and in Afghanistan. The key problem is that ‘peace’
 being reached in Pakistan may eventually translate into chaos in
 Afghanistan, because then the Afghan Taliban would be reinforced
 by the ‘liberated’ Pakistani Taliban in an offensive
 against the new government in Kabul.


 Some TTP fighters pursued by the Pakistani army are now safely
 parked across the border - especially in the aforementioned Kunar
 and Nuristan. And over there they would be protected by Afghan
 security services, as the Pakistanis complain.


 Make no mistake; Pakistani-Afghan rivalry remains extremely
 fierce. It wouldn’t be any other way; Afghanistan never
 recognized the Durand line, which has deprived it of many of its
 own Pashtun lands. Blame the British Empire over 100 years ago.
 This remains the key to all this mess.


 There’s no question Pashtuns on both sides of the border are
 paying immense attention to Crimea. A similar secession would
 result in their long-life dream – Pashtunistan. Their problem is
 that they would have to be fighting two central governments at
 the same time - Kabul and Islamabad. And in terms of
 representation, the Taliban, on both sides of the border,
 certainly do not answer for the majority of Pashtuns.


 China’s position adds even more spice to this brew. Beijing is
 focusing like a laser on the US and NATO withdrawing for good
 from Afghanistan at the end of the year. That’s one less hub of
 the US Empire of Bases – too close for comfort to the Chinese
 border.


 Beijing wants a profitable Afghanistan. It’s not happening in the
 foreseeable future. In 2008 Chinese Metallurgical Group and
 Jiangxi Copper Co bought a 30-year lease on Mes Aynak – the
 largest copper mine in the world - in Logar province, for a cool
 $3 billion.


 Then the Taliban started attacking the mine. And Beijing started
 regarding Afghanistan more like a security headache than a source
 of profits – even contributing in security cooperation with the
 Karzai administration.


 An extremely complicating factor is that Beijing has identified
 these Taliban attackers as originating from Pakistan. Add that to
 Uighurs doing a back and forth with Pakistan, where they receive
 training to ‘destabilize’ Xinjiang, and we have a major
 problem between staunch allies Beijing-Islamabad. Beijing is
 puzzled that Islamabad seems to be doing nothing to stop these
 infiltrations.


 It gets even murkier when it is quite well known in the region
 that some Uighur activists have been infiltrated/manipulated by
 the CIA – for decades. So if you’re crossing from northern
 Pakistan to Xinjiang, parallel to the Karakoram highway, there’s
 a strong possibility you’re an American spy – as Beijing sees it.


 Still that is not enough to provoke a serious split between
 Beijing and Islamabad. Both roughly agree on the US and NATO out
 of Afghanistan. Both roughly disagree on the Taliban having a say
 in the new Afghanistan (out of the question for China; depends on
 how pliable they would be, for Pakistan).


 Most of all, both definitely agree on more trade ties – with
 Pakistan fully profiting from a trade corridor from the port of
 Gwadar to Xinjiang. And both definitely agree that if Crimea ends
 up boosting the Pashtunistan dream, that would be a whole new,
 immensely unpredictable, and ‘destabilizing’ ball game.

The statements, views and opinions expressed in this column are solely those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of RT.