2014-01~03
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/jan/17/xinjiang-religious-extremists-china-terrorism

Xinjiang steps up fight against religious extremists in China | World news | The Guardian


Friday 17 January 2014 03.49 EST


Last modified on Wednesday 13 January 2016 10.46 EST


China's north-western area of Xinjiang will double its anti-terrorism budget in the coming year, state media have reported, raising concerns of an increased wave of repression in the ethnically divided region.
Xinjiang has stepped up what it calls a battle against religious extremism and terrorism in recent months, amid a spate of violent clashes between local authorities and native Uighurs, a predominantly Muslim ethnic group.
The region's police force will receive 2m yuan (£202,000) this year to combat terrorism, according to China's state newswire, Xinhua.
"We must constantly strike hard against violent terrorism, showing no mercy, in accordance with the law, and maintaining a high-handed posture," said Nur Bekri, the chairman of the Xinjiang regional government, according to the report.
Nicholas Bequelin, a Hong-Kong-based senior researcher for Human Rights Watch, called the increased anti-terrorism budget "one step further in an overall repressive strategy".
"[China's president] Xi Jinping has taken a very clear stance on Xinjiang," he said. "He's taking a hardline approach to Xinjiang affairs."
According to state media reports, Xi announced a "major strategy shift" in Xinjiang at a high-level political meeting last week, emphasising a prioritisation of "maintaining social stability" over economic development. The full text of the speech has not been released.
In October, a Uighur man drove a jeep through a crowd of pedestrians in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, killing five people and drawing national attention to Xinjiang's deep-rooted ethnic divide. Chinese authorities called the incident a terrorist attack and swiftly tightened security throughout the region; Uighur activists and human rights groups say the act may have been a violent protest against religious and cultural constraints.
On Thursday, the mayor of Beijing, Wang Anshun, announced a raft of forthcoming anti-terrorism measures in the capital, including a tightening of internet controls, according to the Hong-Kong-based newspaper the South China Morning Post.
Li Wei, an anti-terrorism expert at the China Institute of Contemporary International Relations, said the measures were largely prompted by the October attack. "Beijing needs to [address] … such problems because, even though they don't happen very often, each instance makes a huge social impact," he said, according to the newspaper.
On Wednesday, police detained the prominent Beijing-based Uighur economist Ilham Tohti, an outspoken critic of the Chinese government's regional policy. "The public security organs have detained him in accordance with the law," China's foreign ministry spokesman said, suggesting he would be likely to face prosecution.
US and European officials have expressed concern at the arrest. "I have called on the authorities to treat him in line with Chinese legislation, to substantiate the charges," said Markus Ederer, the European Union's ambassador to China, at a Friday morning press briefing in Beijing.
In a statement, the US state department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said: "The detention of Mr Tohti, who has been outspoken in support of human rights for China's ethnic Uighur citizens, appears to be part of a disturbing pattern of arrests and detentions of public interest lawyers, internet activists, journalists, religious leaders and others who peacefully challenge official Chinese policies and actions."
Bequelin said the arrest was consistent with the recent surge of hardline rhetoric. "It's not always the case that the line is set out so clearly by the top leadership on an issue," he said. "On Xinjiang, it is, and I think Tohti's arrest is a direct result of this – a new level of political tightening in respect to ethnic affairs issues."