2014-01~03
http://www.dw.de/thailand-holds-election-re-runs-in-five-provinces/a-17467623?maca=en-rss-en-top-1022-xml-atom

Thailand holds election re-runs in five provinces | News | DW.COM | 02.03.2014

Thailand is holding election re-runs in some of the provinces where voting in a February 2 election was disrupted by opposition protests. When complete, the polls could provide a mandate for a new government.


Thai officials said polls opened peacefully in five Thai provinces on Sunday for the re-runs, made necessary because of 
disruption to voting in last month's ballot.

"The polls are going peacefully - everything is under control and there are no problems, " election commissioner Somchai Srisutthiyakorn told the AFP news agency.

Opposition demonstrators prevented 10,000 polling stations from opening at the February 2 vote, stopping millions of voters from casting their ballots. The Election Commission said 18 percent of constituencies were affected. Voting remains to be completed in 18 of 77 provinces.

The disruptions meant that the election winner, Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, was unable to form a new government under Thai electoral law, which requires 95 percent of the 500 seats in the lower house of parliament to be filled.

Yingluck, who called the February election amid widespread protests calling for her resignation, has since remained in 
a caretaker role with limited policymaking powers.

The Election Commission said the re-run polls in all the affected provinces would likely take until April, with results to be announced only after they have been completed.

The final result is almost certain to see Yingluck confirmed in office, something anti-government protesters are unlikely to accept, leading to a continuation of the political divisions that have wracked the country for some eight years.

Protesters claim Yingluck is a mere puppet of her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, who was ousted as premier in a bloodless military coup in 2006 amid allegations of corruption and abuse of power.

After setting up protest sites at key intersections across Bangkok for weeks in a bid to "shut down" the capital, 
demonstrators have begun moving the focus of their operations to Lumpini Park in the center of the city following a 
spate of deadly attacks on rallies.

However, the opposition insists it will continue its struggle to end the influence of Thaksin's billionaire family on Thai politics. It is calling for the appointment of an unelected "people's council" to oversee changes to electoral and constitutional law before new elections take place.

Yingluck is also facing a number of legal challenges to her government, including charges of negligence over a controversial rice subsidy scheme that could see her removed from power.
Opposition protesters in Thailand have been dismantling barricades in the capital, Bangkok, in the wake of renewed violence. A city park is becoming the focus for rallies aimed at bringing down the government. (01.03.2014)
  

As Thailand's embattled prime minister faces negligence charges which could lead to her impeachment, the leader of the anti-government protests says he is willing to discuss an end to the months-long political crisis. (27.02.2014)
  

A bomb blast in the Thai capital, Bangkok, has claimed at least two lives and injured almost two dozen people. The explosion comes a day after an attack on a protest in the east caused the death of a child. (23.02.2014)
  

Since the February 2 elections, Thailand's interim premier has lacked the authority to rule the Southeast Asian country. Four people have recently died in riots. The government is running out of options. (18.02.2014)
  

Ballot-box blockades and a shortage of election staff prevented the smooth running of the Thai general poll. The full result won't be known for weeks, meaning little change to the current political crisis. (02.02.2014)
  

Thailand's National Reform Council is expected to pass a new constitution on Sunday, clearing the way for a referendum. But even its drafters admit the charter is undemocratic. Bastian Hartig reports from Bangkok.
Thailand's military leaders think a deadly bomb blast that ripped through central Bangkok on Monday was an attempt to "destroy the economy." Meanwhile, the death toll continues to rise.
Nearly a year after being ousted in a coup, ex-Thai PM Yingluck Shinawatra is to stand trial over a rice scheme scandal. Experts say a conviction is very likely, but the key question is how harsh the punishment will be.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
