2014-01~03
http://www.news.com.au/national/nsw-act/what-went-wrong-questions-raised-over-security-procedures/story-fnii5s3x-1226850844099

What went wrong? Questions raised over security procedures

 LEIGH Sales wanted answers from the PM on 7.30 last night, but there was one question he would not put up with.


 BOB Lyford yesterday revealed the horror of discovering his bludgeoned partner May Ritchie at her Freshwater home, and failing in his attempt at CPR.


 BILL Shorten says bring it on. But is the public ready for what could feel like a never ending election campaign?


 TONY promised no wrecking and no undermining when he lost the top job. His colleagues won’t be happy with this.


 SIX teenagers were approached by two groups of teens who appear to have been waiting for them as they left a restaurant in Sydney last night.


 MARTIN Place gunman Man Monis may have been working with an accomplice who drove him to the scene of the deadly siege, the inquest was told.


 A VIOLENT sex offender chose the wrong woman to attack with police praising the 21-year-old for turning the tables.


 THE chances of being hurt when travelling overseas are minuscule compared with the risk of illness from the flight to get there, figures show.


A Malaysian Police officer stands guard at the departure hall of the Kuala Lumpur International Airport.
Source: AFP



 THE customs security which vetted the passengers of MH370 has come under scrutiy as rescuers still search for the missing flight.
 

Malaysian authorities said two passengers who boarded the missing Boeing 777 were on stolen passports - prompting an internal investigation into customs security before the jet’s takeoff.
Defence Minister Hishamuddin Hussein said local and international intelligence agencies now had access to all available information about the two mystery passengers.
“We have shared information, both biometrics and visuals that have been recorded and this information is now being digested by the relevant agencies, both local and international,” Mr Hussein said.
“We have done a study of the whole manifest of all the passengers concerned.’’


Vietnamese military personnel prepare a helicopter for a search and rescue mission for the missing Malaysia Airlines plane.
Source: AFP


Zhao Yan, 18 and Hadrien Wattrelos, 17, students at a French school in Beijing.
Source: Supplied

Mr Hussein said the CCTV footage of the two passengers, from the time of check-in to boarding on flight MH370 would soon be released.
Last night some security experts said the passengers travelling on the stolen passport had an Asian appearance - despite travelling on European passports. This was later denied in the early hours of this morning, but has increased speculation about the security - or lack thereof - as the flight departed en route to Beijing.
Malaysia’s Home Minister Zahid Hamidi said last night: “I am still puzzled how come (immigration officers) cannot think — an Italian and Austrian but with Asian facial features.’’ Interpol said there was “great concern” passengers had gone through such flimsy checks and were checking data bases to check the validity of all passports.
There are now 40 ships and 34 aircraft from nine countries searching the seas off Vietnam and Malaysia for missing flight MH370 carrying 227 passengers — including three Australian couples — and 12 crew.
As the search stretches into its fourth day, authorities are considering a range of reasons for its disappearance.


This handout photo taken on March 9, 2014 and released by the Malaysian Maritime Enforcement shows Malaysian Maritime Enforcement personnel during search and rescue operations in the city of Terengganu.
Source: AFP

“There is talk about possible hijack and this is not discounted. We are looking at every angle, we are looking at every aspect of what could have happened to this aircraft,” Azharuddin Abdul Rahman, director-general of the Department of Civil Aviation in Malaysia, said..
“Again, we have to get concrete evidence ... we have to find the aircraft.”
Mr Rahman would not comment on the two men, captured on CCTV from the time of check-in to boarding the plane, or the five other passengers who mysteriously did not board the plane.
“All baggage of passengers not flying on that particular morning was removed from the aircraft.


A Malaysian Maritime Enforcement boat patroling the waters during search and rescue operations.
Source: AFP

The Chinese couple Yuan Li, 32, and Naijun Gu, 31, from southern Sydney who are among the passengers on-board the missing Malaysia Airlines flight had two young children living in China.
The couple’s former accountants at Jeffrey Todd & Associates confirmed they had a baby and a toddler living in China.
Also on board were Hadrien Wattrelos, 17, and Zhao Yan, 18, students at a French school in Beijing who were returning from the Malaysian leg of a two-week holiday along with Hadrien’s mother and younger sister.
A rescue hopper scrambled to investigate a “yellow object” in the seas found it was not part of the missing jet.
The mystery object has been sighted 140km southwest of Tho Chu Island.
MUSLIM Uighur separatists will be the top suspects if it is found terrorism was behind the plane crash tragedy.
The militants — who have intensified attacks on civilians in their fight against China for autonomy in Xinjiang region — are accused of the mass stabbings in Yunnan province 11 days ago which killed 29 people and injured 140.
The Uighur East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) was blamed for a suicide car attack in Tiananmen Square killing five in October and was behind bus bombings in 2008.
“This is not being ruled out. We have sent back Uighurs who had false passports before. We don’t know if there is a link,” a Malaysian official said ­yesterday.
Yunnan province governor Li Jiheng said there was currently no information to show that the mass stabbings and the missing flight were “necessarily connected”.
But an attack against a commercial aircraft, even one destined for Beijing, would be unprecedented for Uighur militants or ETIM, Professor Clive Williams of the Centre for Policing, Intelligence and Counter Terrorism at Macquarie University said.
Prof Williams said a lack of “chatter” picked up by security agencies, no claim of responsibility and no identified debris field also indicated causes other than terrorism.
Other terrorist groups active in South East Asia, from Jemaah Islamiyah and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front to Abu Sayyaf, have had links to al-Qaida.
But generally they restrict attacks to home soil, particularly the southern Philippines.
Radar
 data indicated the pilot may have inexplicably tried to turn back to
Kuala Lumpur, but analysts say the absence of any distress signal
indicates an event so sudden that the crew could not respond.
The terror theory’s credibility is hurt by the fact that — so far — no claim of responsibility has surfaced.
The
 MH370 case may draw comparisons the 2009 Air France crash which killed
200 people, where speed sensors failed causing the Airbus jet to stall
and lose altitude. In that case, pilots failed to react correctly and
lost control of the jet.
This
 is high on the list of possible causes. The sudden loss of contact is
consistent with a “sudden catastrophic event”. Experts believe it is
still possible to get a bomb on a plane despite the post-9/11 clampdown.

Aircraft
 engineering experts have conceded it is possible a broken wing tip
sustained by a Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 in 2012 could have
contributed to its disappearance. A metre-long section of the wing was
torn during the incident but the aircraft was sent to Boeing and was
repaired according to the manufacturer’s standards
The
 modern facility does not have a history of known security breaches, but
 security experts say the stolen passports indicate a “glaring flaw” in
the airport’s immigration clearance.
Not
 necessarily. Large numbers of illegal workers, as well as criminal
syndicates, are known to move between Malaysia and neighbouring
countries such as Thailand. The two suspect passports were reportedly
stolen in Thailand.
Yes.
 A pilot could lock his colleague out of the cockpit before turning
radars and other systems off and placing the aircraft into a death
spiral. This has happened twice before in 1997 and 1999.
This
 possibility is being widely discounted as all indications are that the
weather was fine in the area where contact with MH370 was lost.
Malaysia
 Airlines has said the plane was fuelled for at least eight hours of
flight. The Kuala Lumpur-Beijing route lasts six hours.
News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.