2014-01~03
http://www.livemint.com/Politics/ZHu2m9oLGAWKXIMJzRWjKL/Missing-Malaysia-flight-Interpol-says-examining-additional.html

Missing Malaysia flight: Stolen passports prompt terrorism concern - Livemint
US state dept said outfits like al-Qaeda have sought to crash planes into oceans to cover up evidence

Washington: The use of stolen passports by two passengers to board a Malaysia Airlines flight that vanished over South China Sea raises concerns that terrorists may have caused the plane’s apparent crash, say former US security officials who specialize in transportation safety.

 
 “Use of stolen passports is a tactic of terrorists trying to avoid detection, while groups including al-Qaeda have sought to crash planes into oceans to cover up evidence,” they said.
Oil slicks discovered Saturday in Gulf of Thailand by Vietnam’s military suggested the Boeing Co. 777-200 jetliner may have entered the sea there.
“No evidence exists of terrorism at this point,” said a US official following the case who asked not to be identified because the investigation is in its early stages.
“Even so, investigators are likely to consider the two passengers instant suspects and seek to establish their identities,” said John Magaw, a former administrator of the transportation security administration (TSA) and US Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF).
“That raised huge red flags—the stolen passports and the plane crashing over water,” said Magaw, who also was director of the US Secret Service and is now a security consultant.
“Those two things right there are highly, highly, highly suspicious.”
The Malaysian Airline System BERHAD plane, en route to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur, was carrying 239 people, including 153 Chinese passengers, three US and five Indian citizens.
Malaysia’s acting transport minister Hishammuddin Hussein said Sunday that he was in touch with international intelligence agencies about the fake passports.
“At the same time, our own intelligence have been activated and, of course, the counter terrorism units from all the relevant countries have been informed,” he told reporters at a briefing.
The governments of Italy and Austria confirmed that two passports used to board the flight were previously reported stolen by citizens of their countries.
“After investigators determine the identity of those who used the passports, they will check to see if they were on watch lists of suspected terrorists,” Magaw said.
“At least two passports recorded in Interpol’s records as lost or stolen were used by passengers on the flight,” the crossborder crime agency said Sunday in a statement.
“No checks of those passports were made by any country between the time they were entered into Interpol’s database and the departure of Flight 370,” it said.
“Whilst it is too soon to speculate about any connection between these stolen passports and the missing plane, it is clearly of great concern that any passenger was able to board an international flight using a stolen passport listed in Interpol’s databases,” Interpol secretary general Ronald Noble said in the statement.
The missing plane was a code-share service with China Southern Airlines Co, which said it sold seven tickets on the flight, including to people of Austrian and Italian nationality, according to the company’s microblog.
When asked about the two passengers who boarded with stolen passports, chairman Si Xianmin told reporters in Beijing: “The key is with border control and immigration departments on the ground.”
“Thai police are investigating the passports,” the Bangkok-based Post Today reported on its website, citing Panya Mamen, the police commander in Phuket province. They are looking at whether the documents were stolen by counterfeit passport gangs, the newspaper said.
Maraldi Luigi, an Italian man whose name appeared on the passenger list for the flight, attended the briefing held by the Phuket police, Post Today said. Luigi said his passport was stolen in Phuket in July 2013 when he used it to rent a motorcycle, and reported the loss to police, it said.
Kip Hawley, a former administrator of the US TSA, said the stolen passports and the prospect the plane crashed into the Gulf of Thailand makes the hair stand up on the back of my neck. “It sounds like a lot of other plots,” he said, referring to one in 2006 involving terrorists who wanted to down jetliners in the Atlantic Ocean by using liquid explosives. That plan was foiled by US and British officials.
Hawley, a consultant and author of Permanent Emergency, a book about his time at the TSA, said he has been especially concerned about bombs hidden in the shoes of passengers as they are powerful enough to bring down aircraft and security officials have grown lax about checking footwear.
US security officials last month cautioned airlines about a credible threat posed by shoe bombs. A spokeswoman for the US National Security Council, Caitlin Hayden, said in a statement Saturday that the US government is in communication across agencies and with international officials to provide any appropriate assistance in the investigation. She also said US officials believe it is too early to comment on the causes of the plane’s disappearance.
Her comments were followed by an announcement by the national transportation safety board that it was sending a team of US aviation accident investigators to assist in the probe of the flight, joined by experts from the federal aviation administration and Boeing.
Clive Williams, a visiting professor at Australian National University who specializes in security issues, said he was dubious so far of an act of terrorism. “Terrorism has to be politically motivated, and it’s unlikely it would be that,” he said. “The flights at higher risk are American flights, Israeli flights and flights going to North America.”
“That’s not to say it wasn’t caused by an explosion, but there can be other reasons for an explosion on an airplane other than terrorism,” said Williams, a former Australian intelligence officer. “There are a huge number of fraudulent passports around the world, mostly used for criminal purposes,” he said.
Nations hunting for the plane had little to go on, with no distress calls, emergency-beacon signals, bad weather or other signs why an airliner would lose touch in one of the safest phases of flight.
Malaysia has been vulnerable to terrorist activity and has been used as a transit and planning hub for terrorists, according to a 2012 report by the US state department. Still, the department said the country hasn’t suffered a serious terrorism incident for several years.
China, the destination of the plane, has occasionally suffered what it calls terrorist attacks committed by Uighurs, a predominately Muslim ethnic group from the Xinjiang region of the country’s northwest.
The governor of Yunnan, Li Jiheng, told reporters Sunday in Beijing there’s no evidence of a link between attacks in the provincial capital of Kunming and the missing flight. Uighur separatists were blamed for a 1 March knife attack at a train station in Kunming that killed 29 people, many of them migrant workers.
Malaysia doesn’t require an entry visa for citizens of most countries on short-term visits, although it introduced a biometric system in 2011 to record fingerprints of travellers at its ports of entry, according to the US state department. Bloomberg
