2014-01~03
http://www.opendemocracy.net/henryk-szadziewski/uyghur-rights-2013-report

Uyghur rights and China | openDemocracy
The situation of the Uyghur minority in north-west China became even more precarious in 2013, says Henryk Szadziewski.
In the
first few days of the new year, I had a conversation with a refugee
from the era of Polish communism. A former teacher, my friend
described how the Soviets had set about undermining Polish culture:
“The communists tried to stop us from speaking Polish and told the
staff at my school that we couldn’t be Catholics. It’s very
difficult to describe how terrifying it is to lose control over
something as fragile as your identity.” 


To anyone
who follows the issue of the Uyghur people living in the north-west of the People's Republic of China (or what the Uyghurs themselves regard as East Turkestan), concerns over cultural loss through
government restrictions placed on language use and religious practice
are familiar. In specific reference to the Uyghurs, the scholar Arienne
Dwyer identified
these two aspects of identity as cornerstones of Uyghur
distinctiveness. 

My
companion’s reflection, that the experience of cultural suppression under communism in Europe directly affected individuals' sense of the destruction of their society, is echoed frequently by Uyghurs today. Yet there is a notable attention-gap in the media and the international community about the Uyghurs' plight (though the incident in Beijing's Tiananmen Square on 28 October was a brief exception).
This overall neglect is even more glaring in light of the Uyghurs' experience in 2013, which was peppered with deadly incidents that may have cost the lives of over 200 people, Several of these incidents were sparked by issues of marginalisation, and many appear to reveal evidence of state
and government malfeasance. In this context, the shortage of
questions being posed to the Chinese authorities by international organisations is notable. In an information-scarce environment such as
the Uyghur region, such inattention also carries the risk that the situation deteriorates without proper challenge or scrutiny.  

The Uyghur people's modern relationship with China is often sketched by analysts in terms of historic milestones. For example, the onset of the reform period in
China in the late 1970s ushered in a
period of détente; a signal that this was eroding came with unrest in 1990 in Baren. The definitive turning-point was, however, reached when Chinese forces killed Uyghur
protesters in Ghulja in 1997. If this led Uyghurs in general to lose whatever belief they had had in the Chinese state, the deadly inter-ethnic violence
in Urumchi in 2009 is cited as the moment when relations between Han and Uyghur communities became irretrievable. 
Against this background, 2013 can be viewed as the year when Han political, economic and
cultural dominance over the region reached a level where the Chinese
state felt able to act with lethal confidence in response to Uyghur discontent.True, the end of the year
was marked by the release
to Slovakia of the final three Uyghurs detained in Guantanamo, thus putting to rest an arduous process of resettling twenty-two Uyghur men swept into the net in the early years of the "war on terror". The year as a whole, however, will be defined for many Uyghurs by the pattern
of violent events in the Uyghur region.  

The
following table (assembled with the help of Michael Phillips of the
 World Uyghur Congress) is an overview of incidents reported during 2013. The “Cause” column has been compiled by the author from available
sources and are broadly categorised. Many of the details of these
incidents are not confirmed, underscoring the lack of information at
hand:
RFA
 mentions 3 Uyghurs killed in Hotan’s Tuanjie Square on the same
 day
If the
details above can be substantiated, up to 219 people died in violent
incidents in Xinjiang in 2013. Uyghur civilians comprise the
overwhelming majority of the dead, and in most instances they were killed by
Chinese security forces. The large number of Uyghurs shot in 2013 has
led some Uyghur activists
to speculate that a "shoot first" policy may be in effect in the
Uyghur region. Chinese state media have alleged
that ten "terrorist attacks" occurred in Xinjiang during the year, including
the incidents in Hanerik, Lukchun and (on 16 November) in Seriqbuya. But in these instances, and in the incidents unconfirmed by
Chinese authorities, the violence seems to have been the result of localised religious disputes and
heavy-handed security measures.  

In May 2013, the
Uyghur Human Rights Project (UHRP) issued a report
on the narrowing confines of Uyghur religious practice and belief. The UHRP recorded how Uyghurs were unsure what
constituted "legal" religious expression in face of a
bewildering number of regulations imposed by various levels of government.
The restrictions often cover customary practice in a way that adds further
confusion. In particular, there are official curbs on mosque
attendance, training of imams, observance of Ramadan, dress, communal
religious education and publications, as well as the Hajj
pilgrimage - in short, on almost every public demonstration of the
Islamic faith. 

Among the few incontrovertible facts about the 2013 events is that little can be
independently verified. Chinese state media reports on violence in Xinjiang are notable for
their brevity, and several incidents were followed by local
information blackouts. The control the state
maintains over the narrative of whatever happens is itself cause for deep
concern. The framing of the unrest as terror removes from consideration
underlying cultural and economic tensions and further drives the
Uyghur to the margins of contemporary China. In addition, state
narratives are almost all observers have to work with when analysing
the patterns of Uyghur discontent. 

The
Chinese government’s ability to dominate information
on the Uyghur issue signals its determination to deny counter-narratives any space to make a challenge. The sentencing of Uyghurs on terror-related charges in March
and June, and the punitive sentences given to Uyghurs charged with spreading "online jihad" in July
and October, further indicate this resolve. Indeed, Uyghurs' difficulties in expressing themselves online - most visible in the
unprecedented ten-month shutdown of internet access after the 2009 troubles, followed by the
re-emergence of a heavily censored network - is an important aspect of the decreasing space
permitted by Chinese authorities since 2009. All the trials were conducted in conditions that fell far below
international standards.

The
deadly incident
near Tiananmen Square in October projected the Uyghur issue into global
headlines, with observers (both in China and overseas) debating whether the car-crash could be labeled "terrorism"; the United States was criticised for double-standards over its response. Again, the
swiftness with which information was contained was
striking, even though the incident occurred in the heart of Beijing. Social-media posts,
especially those containing photographs, were censored
and related online
searches blocked; non-Chinese journalists were briefly
detained
when reporting on-site (a stratagem frequently used when their colleagues attempted to report on the 2013 unrest in
Xinjiang). When the academic Sean Roberts suggested
that Tiananmen was an act of desperation in response to
failed government policies, state media strongly
condemned his reasoning. 

There is little to encourage hope for more enlightened governance
in the Uyghur region in 2014. Xi Jinping’s announcement of a “major
strategic shift” in which Xinjiang officials are enjoined to focus on "stability maintenance" [my italics] dispenses with the
usual rhetoric of economic development as a panacea for the region’s
ills.
This stance emphasises the need for more reliable information on
violence in the region as the foundation for analysis and understanding. So far, there are few calls from the international community for more openness from China on this issue. But without accountability, the Chinese will be even more confident in
continuing with repressive policies. At a
fundamental level, concerned parties should be wondering why over 200
people were killed within twelve months with little to no transparency
over the details of the incidents that precipitated the bloodshed.

It may not always be possible, especially for outsiders, to grasp emotionally the personal
and communal damage of cultural loss at the hands of state forces. The capacity to do so starts with the instinct to comprehend what is at stake for
marginalised peoples with little to no agency to
enact change, and at least to begin asking the right questions. 

Henryk Szadziewski is senior researcher of the Uyghur Human Rights Project. He lived in the People's Republic of China for five years, including a three-year period in Uyghur-populated regions. Henryk Szadziewski studied modern Chinese and Mongolian at the University of Leeds, and completed a master's degree at the University of Wales, where he specialised in Uyghur economic, social and cultural rights
Blaine Kaltman, Under the Heel of the Dragon: Islam, Racism, Crime and the Uighur in China↑ (Swallow Press, 2007)
James A Millward, Eurasian Crossroads: A History of Xinjiang↑ (C Hurst / Columbia University Press↑ , 2007)
Henryk Szadziewski is senior researcher of the Uyghur Human Rights Project.
 He lived in the People's Republic of China for five years, including a 
three-year period in Uyghur-populated regions. Henryk Szadziewski 
studied modern Chinese and Mongolian at the University of Leeds, and 
completed a master's degree at the University of Wales, where he 
specialised in Uyghur economic, social and cultural rights
We encourage anyone to comment, please consult the oD commenting guidelines if you have any questions.