2014-01~03
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2014-02-15/violent-clash-in-chinas-western-region-leaves-15-dead-according-to-local-media/1265504

Violent clash in China's western region leaves 15 dead according to local media | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
Fifteen people have been killed in a violent clash in China's western region, in what officials have labelled a terrorist attack, state media said.
Fifteen people have been killed in a violent clash in western China, according to local media reports.
Xinhua wire service reported that a group approached police in the Muslim province of Xinjiang and a clash ensued in Aksu prefecture.
Chinese media reports say that eight of the alleged attackers were shot by police, and that three others blew themselves up.
Xinjung is a traditionally Muslim province where many local ethnic Uighurs are seeking independence from China.
There has recently been a dramatic escalation in violent conflict in the region, between Uighurs and the Chinese security forces
A leading member of the ethnic Turkic Uighur community in exile said such attacks were a response to heavy-handed Chinese rule in the region, while US secretary of state John Kerry, on a visit to Beijing, expressed concern over the state of human rights in Xinjiang.
China has been upset by what it sees as a failure by the US to properly condemn terrorism in Xinjiang and its talking up of human rights there.
Foreign minister Wang Yi told Mr Kerry on Friday there was no place for "double standards".
"Both sides have a responsibility to fight terrorism," the foreign ministry cited Mr Wang as telling Mr Kerry.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.