2014-01~03
http://www.economist.com/news/leaders/21598647-after-brutal-attack-china-communist-party-needs-change-its-policies-towards

The burden of empire | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
A GROUP of knife-wielding assailants, apparently Muslims from western China, caused mayhem and murder on March 1st in the south-western Chinese city of Kunming, stabbing 29 people to death at the railway station and injuring 140 others. The attack has shocked China. The crime against innocents is monstrous and unjustifiable, and has been rightly condemned by the Chinese government and by America. But as well as rounding up the culprits, the Communist Party must face up to an uncomfortable truth. Its policy for integrating the country’s restless western regions—a policy that mixes repression, development and Han-Chinese migration—is failing to persuade non-Han groups of the merits of Chinese rule.
The party says the attackers were “Xinjiang extremists”, by implication ethnic Uighurs, a Turkic people with ties to Central Asia who once formed the majority in the region of Xinjiang. The killers may have been radicalised abroad with notions of global jihad. Whatever the truth, there is no doubt that Uighurs are committing ever more desperate acts. Scarcely a week passes in Xinjiang without anti-government violence.
The party claims that Xinjiang has been part of China for 2,000 years. Yet for most of that time, the region has been on the fringe of China’s empire, or outside it altogether. An attempt to incorporate these lands began only with the Qing dynasty’s conquests in the mid-18th century. (The name Xinjiang, “new frontier”, was bestowed only in the 1880s.) During the chaos of the 1940s, Uighurs declared a short-lived independent state of East Turkestan. But from 1949 the Communists began integrating Xinjiang into China by force. Demobbed Chinese soldiers were sent to colonise arid lands, the state repression of Uighurs drawing heavily on the Soviet tactics for handling “nationalities”. Uighur resentment of the Han runs deep. The feeling is mutual. Many Chinese are openly racist towards Uighurs, and the government thinks them ungrateful. In 2009 hundreds of people were killed during street fighting between Uighurs and Han, who now make up two-fifths of Xinjiang’s population and control a disproportionate share of its wealth.
The Kunming killers’ motives may never be known. But fears of militant Islamism arriving at the heart of China must not obscure the broader problem of Chinese oppression in Xinjiang. Recent crackdowns hit at the heart of Uighur identity: students are banned from fasting during Ramadan, religious teaching for children is restricted, and Uighur-language education is limited. Many Uighurs, like their neighbours in Tibet, fear that their culture will be extinguished. Xinjiang and Tibet (and Inner Mongolia) are still China’s colonies, their pacification under the Communist Party a continued imperial project. Were it not for the Dalai Lama’s restraining influence, violence in Tibet might be as bad as it is in Xinjiang. As it is, over 100 Tibetans have burned themselves to death in protest at Chinese rule.
There is a large military presence in China’s west. The government seems to believe that unless Uighurs and Tibetans are held in check by force, the western regions could break away. That is always a danger. But suppression, which leads to explosions of anger, may increase the risk, not mitigate it.
The only way forward is to show Uighurs (and Tibetans) how they can live peacefully and prosperously together within China. The first step is for the party to lift the bans on religious and cultural practices, give Uighurs and Tibetans more space to be themselves, and strive against prejudice in Chinese society. Economic development needs to be aimed at Uighur and Tibetan communities. Otherwise, there will be more violence and instability.
The West can punish Putin’s Russia for its belligerence in Ukraine. But only if it is prepared to...
The boom in emerging-market investment by rich-world firms has led to plenty of disappointment
Birth rates are not falling in Africa as fast as they did in Asia. More contraception would help
Getting creditors not taxpayers to rescue banks seemed like a good idea, but it has not worked well...
Having occupied Crimea, Russia is stirring up trouble in eastern Ukraine
Europe and America are outraged by the annexation of Crimea, but lack a strong response
The future is bright for solar power, even as subsidies are withdrawn
Barack Obama’s failure to control entitlement spending puts his good ideas at risk
Asking tax collectors to regulate election spending is a terrible idea
Critics say that Barack Obama dismays allies and emboldens foes. They’re half-right
Costly Brazil, dysfunctional Argentina, bureaucratic Mexico. Our correspondents go shopping for the...
The Parti Québécois treads softly on the question of independence
The government and voters are putting economics before atoms, opening the way for Japan to restart...
The action moves to the courts as anti-government protests fizzle
A brutal knife attack shocks China and raises questions about its policy towards ethnic minorities
The prime minister opens parliament by declaring pollution the enemy
The Communist Party takes a parting shot at Gary Locke
Prospects for agreement on Hong Kong’s political future do not look bright
Hopes that Africa’s dramatic population bulge may create prosperity seem to have been overdone
Americans, Saudis and Qataris are in an unusually knotty diplomatic tangle
The French president badly needs a fresh start to regain his zip—and that is likely to mean a new...
The government is reversing some of its predecessor’s sensible pension reforms
A bastion of loyalty to Recep Tayyip Erdogan is tested by recent scandals
Sacked editors are a sign more of financial than political pressures
Germany needs to do more than work the telephones to resolve the Ukraine crisis
Britain needs a strategy to make the best use of its shrinking military capabilities. It isn’t...
The boom in British gangster literature may be coming to an end
Britain’s prostitution laws are a mess. The proposed alternatives are worse
New and mysterious, the campaign organiser is credited with mighty powers
British spies are bruised by Edward Snowden, trusted by the public and need better oversight
How a modest but canny man is approaching the complex task of leading the Roman Catholic church
Autonomous cargo vessels could set sail without a crew under the watchful eye of captains in...
Giant batteries: The missing piece of the renewable-power jigsaw may now have been found in the form...
Power transmission: How to build a real supergrid by making existing electricity lines more...
High-speed computing: Although it works, a much-hyped quantum computer fails its toughest speed test...
Truffle farming: How mapping technology is being used to discover new places to grow savoury and...
Ornithopters: Flying like a bird has long captured the imagination. The latest way to do so is...
Smart labels: The 40-year-old barcode has a new, more intelligent rival that can store information,...
Molecular communications: Researchers are looking at ways to broadcast messages using chemical...
Intellectual property: After being blamed for stymying innovation in America, vague and overly broad...
Semiconductors: As it becomes harder to cram more transistors onto a slice of silicon, alternative...
Bioprinting: Building living tissue with a 3D printer is becoming a new business, but making whole...
Conductive fibres: From lighter aircraft to electric knickers, flexible filaments raise a wide range...
Electromagnetic launchers: Hurling objects with electrical energy is giving the catapult a new lease...
Angela Belcher is a materials scientist who makes things with viruses. She is now using them to...
Western firms have piled into emerging markets in the past 20 years. Now comes the reckoning
A judge finds foul play behind a controversial case against Chevron
China’s anti-pollution drive will make it a good place for clean-energy firms
How the Danish firm became the world’s hottest toy company
New proposals to reform subsidised flood insurance do too little to reduce risk
The Bank of England faces questions over its role in rigged forex deals
New concerns surround the way the world gold price is set
A new book examines the world’s love-hate relationship with the dollar
The slowdown in rising temperatures over the past 15 years goes from being unexplained to...
An exotic giant virus is thawed from the Russian tundra
A trenchant collection of short stories from the author of “Birds of America”
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more