2014-01~03
http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/03/01/china-attack-idUSL3N0LY0A120140301?feedType=RSS&feedName=cyclicalConsumerGoodsSector

UPDATE 6-At least 28 die in terrorist attack at Chinese train station -reports | Reuters
* At least 28 killed by "terrorists" at Kunming station
* Attack occurs before China's annual meeting of parliament

 (Adds pictures on state television)
BEIJING, March 2 At least 28 people were killed
by knife-wielding attackers in a "violent terrorist attack" at a
train station in the southwestern Chinese city of Kunming, and
police shot dead five of the assailants, state media said on
Sunday.
Another 113 people were wounded, the official Xinhua news
agency said, revising down a previous higher figure. It said the
attack had taken place late on Saturday evening.
Police were searching for around five others of the
unidentified attackers, it said.
Kunming resident Yang Haifei told Xinhua that he was buying
a ticket when he saw a group of people, mostly wearing black,
rush into the station and start attacking bystanders.
"I saw a person come straight at me with a long knife and I
ran away with everyone," he said, adding that the attackers
caught those who were slower. "They just fell on the ground."
Graphic pictures on the Twitter-like microblogging service
Sina Weibo showed bodies covered in blood lying on the ground at
the station.
State television showed police wrapping a long, sword-like
knife in a plastic bag, amid heavy security at the station.
Chinese President Xi Jinping ordered no effort be spared to
track down those behind the attack.
"Severely punish in accordance with the law the violent
terrorists and resolutely crack down on those who have been
swollen with arrogance," Xinhua quoted him as saying.
"Understand the serious and complex nation of combating
terrorism," Xi said. "Go all out to maintain social stability."
Domestic security chief Meng Jianzhu was on his way to the
scene, Xinhua said.
Weibo users took to the service to describe details of what
happened, though many of the posts were quickly deleted by
government censors, especially those that described the
attackers, two of whom were identified by some as women.
"No matter who, for whatever reason, or of what race, chose
somewhere so crowded as a train station, and made innocent
people their target - they are evil and they should go to hell,"
wrote one user.
The attack comes at a sensitive time as China gears up for
the annual meeting of parliament, which opens in Beijing on
Wednesday and is normally accompanied by a tightening of
security across the country.
China has blamed similar incidents in the past on Islamist
militants operating in the restive far western region of
Xinjiang, though such attacks have generally been limited to
Xinjiang itself.
China says its first major suicide attack, in Beijing's
Tiananmen Square in October, involved militants from Xinjiang,
home to the Muslim Uighur people, many of whom chafe at Chinese
restrictions on their culture and religion.
Hu Xijin, editor of the influential Global Times newspaper,
published by the ruling Communist Party's official People's
Daily, wrote on his Weibo feed that the government should say
who it suspected of the attack as soon as possible.
"If it was Xinjiang separatists, it needs to be announced
promptly, as hearsay should not be allowed to fill the vacuum,"
Hu wrote.

 (Additional reporting by James Pomfret in Hong Kong; Editing by
Kevin Liffey, Alistair Lyon and Dan Grebler)
A look at women who serve in America's military.  Slideshow 
Using citation analysis to identify authors whose papers wield outsized influence
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.