2014-01~03
http://www.timesofmalta.com/articles/view/20140303/world/Witnesses-recall-fear-and-chaos-after-China-attack.509032

Witnesses recall fear and chaos after China attack - timesofmalta.com

An injured man being pushed at a hospital after a knife attack at Kunming railway station, Yunnan province. Photo: Reuters
Witnesses to chilling violence at a Chinese train station placed under heavy security yesterday recalled moments of fear and chaos after at least 29 people were killed in what authorities called a terrorist attack by Xinjiang militants.
Officials said a group of knife-wielding “terrorists” from the restive Xinjiang region launched a pre­meditated attack at the Kunming Railway Station in China’s southwest on Saturday night. More than 130 people were wounded.
Armed riot police stood guard as people streamed into the railway station yesterday only hours after the attack, one of the worst of its kind in China in recent memory.
Standing near shops about 50 metres from the site, a parking attendant surnamed Chen said he could not believe what was happening when he saw the attackers.
“I walked out and I saw a person with a knife this big, Chen said, spreading his arms wide.
“Then I saw five or six of them. They all had knives and they were stabbing people madly over by the first and second ticket offices,” he said.
Police shot four of the attackers dead and captured one, state news agency Xinhua reported. About five others were on the run, it said.
Xinhua quoted the Kunming city government as saying evidence at the crime scene showed the attack was carried out by Xinjiang separatist forces.
The attack comes at a sensitive time as China gears up for the annual meeting of its largely rubber-stamp parliament, which opens in Beijing on Wednesday and is normally accompanied by a tightening of security across the country.
Word of the violence spread quickly, with graphic pictures that showed bodies covered in blood posted to the Twitter-like micro­blogging service Sina Weibo – posts that were later deleted by government censors. State television showed police wrapping a long, sword-like knife in a plastic bag.
Shop and restaurant workers said hundreds of people had fled into their stores seeking refuge.
“Last night everyone ran over into my supermarket. The supermarket was full of people, including two passengers who had been stabbed,” Ren Guangqin said inside his supermarket.
Scores of patients from the attack spilled into corridors from overflowing wards at Kunming’s No. 1 People’s Hospital where they were being treated. In the neurosurgery department, several patients had head injuries.
A 20-year-old university student, Wu Yuheng, said the attackers had tried to target people’s heads. One had swiped his long knife and just nicked him on the scalp.
“I was terrified ... they attacked us like crazy swordsmen, and mostly they went for the head and the shoulders, those parts of the body to kill,” he said, laying on a bed in a hallway close to the elevators.
China’s domestic security chief, Meng Jianzhu, vowed those responsible would be brought to justice.
“This brutal attack on defenceless, innocent people by violent terrorists devoid of conscience exposes their inhuman and anti-social nature,” Xinhua quoted Meng as saying.
The attack marked a major escalation in the simmering unrest that had centred on Xinjiang, a heavily Muslim region in China’s far west strategically located on the borders of Central Asia.
It is the first time people from Xinjiang have been blamed for carrying out such a large-scale attack so far from their homeland, and follows a smaller incident in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square in October that shook the Communist Party leadership.
China stepped up security in Xinjiang after a vehicle ploughed into tourists on the edge of Tiananmen Square, killing the three people in the car and two bystanders. China labelled it a suicide attack by militants from Xinjiang.

See our
Comments Policy

Comments are submitted under the express understanding and condition that the editor may, and is authorised to,
disclose any/all of the above personal information to any person or entity requesting the information for the
purposes of legal action on grounds that such person or entity is aggrieved by any comment so submitted.

Please allow some time for your comment to be moderated.


Subscribe to gain access to our premium content and services. Your subscription will also enable you to
view all of the week's e-paper editions (both Times of Malta and The Sunday Times of Malta), view exclusive
content, have full access to our newspaper archive to download editions from 1930 to today, and access the
website in full from overseas. All of this will also be available to you from our tablet and mobile apps.

Copyright © Allied Newspapers Ltd., printed on - 21-03-2016 - Printed content is for personal use only, and should not be distributed