2014-01~03
http://www.khaleejtimes.com/kt-article-display-1.asp?xfile=data/international/2014/March/international_March80.xml&section=international

China captures 3 more suspects in station attack - Khaleej Times
Two men light up candles and before a group prayer for the victims on a square outside the Kunming Railway Station where more than 10 assailants slashed scores of people with knives.-AP
Police have captured the three remaining suspects in a slashing rampage at a train station in southwestern China that killed 29 people, state media said Monday.
Authorities say the attack in Kunming city that also wounded 143 was carried out by separatists from the far-western region of Xinjiang.
Clashes in Xinjiang between authorities and ethnic Uighurs over the past year have left scores dead, but the assault Saturday evening occurred more than 1,500 kilometeres (900 miles) to the southeast in Yunnan province, which has not had a history of such unrest.
Citing a statement from the Ministry of Public Security, the official Xinhua News Agency said a “terrorist gang” of six men and two women led by a person identified as Abdurehim Kurban was responsible for the attack.
Xinhua said police shot and killed four of the attackers, who used knives to slash at crowds of people, and captured an injured female suspect at the scene.
The brief Xinhua report did not identify the ethnicity of the eight or say how the final three suspects were identified and captured.
Xinjiang is home to a simmering rebellion against Chinese rule by some members of the Uighur population, and the government has responded there with heavy-handed security.
Another unprecedented attack attributed by authorities to Uighurs occurred last October in Beijing. Three assailants and two tourists were killed in the attack at Tiananmen Gate.
In Washington, the State Department said it did not have any independent information about the identity or the motivation of the attackers.
Spokeswoman Jen Psaki said Monday that based on information reported by Chinese media, the violence in Kunming “appears to be an act of terrorism targeting random members of the public.” She said the US deplores violence directed at innocent civilians, regardless of the cause.
For 13 years in Karachi, deaf and mute Indian girl waits to go home. READ MORE
The draft agreement outlines 17 goals with 169 specific targets on... READ MORE
Moderate leaders like Thomas Isaac are against any confrontation with the SNDP as it has considerable sway over the Ezhavas, who forms the...READ MORE
The AP Reorganisation Act, passed in 2014 when UPA was in power, had promised special status for the residual AP after the bifurcation.READ MORE
Mohammed bin Rashid, Mohammed bin Zayed receive Yemeni Vice-President ... READ MORE
The landmark project to include the world's tallest residential tower,... READ MORE
'Friendship between man and woman depends on culture' READ MORE
The woman, who was allegedly confined to the flat by the Asian pimp,... READ MORE
One-month notice is all it takes to quit the job
Hundreds dead, millions displaced as monsoon rain heaps misery on Asia
Abu Dhabi introduces smart system to rescue traffic accident victims
Landslides triggered by heavy rains kill at least 16 people in Nepal
Fresh wreckage found on French island of Reunion 'matches' MH370
Five reasons Adam Sandler is no longer a movie star
11 Omani pilgrims killed as bus collides with truck on Saudi highway
24% fuel price hike is fine if salaries rise, say residents
Want to disappear forever and yet live a normal life? Here's help
Dubai Celebrity Smash: Hollywood stars Dennis Quaid, Don Johnson confirmed
Get the latest news around the World in your inbox, so you dont missout on the action.