2014-01~03
http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/world/archives/2014/03/11/2003585403

China rights groups rally for Uighurs after knife attack - Taipei Times
Chinese rights activists voiced alarm on the Internet over rising discrimination against ethnic Uighurs in the wake of a deadly attack at a Chinese train station that the government has blamed on militants from the western region of Xinjiang.
Top Chinese officials have noted mounting anxiety and resentment between the country’s majority Han Chinese and Muslim Uighurs from Xinjiang since an attack in Kunming on March 1 left 29 people dead and injured about 140.
Online accounts describe growing intolerance toward Uighurs across China, ranging from evictions from apartments to taxi drivers refusing to pick them up. After the train station attack, Reuters reporters saw signs in restaurants and hotels in Kunming saying Uighurs were unwelcome.
Rights activists have taken to social networks to decry the reported abuses and challenge the characterization of Uighurs as dangerous or extremist.
“Because of the Internet we can learn about the many instances of Uighurs facing discrimination, from being unable to stay in hotels and having their street stalls chased away to being accused of being terrorists,” prominent dissident Hu Jia (胡佳) said.
While more than 100 people, including several Chinese policemen, have been killed in unrest in Xinjiang since April last year, the slaughter at the train station in Kunming was one of the worst single acts of what the Chinese government has called militant violence.
Beijing has not explicitly accused Uighurs, but referred to the perpetrators as Xinjiang extremists.
China accuses armed Uighur groups of having links to Central Asian and Pakistani Islamist militants, and of carrying out attacks to establish an independent state called East Turkistan.
There is no evidence or even suspicion from official channels that Uighur militants may be linked to the disappearance of a Malaysian Airlines flight over the weekend.
However, conjecture about their involvement by some on China’s Sina Weibo microblog raised alarm among many other users.
“This will only deepen ethnic misunderstanding and make Uighurs’ plight more difficult,” said Li Fangping 李方平), a human rights lawyer representing Uighur academic Ilham Tohti, who has championed Uighur rights and is facing separatism charges.
The US, EU and international rights groups have demanded the release of Tohti.
Advocates of Tohti say he has challenged official versions of several incidents involving Uighurs, including one in Tiananmen Square in October last year, that China says was its first major suicide attack.
His case is a sign of the Chinese government’s hardening stance on dissent in Xinjiang, where Uighurs make up less than 50 percent of the population.
Comments will be moderated. Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned.