2014-01~03
http://www.ifex.org/china/2014/02/07/human_face/

The human face of the free expression crackdown in China - IFEX
What would you do if your publisher was detained after something so innocuous as delivering a can of paint to a friend? What if your colleague was detained incommunicado, his wife arriving home to find 30 or 40 police officers rampaging their home, their young children threatened by force when they tried to move from the couch? What about a leader of the human rights organization you support? What if he was sentenced to prison for speaking out for you? And what if you were forced out of the country in which you had been working for more than six years because of a supposed technicality? That's the thing about crackdowns on free expression: they have human faces. Yao Wentian, a Hong Kong-based publisher who was priming to publish a scathing new book by Independent Chinese PEN Center member Yu Jie, was detained in October 2013 when he traveled from the special administrative region (Hong Kong) into the mainland next door. He's being charged with "smuggling prohibited items" and has been held in a prison hospital because of deteriorating health. As we noted in Creativity and Constraint in Today's China, dissident Chinese authors, even those living inside China, might only find publishers for their books in Hong Kong or Taiwan - their work is often banned on the mainland. Those works might then find their way inside China in suitcases or in scans of pages attached to an email. That a Hong Kong publisher - one known to work with dissidents, including the Independent Chinese PEN Center itself - was arrested, and that a trumped-up charge was used to justify his detention, is more than a worrying development. Ilham Tohti, a Uyghur PEN Member and scholar at Minzu University in Beijing, has faced harassment since riots broke out in his homeland in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in the summer of 2009. Last fall, he was rear-ended and his family was threatened. Now, he has vanished. Chinese authorities admit to holding him, but will say not a word about where. Tohti has peacefully expressed his opinions, scholarly and otherwise, about the simmering resentment of the Uyghur people - much like the Tibetans - over the Chinese government's repression of their culture, language, and speech. Yet he's being accused of engaging in separatism, a charge lobbed at the Dalai Lama when government officials call him a "wolf in monk's robes." The penalty is hefty - up to life in prison. There are citizens - non-writers - who are speaking out on these issues and speaking up for those accused. There's a grassroots civil society movement that has taken hold since Liu Xiaobo was put away for 11 years for launching Charter 08 in 2009. But if you happen to be leading those calls for the government to protect its citizens' rights, you'll be put away, too. Xu Zhiyong, who wrote movingly in the New York Times about the 100 self-immolations in Tibet at the end of 2012 (the number has since grown to over 120), is now serving a four-year sentence for "gathering crowds to disrupt public order." Supporters gathered around the courthouse to protest the proceedings against Xu and were dragged away by police. Journalist Andrew Jacobs reported on that side of the story in a video on the New York Times website. He, too, was at the center of a free expression struggle over the last few months: he was one of two dozen journalists from the New York Times and Bloomberg News teased with the possibility that their visas to work in the country might not be renewed at the end of the year. In the end, Jacobs' was granted, but his colleague Austin Ramzy was shut out. Ramzy, a veteran correspondent who worked for Time magazine for six years before moving over to the New York Times last year as a contributor, was accused of violating Chinese visa regulations by not changing his visa type while awaiting new press credentials for the New York Times and continuing to work under his exisiting - unexpired - visa. But he handed in his accreditation for his previous employer in May 2013 and requested a new one. He never received it. It was a game of tit-for-tat after the Times exposed the wealth and corruption of high-ranking Chinese officials. Ramzy was the casualty this time, but more and more it is the Chinese people who are getting the losing hand. The New York Times has a website in Chinese. It's been blocked since its launch in 2012 - one of many Chinese language websites unseen by everyday Chinese because of the strong arm of the censor. The message seems clear: it doesn't matter if you're western, Han Chinese, Uyghur, or a citizen of a slightly freer municipality. If you speak out against the regime, or aid your countrymen in doing so, or just simply report on what you see, you're going to pay the price. So take a minute and perform this exercise: Close your eyes, and imagine you were a writer, a publisher, a PEN supporter living in China. What do you see?
Draft counterterrorism law would require telecoms and ISPs to provide backdoor access and encryption keys to government
Strike by journalists calling for end to censorship met with state-led ideological campaign
The 100-page report shows that Tibetan refugee communities in Nepal are now facing a de facto ban on political protests, sharp restrictions on public activities promoting Tibetan culture and religion, and routine abuses by Nepali security forces.
"Crackdown on bloggers and social media users follows presidential transition"
IFJ's report documents the continued deterioration of press freedoms in Mainland China, as well as Hong Kong and Macau. It takes its title in direct response to Chinese authorities adopting more repressive measures in 2013 reminiscent of the Mao era four decades ago, including direct censorship, Internet surveillance, abuse of legal process, harassment and intimidation, and televised confessions of journalists and bloggers without trial.
A growing number of Chinese assert basic rights, share uncensored information online, and challenge perceived injustice despite the regime’s hostility toward organised dissent
President Hu Jintao, the leading jailer of press freedom defenders in the world
More than half of imprisoned journalists from minority regions, Tibet and Xinjiang
China "has more journalists, bloggers and cyber-dissidents in prison than any other country"
Authorities take "unprecedented step of rounding up over 30 of the most outspoken critics and 'disappearing' them for weeks"
Direct and indirect suppression of speech, books, music and other materials considered morally, politically or otherwise objectionable.
In recent years, the space afforded to civil society to operate freely has been shrinking dramatically across the world, presenting a serious threat to democracy and human rights. Eastern Europe and Central Asia (EECA) have been especially badly affected by this shrinking political space.
The report surveys the rocky landscape for media and public discourse since the ruling military junta lifted the curtain on the southeast Asian nation in 2012 after five decades of isolation from the modern world.

World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers
29 October 2015 


This report scrutinizes legislation covering freedom of expression and religious freedom in the Balkans, and whether satire and blasphemy are in any way regulated in these countries.

Center for Independent Journalism - Romania
 8 July 2015 


Despite its Constitutional commitment to free speech, India’s legal system makes it surprisingly easy to silence others. Routine corruption, inefficiency, and the selective enforcement of vague and overbroad laws allow individuals, or small groups, to censor opinions they find distasteful. - See more at: http://www.pen-international.org/the-india-report-executive-summary-and-key-findings/#sthash.TIIM2xbu.dpuf
As Globe International Center (GIC) reported, from 2012-2014, violations against journalists and the media increased compared to previous years and journalists faced external threats and intervention in their professional work, different types of pressures, threats, censorship in distribution, demands to reveal their information sources, to question and give testimony in mass by law enforcement bodies, especially by the General Intelligence Agency, use of criminal defamation law by politicians and public bodies or public officials censoring the media.
As the election looms for later this year, incidents in 2014 and in early 2015 involving the press raises serious questions on the genuineness of media freedom in Burma. The situation is alarming as the state seems to have heaped all the faults and fines on the media in the past year, which has seen a media worker being killed in October on the pretext of national security. International assistance has poured into the country to develop the media aimed at lifting and sustaining the state of media freedom. However, a viable press freedom environment seems unlikely to materialise in Burma before the end of this administration.
The media in Tripura is still dependent on the government for financial help, giving them an unprecedented upper hand to control press freedom in the state. As long as the political party in power is satisfied, the media is deemed to be okay otherwise there is an incredible pressure on the journalists as they have to not only endure insults but also face demotion in rank as well as being refused accreditation. - See more at: https://samsn.ifj.org/media-in-north-eastern-state-of-tripura/#sthash.0GypROMb.dpuf
In Dala, PEN Myanmar experienced a rare opportunity to work with a group of 200 or so high school children from the local state secondary school, which stands adjacent to the monastery compound.
There are far too many countries where news and content providers constantly face a very special and formidable form of censorship, one exercised in the name of religion or even God. And with increasing frequency, this desire to thwart freedom of information invokes the hard-to-define and very subjective concept of the "feelings of believers."
From August 28 to October 15, 2014, PEN American Center carried out an international survey of writers1 , to investigate how government surveillance influences their thinking, research, and writing, as well as their views of government surveillance by the U.S. and its impact around the world.
Legal regulation in the field of freedom of expression became more stringent as a result of abrupt introduction of amendments to the already undemocratic law ‘On Mass Media’ in December 2014.
Global press freedom has fallen to its lowest level in over a decade, according to the latest edition of Freedom House's press freedom survey. The decline was driven in part by major regression in several Middle Eastern states, including Egypt, Libya, and Jordan; marked setbacks in Turkey, Ukraine, and a number of countries in East Africa; and deterioration in the relatively open media environment of the United States.
This legal analysis examines the compliance of the 2014 News Media Law of Myanmar with international standards on freedom of expression and media freedom.
Political intolerance, activities of fundamentalists and drug trafficking groups, government impunity, and the continued existence and application of repressive speech laws, continue to limit FoE rights in many countries of the region.

Association for Freedom of Thought and Expression
24 April 2014 


The 100-page report shows that Tibetan refugee communities in Nepal are now facing a de facto ban on political protests, sharp restrictions on public activities promoting Tibetan culture and religion, and routine abuses by Nepali security forces.
IFJ's report documents the continued deterioration of press freedoms in Mainland China, as well as Hong Kong and Macau. It takes its title in direct response to Chinese authorities adopting more repressive measures in 2013 reminiscent of the Mao era four decades ago, including direct censorship, Internet surveillance, abuse of legal process, harassment and intimidation, and televised confessions of journalists and bloggers without trial.
Hungary’s independent media today faces creeping strangulation. State capture of Hungarian media is unfolding slowly but surely, principally through the “soft censor- ship” of financial incentives and influence that affect media outlets’ editorial content and economic viability.

World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers
28 January 2014 


Decade-long efforts to promote media reforms in Serbia have foundered. This report describes the mechanisms of a growing “soft censorship” that denies Serbia’s citizens their right to a free and independent media and offers recommendations that can help dismantle these insidious practices.

World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers
28 January 2014 


World Report 2014 is Human Rights Watch’s 24th annual review of human rights practices around the globe. It summarizes key human rights issues in more than 90 countries and territories worldwide, drawing on events through November 2013
Join Index on Censorship, writers, journalists and artists from around the world to condemn the shocking seizure of Turkish independent media group, Zaman. 


النظام المصري يطارد الصوت الوحيد الباقي لضحايا جرائم حقوق الإنسان: المجتمع المدني
https://t.co/HaLhbuTpkg @CIHRS_Alerts @afteegypt – 5:03 PM, 21 March 2016
555 Richmond Street West, Suite 1101, P.O. Box 407
 Toronto, ON, Canada, M5V 3B1
 Tel: +1 416 515 9622
 Fax: +1 416 515 7879
Contact us
IFEX publishes original and member-produced free expression news and reports. Some member content has been edited by IFEX. We invite you to contact [email protected] to request permission to reproduce or republish in whole or in part content from this site.