2014-01~03
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/xinjiang-governor-vows-crackdown-separatists

Xinjiang Governor vows to crackdown on separatists | TODAYonline
BEIJING — A government leader in the western region of Xinjiang has said officials would “rigidly crack down” on separatist groups in the area and that foreign forces were behind separatist activities.
The remarks by Xinjiang Governor Nur Bekri signalled that the Communist Party would tighten security measures throughout the region after a knife attack killed 29 people last weekend at a train station in the south-western city of Kunming.
Xinhua, the state news agency, said the evidence pointed to terrorists from Xinjiang. Chinese officials have not disclosed the ethnicities of the Kunming attackers, but have said the leader of the eight-person group was a man called Abdurehim Kurban, a name that has led many Chinese to assume that Muslim Uighurs, many of whom live in Xinjiang, are responsible.
Mr Bekri made his remarks during a question-and-answer session on Thursday after a public meeting of Xinjiang delegates on the second day of the National People’s Congress, the annual meeting of a rubber-stamp legislature.
“There are certainly some foreign forces and people who don’t want to see a united, strong China led by socialism and by the party,” Mr Bekri added. These people were instigating and manipulating things from behind, he said.
Chinese officials generally will not admit to the existence of significant ethnic tensions in the country, despite intense cycles of violence in the Xinjiang and Tibetan regions. Instead, they often blame outsiders for igniting the violence.
Meanwhile, the Beijing police issued a warning on Thursday in response to online postings offering different interpretations of the Kunming attack. Some prominent users of the Weibo microblogging site were told to stop posting hurtful comments, including suggestions that the authorities had misled the public over the attack.
“One or two public intellectuals have shown scant regard for the facts, confused black and white. Their comments have hurt the people’s feelings, and (other users) hope the police will deal with this,” the statement said.
The users whose comments were singled out were well-known commentators with thousands or even millions of followers. AGENCIES