2014-01~03
http://ca.reuters.com/article/topNews/idCABREA0G00R20140117

China detains prominent Uighur scholar for 'breaking law' | Top News | Reuters
BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese police have detained the country's most high-profile Uighur academic, an outspoken critic of official policies in the restive far-western region of Xinjiang, on suspicion of "breaking the law", the government said on Thursday.
Wednesday's detention is the latest indication of the government's increasing hardline stance on dissent surrounding Xinjiang, where violent riots in the past year have killed at least 91 people, rights activists say.
Xinjiang is home to the Muslim Uighur people who speak a Turkic language. Many resent what they see as oppressive treatment by the government, although Beijing says they are granted wide religious, cultural and linguistic freedoms.
Police in Beijing seized Ilham Tohti, a prominent Uighur economist who has championed the rights of the Uighur community in Xinjiang, at his home and his whereabouts were unknown, his wife and close friend told Reuters.
Tohti has challenged the government's version of several incidents involving Uighurs, including what Beijing says is its first major suicide attack involving two men from Xinjiang in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, by pointing out inconsistencies in the official accounts, said Nicholas Bequelin, a senior researcher at Human Rights Watch.
"Ilham is suspected of breaking the law," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a daily news briefing.
"The public security organs have detained him in accordance with the law. The relevant departments will now deal with him in accordance with the law."
The U.S. State Department said it was deeply concerned by reports that Tohti had been taken into custody with at least six of his students.
  Continued...
International Editions :

Africa  | 
 Arabic  | 
 Argentina  | 
 Brazil  | 
 Canada  | 
 China  | 
 France  | 
 Germany  | 
 India  | 
 Italy  | 
 Japan  | 
 Latin America  | 
 Mexico  | 
 Russia  | 
 Spain  | 
 United Kingdom  | 
 United States
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.