2014-01~03
http://www.bignewsnetwork.com/index.php/sid/219400647

US releases three Chinese Uighurs from Guantanamo Bay prison
Our eNewspaper network was founded in 2002 to provide stand-alone digital news sites tailored for the most searched-for locations for news. With a traditional newspaper format, more than 100 sites were established each with a newspaper-type name to cover the highest-ranked regions, countries, cities and states. Each site operates independently providing around-the-clock local news coverage, global & business updates, RSS feeds, and news releases.
Established in 1999, each News.Net site specializes in local news, weather, international headlines, business and finance reports. The News.Net directory of sites covers every major region, country and city around the world, as well as U.S. states and industry sectors. Each independently-operated portal is networked throughout the social media spectrum and is administered by Mainstream Media EC on behalf of Big News Network.
The three had languished in the US military prison for over a decade despite facing no charges. They were last members of the ethnic minority from China to be held at Guantanamo.
The US has hailed the release as a "significant milestone".
The released detainees were flown to the Slovakian capital Bratislava, where the US said they were "voluntarily resettling".
"This transfer and resettlement constitutes a significant milestone in our effort to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay," Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said in a statement, thanking Slovakia for taking the three men in.
Yusef Abbas, Saidullah Khalik, and Hajiakbar Abdul Ghuper, who were transferred from the US military jail in Guantanamo Bay, southeastern Cuba, were the last of a group of 22 ethnic Chinese Muslims captured in Afghanistan in 2001.
The trio had languished at Guantanamo for more than a decade being suspected as allies of the Taliban. Despite prior military assessments they had no ties to al-Qaeda or the Taliban.
In 2008, a federal judge ruled that the Uighurs were being held unlawfully and ordered their release. Their transfer was delayed by repeated legal wrangling and attempts to find a country willing to accept them.
Slovakia had accepted three other Guantanamo prisoners in 2009 and allowed the resettlement of the Uighurs after other countries refused because of pressure from the Chinese government, which has sought to take custody of the men.
"Slovakia deserves a lot of credit because they were willing to do what large countries like the United States, Canada and Germany were unwilling to do, which was to resist diplomatic pressure from China and the stigma of Guantanamo," said Wells Dixon, a lawyer with the New York-based Center for Constitutional Rights, who worked for years trying to secure the men's release, reports AP.
With these transfers, a total of nine detainees have departed Guantnamo in December, and 11 since last summer, when President Obama revived his efforts to close the prison by appointing Cliff Sloan as a new State Department envoy for the effort to winnow down its population of low-level detainees.
There are 155 prisoners remaining at Guantnamo. Of those, about half have long been approved for transfer if security conditions can be met in the receiving country, the bulk of whom are Yemenis, reports NYT.
In a statement, Sloan said, "We deeply appreciate Slovakia's humanitarian assistance in accepting these three individuals from Guantnamo who were in need of resettlement," and he portrayed the relationship between the United States and Slovakia as strong and close.
"All 22 Uighurs from Guantnamo now have been resettled to six different countries, and these three resettlements are an important step in implementing President Obama's directive to close the Guantnamo detention facility," he said.
The US says it refuses to repatriate Uighur detainees to China because of the risk they could be mistreated. China has cracked down hard on Uighur dissidents who oppose rule from Beijing.
Slovakia - a member of the EU and Nato - also accepted three inmates from Guantanamo in 2010.
Since 2001 the prison on Cuban soil has housed suspects detained by US forces during operations against al-Qaeda and the Taliban.
Their transfers to Slovakia, which the military said were voluntary, come days after Obama signed into law a new version of the annual National Defense Authorization Act. In that law, Congress extended restrictions on transferring Guantnamo detainees into the United States, but relaxed some restrictions on transferring them to other countries.
In a statement he issued when signing the bill on Dec. 26, Obama reiterated his belief that closing the Guantnamo prison was a good policy and suggested vaguely that some of the transfer restrictions might be unconstitutional constraints on his powers, echoing assertions he has made when signing previous versions of the law.
"The detention facility at Guantnamo continues to impose significant costs on the American people," Obama said.
"I am encouraged that this act provides the executive greater flexibility to transfer Guantnamo detainees abroad, and look forward to working with the Congress to take the additional steps needed to close the facility", reports NYT 
