2014-01~03
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-02-13/an-magnitude-68-earthquake-strikes-china/5256434

Magnitude 6.8 earthquake strikes western China - Australia Network News - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)
A magnitude 6.8 earthquake has struck China's far western region of Xinjiang, the US Geological Survey said.
The tremor was only 12.5 kilometres deep but hit about 270 kilometres east-southeast of Hotan, an extremely remote and sparsely populated area.
The USGS had previously put the magnitude at 6.9, but later downgraded it.
Another tremor of magnitude 5.7 hit the same area five minutes later, five kilometres deep, followed by a series of aftershocks of up to 4.2 magnitude, China's Earthquake Networks Centre said.
China's government put the epicentre in Yutian county in the far south of Xinjiang, which is mostly desert and mountain but also has a small farming belt.
"We were at the office at the time and felt strong shaking, the windows were rattling," a reporter in Keriya county near the epicentre told state broadcaster CCTV.
The Xinjiang earthquake administration said on its official microblog that the nearest settlement to the epicentre was 50 kilometres away, and that the Yutian government had yet to receive any reports of damage.
The Xinjiang government says it plans to send a 20-person rescue team to the area.
China is regularly hit by earthquakes, especially its mountainous western and south western regions.

 First posted 
 
 February 13, 2014 05:53:14
 

Malcolm Turnbull has shown crossbench senators the hangman's noose and their minds will now be focused on one thing: survival.
The PM's manoeuvres over the budget, double dissolution and industrial relations legislation have a familiar Turnbullian feel.
Unless you make plans and talk to loved ones you're unlikely to have any say in how and where you die.
In a fast-changing competition, which AFL teams can improve enough to break into this year's top eight?

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.


AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)
