2014-01~03
http://www.news.com.au/world/dead-in-mosque-stampede-in-chinas-ningxia-region/story-fndir2ev-1226795724426?from=public_rss

14 dead in mosque stampede in China's Ningxia region

 APPLE CEO Tim Cook has launched the new Apple iPhone SE and a fresh version of the iPad Pro at a special event in California.


 WHITE House insiders have revealed where Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull stands on US President Barack Obama’s list of favourite world leaders.


 A MAN who made headlines for allegedly having sex with his mistress on a Las Vegas Ferris wheel has been gunned down in front of his fiancee.


 FORGET overcrowding, in this country they actually have to shut down prisons because they have too many empty cells.


 UPDATING: Gunfire and explosions have echoed through the Mali capital of Bamako, as terrorists attacked a central hotel used as a EU training facility.


 BARACK Obama’s landmark visit to Cuba is set to thaw relations between the Cold War foes. But so far, his trip has been overshadowed by this picture.


 PROSECUTORS have identified a new accomplice in last year’s deadly Paris attacks and he is still on the run.


 LAITH Ashley’s is one of the hottest new male models on the scene. But the 26-year-old is breaking down barriers after coming out as transgender.


Fourteen people are dead after a stampede in a mosque in China's Ningxia region.
Source: Supplied



 Fourteen people were killed and 10 injured in a stampede during a gathering at a mosque in northwest China's Ningxia region, state media has reported.
 

The stampede occurred around 1pm local time on Sunday while traditional food was being handed out to people attending an event to commemorate a late religious leader, Xinhua news agency said, citing the local government.
The injured were hospitalised, with four in critical condition, the brief report said.
An investigation was under way into the cause of the stampede at the mosque in Xiji town, some 320 kilometres (200 miles) northwest of Xian.
Ningxia region is home to the Chinese-speaking Hui minority, who are mostly Muslim but distinct from the Uighurs of Xinjiang.
Located on the upper reaches of the Yellow River, the semidesert region was the scene of a Muslim rebellion in the 19th century but has no recent history of ethnic tensions or other strife between the Hui and the Han majority.
In contrast, restive Xinjiang has seen several deadly clashes between Uighurs and security forces in recent months which the authorities in the remote northwest region have blamed on separatist "terrorists''.
Ningxia is seeking to develop its fledgling winemaking industry which has already attracted the likes of French luxury group LVMH, owner of Dom Perignon champagne among other brands.