2014-01~03
http://thehimalayantimes.com/rssReference.php?headline=Airport+security+lapse+not+ruled+out&NewsID=408228

The Himalayan Times
Unified CPN-Maoist lawmaker Lharkyal Lama, who was released on bail today after spending seven days in police custody, was re-arrested for investigation into an old fraud case.
Superintended of Police at the Metropolitan Police Range, Kathmandu, Pradhyumna Karki said Lama was handed over to Department of Foreign Employment for investigation into a two-year-old fraud case.
Lama was accused of duping youths of Rs 21.9 million promising to send them abroad.
Karki, who is also the spokesperson for the MPR, said it was up to the DoFE to decide whether to keep him under detention for further investigation or not.
“We detained him after DoFE requested for his detention, as they could not complete investigations against him today and tomorrow is a holiday,” Karki said.
Earlier, Kathmandu District Administration Office released Lama on bail after he deposited Rs 66,700 for his release.
On March 13, Lama was taken into police custody after the Commission for the Investigation of Abuse of Authority found 14 bullets in his locker in Nepal Investment Bank Limited, Durbar Marg, and handed him over to MPR.
The CIAA had recovered the bullets during a search in connection with allegations against him of amassing property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
The District Administration Office, Kathmandu, had remanded him to five-day judicial custody from the date of his arrest for investigation into arms and ammunition case under the Some Nepal Laws (Amendment and Rearrangement) Act.
On March 18, MPR, Kathmandu, produced him before the DAO, which extended his remand for three more days.
During interrogation, Lama denied that the bullets recovered from his locker were his.
A foreign employment fraud case was filed against Lama at the DoFE in September 2013 for allegedly swindling unemployed youths of approximately Rs 21.9 million.
The post Lharkyal Lama freed on bail, re-arrested on fraud charge appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
The accords with China will greatly help Nepal diversify its trade and considerably reduce its economic vulnerabilities
Nepal and China have concluded historic agreements of far-reaching importance to Nepal on Monday, on the second day of his week-long visit to China, in the Great Hall of People in Beijing in the presence of Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli and his Chinese counterpart Li Keqiang. The long-felt want of the Nepali people for a transit transport treaty with China, has been fulfilled now. China has also agreed to build the Xiarwa boundary river bridge, in Hilsa, Humla, which will remove the transport barrier between the Chinese border and Nepal’s remote Karnali region, extending a lifeline to the region’s economy. These, along with the other agreements and memorandums of understanding, and letters of exchange signed concluded on the occasion, will further widen and strengthen the bilateral relationship of mutual advantage, particularly helping the landlocked Nepal to diversify its trade, to strengthen cross-border connectivity, to expand Nepal’s development infrastructure, and to open a window of opportunity to promote Nepal’s prosperity. Some of the other documents signed relate to Chinese economic and technical assistance in implementing the Pokhara regional international airport project, which includes Chinese soft loan to finance the project, feasibility study on Chinese assistance in the exploration of oil and gas in Nepal as well as on the Nepal-China Free Trade Agreement.
As reported, a joint statement will be issued on the deals reached between the two countries, which are expected also to identify some other areas of bilateral cooperation, probably the construction of Keyrung-Kathmandu and Kathmandu-Pokhara-Lumbini railway tracks, construction of a transmission line between Nepal and China, the Upper Arun Hydropower Project construction, as well as the fuel import from China, on which a memorandum of understanding was signed some time ago. The full significance of PM Oli’s visit will be known after the conclusion of the visit, but the ten agreements, MoUs and letters of exchange clearly show that they cover a comprehensive nature of bilateral cooperation, which can be expected to benefit Nepal and Nepalis in a number of ways. India and China being emerging economic powers in the world and Nepal lying between the two, it can immensely benefit from this and from their economic interactions. Our policy makers need to do homework thoroughly, set the country’s economic priorities and exploit fully the opportunities they offer.
Trade means both export and import. Till now, Nepal’s imports have exceeded its exports several times; therefore, our policy makers need to explore the potentials of Nepali exports, identify the areas, and make policies to develop them so that the country’s balance of trade with both India and China will considerably improve, helping it grow fast economically. The accords with China will greatly help Nepal diversify its trade and greatly reduce its economic vulnerabilities. The agreements should be implemented with all sincerity without losing time. For this, the Keyrung-Ruswadagi road will have to be sufficiently upgraded and finished within the deadline of two years. The rest will be taken care of by entrepreneurs, business people and the general public with proper policy and incentives provided by the government. PM Oli’s China visit has already proved successful, and will be long remembered by this nation for its far-reaching positive implications for Nepal.
There are few openings for dentists in government  hospitals. These hospitals have more dentists than they can employ. As a result, the Nepal Dental Science Association has asked the government to fill the vacancies with qualified dentists. The predicament is due to the hospitals employing people who have undergone short-term courses as a result of which many certified dentists are unemployed.
The country is offering courses in dentistry and many dentists are trained every year. But these dentists have little job opportunities. If this is the case, then we should stop permitting colleges to run dental courses as their graduates cannot find jobs despite their qualifications and expertise. Under the circumstances, the authorities should monitor the dental clinics to see to it that only the certified dentists are providing treatment.
The post EDITORIAL: Landmark visit appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
As soon as a child marriage by eloping is identified in communities, schools and police should jointly nullify such “marriages” in order to stop the parents and societies from accepting it
“As I did not have enough to eat or wear clothes properly, I thought I would get a better life, so I agreed to marry when I was 14 years old” said Kamu BKa, a resident of Madi municipality, Jiwanpur Makwanpur. She had been enticed by her neighbors to “marry” Jayram BKa a 25 year old man when she was still a minor. However, although marriage was promised,  Kamu was taken by Jayram to Ludhiana, India, where he worked and they lived together for a year without any legal ties. Jayram started abusing her so she went to a group of Nepali women who lived in the neighborhood for help. On the other hand, Kamu now plans to go to work as a migrant worker in an gulf country. This puts her in further risk of being trafficked or abused.  If she indeed leaves, her two daughters who now go to a school in Madi will be at risk of child marriage or of living conditions without any basic rights that a child deserves. Out of the five siblings of Kamu, four, including three sisters and her brother are grade four and five dropouts whereas the youngest sister Parbati is now in grade nine as she has been receiving scholarships given by Rural Health Education Service Trust (RHEST), an NGO which has been putting girls in school to stop them from being trafficked, since grade three after learning that all elder siblings of Parbati had to drop out of school!
Due to the social, cultural, religious, traditional and economic conditions and now modern technology, child marriage is still persists here. On one hand, minor girls are still being enticed into better life by adults and are lured into relationships which are different forms of sexual abuse. On the other hand adolescent girls and boys marry each other “by choice” after being exposed to modern technology via the television, movies and internet. Marriage and sexual behavior of the youth of Nepal is also changing over the years and “living together” has become a trend and fashion both in the rural and urban areas.
Nepal has made progressive movements regarding girls and women’s rights. This includes  formulating and amending laws and acts which are proactive to women. However, implementation of these laws and acts are far from reality. A lot needs to be done to actually reach the goals. There have been movements against child marriage with government commitments to eradicate this. Although there is a decrease in the trend,  41% of women still get married before they turn 18, according to a report by PLAN ASIA. There has been an awareness that girls should be put to school, but adolescent activities are such that more than the “mundane studies” children, both boys and girls, seem to be more attracted towards each other and a “romantic” life which seems to beacon them without full understanding of what they are getting into. Although poverty is still a reality of Nepal both in rural and urban area, modern technology has reached all. Television, internet and mobile phones are now part of the lifestyle of most people. Adolescents now seem to taken by Bollywood movies and text each other to create a fancy world. Similarly a girl in Dhangadi recently eloped with a 16 year old boy when she was in grade 9 thinking they would have a better life together. After RHEST learnt about this together with the government school there, they hunted the girl and boy and brought the police telling them it was illegal. After seeing the police the boy disappeared, and the girl told all present there that her heart had been broken as “I had never thought the boy would betray me like this and desert me.” Now she has passed SLC last year and is in grade 11 and a change agent in her locality trying to alert girls against child marriage.
The general complaints, of both the teachers and parents, are that access to mobile phones has facilitated access to teenage romance and flight from the dire living conditions that adolescents are in. A lot of awareness on the need of putting children in school and eradicating child marriage has been done jointly by the government and NGOs. However, enough has not been done to ensure the end of child marriage. Although marriage below the age of 18 for girls and 20 for boys is termed illegal. The sexual behavior of living together and untold “marriage” below that age is still happening all over the country. There are still many girls like Kamu who are lured into a fictitious “green pasture” and unknowingly trafficked. There are also many children born to such victims who are further pushed into darkness and a future even worse.
A combined effort between the government, schools, parents, youth and NGOS is required now to make adolescents aware of the adverse conditions of early marriage be it by will or by force.  A revision of the school curriculum is required to make both girls and boys understand this. As soon as a child marriage by eloping is identified in communities, schools and police should jointly nullify such “marriages” in order to stop the parents and societies from accepting it.
While in general parents are now opting out of arranged child marriage, sexual behavior and influence of modern technology seems to have impacted the adolescents in such a way that they themselves are “opting” for marriage without realizing the consequences. A nationwide campaign using modern technology and school education is required to end this phenomenon.
Sharma is president of Center for Investigative Journalism (CIJ) Nepal
The post Child marriage: Much to do appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Along with traditional Hindu rites and rituals, the holiday is marked by raucous, revelry and mass gatherings where revelers douse each other with colored powder and water. Every street, city and corner of Nepal goes colourful. Social media like Facebook go colorful replete with photos of joyous celebrations of the Holi festival.
Holi has a rich legendary significance. The word “Holi” originates from “Holika”, the evil sister of demon king Hiranyakashipu. King Hiranyakashipu had earned a boon that made him virtually indestructible. The “special powers” blinded him, he grew arrogant, boastfully thought he was God, and demanded that everyone worship only him.
Hiranyakashipu’s own son, Prahlada, however, disagreed. He was and remained devoted to Lord Vishnu. This infuriated Hiranyakashipu. He subjected Prahlada to cruel punishments, none of which affected the boy or his resolve to do what he thought was right. Finally, Holika – Prahlada’s evil aunt – tricked him into sitting on a pyre with her.  Holika was wearing a cloak that made her immune to injury from fire, while Prahlada was not. As the fire roared, the cloak flew from Holika and encased Prahlada.  Holika was burnt to ashes and Prahlada survived. Lord Vishnu appeared and killed Hiranyakashipu.
Nevertheless, Holi is becoming unholy as a result of some hooligans’ rowdy activities like excessive revelry, drinks and sexual harassment of girls. Security is tightened on this day and appeals made to the public to celebrate it in a civilized manner. Play safe, play colorful. Happy Holi!
The post Festival of colours appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
This interpreted by the Philippines as a chance to be more efficient, enhance resilience, build adaptive capacity, and transition to sustainable and clean energy solutions. The emphasis on human rights, the rights of indigenous people and local communities, gender equality… —blogs.adb.org/blog
The post Climate reality appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Every political leaders show great concerns for the development of the nation in their interviews and in other public gatherings. But their words are hardly translated into actions. Apropos of the news story “Deuba dares government to crack down on black-marketeers” (THT, March 20, Page 1), we listen to their speeches promising to make a prosperous nation. But nothing has happened so far, and the government has not been able to provide shelters to the earthquake victims though it has been one year since it devastated the country. In the interview Deuba has said he is well aware of the present state of affairs, particularly the victims of the earthquake and rampant black marketing flourishing after the blockade. Sad to say he has not outlined how he will be able to resolve these pressing problems facing the country. Nor has he given any convincing solution to the government as how things need to be done. Immediately after getting elected  PM KP Oli had also promised to address the fuel crisis and resettle the quake victims. He has also failed in his mission. The National Reconstruction Authority formed to reconstruct and resettle the quake victims has been on a snail’s pace as the employees hired for the reconstruction works have sought transfer from NRA. How can it start the reconstruction and rehabilitation works when it cannot set up its own institution through which all reconstruction and rehabilitation works are supposed to go ahead?
Apropos to the news story “Suu Kyi’s lieutenant presidential proxy” (THT, March 11), it is important to mention that Myanmar made a major mistake in spite of doing a great job towards establishing democracy. The military junta rulers being afraid of the rising popularity of the leader like Suu Kyi undemocratically prevented her from taking the position as head of state which she deserves. Proxy setting is a political game that is going to harm Myanmar’s long term interests as Suu Kyi will continue to serve the nation from behind the scene and her proxy will only carry out her directives. A similar situation arose when Sonia Gandhi of the Indian National Congress placed Dr. Manmohan Singh as proxy Prime Minister ten years ago. Her occupying the seat as head of the Indian government in spite of sweeping election victories were criticized by an opposition and a section of Indian voters contesting her naturalized citizen status, as she was originally an Italian citizen married to Rajiv Gandhi who was heir to the Nehru dynasty. The approach only weakened the Indian PMO considerably as most decisions were taken by her, weakening the pillar of democracy and finally weakened the party leading to a severe election debacles post-independence. Myanmar did not learn from this lesson from its neighbor and has made the same mistake. We need to remember that history never forgives major political mistakes.
The post LETTERS: Only words, no action appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
He had determined to free himself from the clutches of illiteracy but little could he know that poverty would force him quit school one year after joining the first grade at the age of 59. Kailu Sada of Pansera VDC-5 had enroled in the first grade of the Janata Lower Secondary School at Khurhuriya last year but now he is thinking of returning to full time work due to lack of money. Sada, father of three sons and grandfather of thirteen grandchildren, is currently preparing for final examination of the first grade. He worked in the mornings and evenings to earn money while he regularly attended the school in the day time. “I wanted to study more but I can’t and I will give all my books to my grandchildren,” he said. He didn’t have to pay money in the school but he said he would have to work to make ends meet. His grandson, Bacha Lal studying in the fifth grade helps Kailu in his studies. He said, “Learning was easy and fun, my grandchildren also taught me well but I will have to leave studies to work.” His teacher Jagannath Chaudhari also said Sada was one of the brightest students in class despite his age. His neighbours said Kailu’s wife is already dead and his daughters-in-law don’t give him anything to eat unless he works and this is hindering his studies. Teachers of the school said his grandchildren also come to school regularly after Kailu joined the school.
C­arrier Access Code (CAC) facility, which has been implemented for the customers in Kathmandu valley since yesterday is expected to deal with the problem of ISD congestion and also enhance quality of service of the two telecom service providers of the country. For long both Nepal Telecom (NT) and United Telecom Ltd (UTL) were using their own gateways to transfer the ISD calls, however, with the introduction of CAC, customers irrespective of subscription, can now chose either NT’s gateway or UTL’s gateway, while making an international call. The CAC code for UTL is 1212 and for NT is 1444. If NT’s customer is willing to use the gateway facility of UTL, the customer has to dial 1212 in place of ‘00’ followed by the country code, area code and subscriber number and the call will pass through UTL’s gateway. Similarly UTL customer can use the NT’s gateway by dialing 1444 in place of ‘00’ and the call will pass through NT’s gateways. While using the gateways customers would need to pay the charges specified by the respective service provider. This is certainly a good news for the telephone users as with competition, quality and customer care will improve, congestion will be eliminated and tariffs are bound to fall further, states a press release issued here today by the UTL.
The post THT 10 YEARS AGO: Poverty forces grandpa to quit schooling appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Institutional School Teachers’ Union (ISTU) an umbrella organisation of teachers from institutional schools across the country is all set to conduct its fourth convention in Kathmandu on April 30 and May 1.
A press statement issued by ISTU in the capital today said as two umbrella organisations of ISTU namely Nepal-ISTU and ISTU-Nepal had merged into ISTU on March 19, the union had decided to conduct its convention as a celebration of unity.
According to the statement, ISTU was registered at Kathmandu District Administration Office on January 15, 2004, but it split into Nepal-ISTU and ISTU-Nepal a couple of years ago following conflict of interest between a few people in the organisation.
The two factions were merged on March 21 to jointly fight for their rights.
In the statement, ISTU has demanded that the government crap the provision of registering schools as per the Company Act and bring all educational institutions running foreign curriculum under government acts and regulations.
“We protest foreign intervention in the country through the medium of education,” it said, adding, “The government should bring all those academic institutions running foreign curriculum under its supervision and regulation.”
The union also demanded appointment letters, salary, leave, provident fund, social allowances and other facilities to teachers and employees from institutional schools at par with government school teachers and employees.
ISTU has asked institutional schools to appoint a teacher’s representative who is elected from the teachers’ assembly in the School Management Committees.
“We want the government to provide necessary training to teachers and employees from institutional schools for quality education,” read the statement.
The union’s demands also include formation of high-power monitoring committee in district as well as a central level and government recognition of ISTU by ensuring their representation in state-formed bodies.
ISTU has warned the government of protests from the beginning of the new academic session if their demands are not addressed.
The post Fourth school teacher’s union convention to kick off in April-end appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Japan International Cooperation Agency, Ministry of Industry and Department of Mines and Geology today signed technical cooperation project named ‘Integrated Research on Great Earthquakes and Disaster Mitigation in Nepal Himalaya.”
A press statement issued here today by JICA said that it has been supporting Nepal in understanding earthquake disaster risk and planning to reduce the risk continuously.
It said that in this course, the new research project in collaboration with the University of Tokyo under the Science and Technology Research Partnership for Sustainable Development (SATREPS) was selected through global competition last year, just before the April 25, 2015.
The statement said that minister for industry, Som Prasad Pandeya, MoI representative Yam Kumari Khatiwada, DMG representative Rajendra Prasad Khanal and Jun Sakuma on behalf of JICA Nepal were present during the signing ceremony.
According to the statement, the project aims to provide advanced research outputs on potential earthquakes in Nepal, its risks to Kathmandu Valley and strengthen research and training capacity of universities in Nepal.
The main collaborative partners for Nepal are DMG, Central Department of Physics and Geology of Tribhuvan University for research and education and Department of Urban Development and Building Construction, it said.
The post JICA signs project on earthquake research in Nepal appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Bidya Devi Bhandari inaugurates the 4th Woodcraft fete in Pragya Bhawan at Kamaladi, Kathmandu on Monday, March 21, 2016. Photo: RSS
The three-day pre-event workshop for the Nepal Girl Summit-2016 has kicked off in Budhanilkantha-based Park Village Resort from yesterday.
Nepal Girl Summit-2016 is going to be held on March 23 in Kathmandu.
The summit will focus on ways to mitigate child marriage in the country as 1.3 million adolescent girls (aged between 10 to 19) in Nepal are at risk of being married when they are children.
Approximately 60 adolescent boys and girls from 15 districts have been sharing their experiences and striking messages from district consultations and inter-generational dialogues organised in their respective districts in the past couple of months.
They also talked about action for change and roles that various people such as parents, teachers, religious leaders, political leaders, service providers and others can play to change the situation.
The 15-districts include Morang, Saptari, Udayapur, Makawanpur, Rautahat, Kapilvastu, Rupandehi, Nawalparasi, Kalikot, Banke, Dailekh, Surkhet, Bajhang, Baitadi and Doti.
These districts were selected by the Ministry of Women, Children and Social Welfare and UNICEF because there was high prevalence of child marriage there.
According to UNICEF, they will draw certain conclusions after consultations lasting for three days and put them forth in the main Summit regarding the challenges, learning and way forward for mitigating child marriage that is prevalent in the Nepali society.
British Royal Prince Harry, who is on a five-day visit to Nepal, will also address the Nepal Girl Summit 2016.
The summit is expected to grab the attention of national as well as international sectors.
President Bidhya Devi Bhandari is slated to inaugurate the Nepal Girl Summit- 2016.
The post Pre-event workshop for Nepal Girl Summit-2016 begins appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Minister for Defense Bhim Rawal congratulates and hands certificate to SSP Ramesh Kharel upon completion of the nine days High Level Security Training organised by Army command and Staff College in Shivapuri on Monday, March 21, 2016. Photo: RSS
The 10-day advanced training in national security ended here today with the conclusion that not only the military, but also every class and community in society was responsible as far as the national interests and security matters were concerned.
The training organised with a view to developing a common view on security affairs among security agencies and bodies concerned was held at the Shivapuri-based Army Command and Staff College.
Matters relating to the country’s geo-politics and foreign policy, national security, army-civilian relations, use of collective efforts for humanitarian assistance during the time of disaster were the major agendas discussed during the training.
Government joint-secretaries, NA Brigadier General, Deputy Inspector General of Nepal Police, Armed Police Force and National Investigation Department were involved in the training, which was expected to be helpful in understanding various challenges to national security and its present situation and determining the security strategy.
Addressing the closing ceremony, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Defence Bhim Rawal said support from every sector in society was necessary to implement the national security policy.
The post 10-day advanced national security training concludes appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
The export of handicraft has decreased due to the impact of the earthquake that hit the country on April 25, 2015 and the border blockade.
According to statistics provided by the Federation of Handicraft Association of Nepal, handicraft items worth Rs 5.035 billion were exported from the country in the Fiscal Year 2013/014 whereas the export of the same was Rs 4.78 billion in the Fiscal Year 2014/015.
Federation President Dharma Raj Shakya said handicraft trade was in the doldrums as works could not be carried out for many months following the devastating earthquake.
Similarly, the Federation stated that transaction worth Rs 1.62 billion was recorded in the first four months of the current fiscal.
Twenty-five types of handicraft goods including those made from fibre and others are exported.
The post Temblor shakes down handicraft export appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Women, Children and Social Welfare Chandra Prakash Mainali today said the government was committed to rehabilitation of differently-abled people by addressing all types of disabilities.
At a programme organised on the occasion of the 21st Down Syndrome Day organised here today by the Down Syndrome Association Nepal, DPM Mainali said the government has been involved in protection and rehabilitation of differently-abled people.
He said, “Most of the people are not aware about the Down Syndrome.
The government is always ready support the organisations working in this sector to inform the people and create public awareness about the disease.”
Association Chairperson Dr Lalita Joshi pointed out that the family, society and government should pay special attention to care and rehabilitation of such people as Down Syndrome is a type of intellectual disability.
Down syndrome is a chromosomal disorder caused by an error in cell division that results in an extra 21st chromosome. The condition leads to impairment in both cognitive ability and physical growth that range from mild to moderate developmental disabilities.
Prenatal testing could find out whether or not the foetus is suffering from the disease but such facility is not available in Nepal, it can be found out by sending the blood sample to India for tests.
Chairperson Joshi said that it was necessary that all expecting mothers should undergo prenatal testing. She said that there are 46 chromosomes in a normal person and 47 in a person with Down Syndrome.
The Down Syndrome Day is celebrated on March 21 every year.
The post ‘Government committed to focus on differently-abled’ appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Kiran had earlier established Janak Khadka Scholarship Fund in the memory of his son.
A total of Rs 131,100 cash and stationery items worth Rs 35,000 was provided to the students of Araniko Higher Secondary School.
The post 64 students receive scholarship appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
The Commission for the Investigation of Abuse of Authority is investigating the allegation of irregularities against Chief Executive Officer of National Reconstruction Authority Sushil Gyewali.
According to CIAA Spokesperson Krishna Hari Pushkar, complainants had lodged plaints against Gyewali alleging that he committed irregularities as CEO of Town Development Fund and National Reconstruction Authority and the anti-graft body had been looking into all those allegations.
Pushkar said the CIAA had been investigating for the last one year the complaints filed against Gyewali alleging that he committed financial, administrative and technical irregularities with the Town Development Fund.
The CIAA Spokesperson also said that the anti-graft body also received new complaints against Gyewali, which charged him of being involved with non-governmental organisations to procure goods for NRA without giving priority to the fast-track process for providing service to the targeted people. “These investigations are in the preliminary phase,” he added.
Gyewali is currently visiting China as a member of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s entourage. He had served as the CEO of Town Development Fund before joining the NRA.
The post CIAA probing allegation against NRA chief appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Bangladesh’s wicketkeeper Mushfiqur Rahim, left, watches Australia’s Usman Khawaja play a shot during their ICC World Twenty20 2016 cricket match in Bangalore, India, Monday, March 21, 2016. Photo: AP
BENGALURU: Australia survived another middle-order collapse to beat Bangladesh by three wickets in the World Twenty20 Super 10 on Monday to get their campaign up and running.
Both teams were looking to bounce back from losing their opening Group Two games, Australia skipper Steve Smith winning the toss and choosing to field.
Smith’s men picked up wickets at regular intervals to restrict Bangladesh to a modest 156 for five despite a late flurry by Mahmudullah who hit seven fours in an unbeaten 49.
Leg-spinner Adam Zampa (3-23) and all-rounder Shane Watson (2-31) were the pick of the bowlers.
Openers Usman Khawaja (58) and Watson (21) then got Australia off to a good start, sharing a stand of 62 in 44 deliveries before the latter was run out.
Khawaja was bowled by Al-Amin Hossain in the 14th over having struck seven fours and a six in a 45-ball knock that gave Australia a solid platform, although they had the same sort of middle-order slump they suffered in the first game against New Zealand.
Smith, out for six against the Kiwis, was bowled by Mustafizur Rahman for 14.
David Warner (17) was next to fall and was soon followed by Mitchell Marsh (six).
Glenn Maxwell then scored a brisk 26 before being stumped by Mushfiqur Rahim off left-arm spinner Shakib Al Hasan.
All-rounder John Hastings, brought in by Australia for left-arm spinner Ashton Agar, was dropped on nought by Hossain and finally went for three when he was caught at mid-wicket by Soumya Sarkar.
By then Australia needed five runs off the last two overs and James Faulkner and Peter Nevill saw them through to a far-from-convincing win that lifted them to third in the group behind New Zealand and Pakistan but ahead of India.
Bangladesh, who are bottom, have a mountain to climb to reach the semi-finals.
The post Khawaja guides Australia to three-wicket win appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Former Ukrainian army pilot Nadezhda Savchenko looks out from a glass-walled cage during a verdict hearing at a court in the southern border town of Donetsk in Rostov region, Russia, on Monday, March 21, 2016. Photo: Reuters
A Russian judge today said Ukrainian pilot Nadezhda Savchenko was complicit in the killing of two Russian journalists, an assertion certain to inflame already dire relations between Moscow and Kiev.
Savchenko, 34, was captured by pro-Moscow rebels in eastern Ukraine in June 2014 during the separatist conflict there and handed over to Russia where she was charged with directing mortar fire which killed two Russian journalists.
Regarded as a national hero by many in her homeland, Savchenko has been depicted by Russian state TV as a dangerous Ukrainian nationalist with the blood of civilians on her hands.
The United States and the European Union have called on Russia to free Savchenko, who has undertaken various hunger strikes to try to speed up her trial, on humanitarian grounds.
The judge, Leonid Stepanenko, told a courtroom in southern Russia that Savchenko had “deliberately inflicted death on two persons, acting according to a conspiracy and motivated by hatred and enmity.”
Savchenko is not being tried by jury and Russian news agencies said the judge’s words amounted to a formal guilty verdict.
Her lawyers, Mark Feygin and Nikolai Polezov, told Reuters this was only part of the summing up however and not yet a formal guilty verdict which they said they expected later by Tuesday.
They have long asserted that Savchenko is the victim of a politicised show trial and would be found guilty. Prosecutors have asked the court for a 23-year jail sentence.
Angry Ukrainians have pelted the Russian embassy in Kiev with eggs over Savchenko’s plight while Russians have picketed the Ukrainian embassy in Moscow demanding justice for the dead journalists.
US Secretary of State John Kerry is expected to raise the case with the Kremlin later this week during a visit to Moscow.
Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko’s wife Marina called on Michelle Obama to join the campaign to free Savchenko, according to a statement on her husband’s web site.
Savchenko hopes to be returned to Ukraine before too long as part of an exchange deal between Moscow and Kiev.
She is expected to launch a new hunger strike, that would also see her refuse to take liquids, once the verdict enters into force to put pressure on Russian authorities to send her back home.
The post Russian judge says Ukrainian pilot Savchenko killed reporters appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Authorities in western India have banned groups of people from gathering near water sources in a drought-ridden city following violent skirmishes between increasingly desperate residents, officials said today.
Dnyaneshwar Chavan, the police chief of Latur, in Maharashtra state, said no more than five people were allowed at wells and public storage tanks at any one time over growing fears of water riots.
Latur, about 400 kilometres east of Mumbai, lies deep in the heart of India’s arid central belt and its half-a-million residents are reeling from years of below-par monsoon rains.
Latur is part of Maharashtra’s drought-hit Marathwada region. Several media reports say thousands of people, mostly poor farmers, have left the area recently because of water scarcity.
Last year around 1,400 farmers committed suicide in the region over crop failure from a lack of water and an inability to meet loan payments.
And officials fear the worst this year as most of Marathwada’s lakes and reservoirs lie empty months before the annual monsoon is expected to arrive.
“The reservoir has completely dried up. We are trying to get water from other sources to cater to the demand,” local official Pandurang Pole told AFP.
He said water was only being supplied to households through main’s taps once a month, and that some of the 200 water tankers sent to make up the shortfall had been looted.
There have been daily altercations at water-filling points, leading local officials to issue a ban on gatherings for two months, he added.
The post Indian city bans gatherings over water riot fears appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
The Saudi Press Agency says the delegation was led by ranking Senate Foreign Relations Committee member Ben Cardin, D-MD, and included Democratic Senator Ed Markey of Maryland, Republican Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado and Republican Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon.
SPA says Saudi Crown Prince and Interior Minister Mohammed bin Nayef and Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir also attended Monday’s meeting.
On Sunday, the senators met in Doha with Qatar’s ruler, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani.
Obama is due to visit Saudi Arabia on April 21 and attend a Gulf Cooperation Council summit. The GCC includes Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Oman.
The post 4 US Senators meet Saudi King Salman ahead of Obama visit appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Serena Williams, left, jokes behind Victoria Azarenka, of Belarus, after Azarenka defeated her in a final at the BNP Paribas Open tennis tournament, Sunday, March 20, 2016, in Indian Wells, Calif. Azarenka won 6-4, 6-4. Photo: AP
CALIFORNIA: Former world number one Victoria Azarenka took advantage of an error-prone display by Serena Williams to win her second BNP Paribas Open title with a 6-4 6-4 victory in Sunday’s final at Indian Wells in California.
The 26-year-old Belarusian broke the top-seeded American once in the opening set and twice in the second before wrapping up the win in just under 90 minutes in front of a stunned crowd at the sun-baked Indian Wells Tennis Garden.
World number one Williams, seeking a third title at Indian Wells after winning her second a distant 15 years ago, was badly let down by her forehand, though she did mount a late fightback and broke Azarenka in the eighth game of the second set for 3-5.
The American came close to levelling with Azarenka, serving for the match, wobbling at 15-40 but the Belarusian fired an ace, got to deuce when Williams hit a backhand long and clinched victory when her opponent hit a forehand service return long.
A visibly emotional Azarenka, the 13th seed who claimed her first Indian Wells crown in 2012, was able to celebrate her fourth victory over Williams in a WTA final, and a 19th career title.
“I had no doubt in my mind that I will give everything I can,” Azarenka told ESPN in a courtside interview about the see-sawing final game of the match.
“I couldn’t control how she was going to play and she was throwing some bombs there.
“But I stayed tough because it’s the only way to win, to stay strong, to keep doing what’s been working. I just wanted to work hard, give it my all, and it worked.”
Williams was also emotional, having won at Indian Wells in 1999 and 2001 before taking a self-imposed 14-year exile from the event amidst allegations of racial abuse from fans after her sister Venus withdrew minutes before their semi-final showdown.
“It was really hard, the last moment I had here wasn’t the greatest moment, so thank you so much,” the 34-year-old told the crowd. “Thank you so much for the cheers, I can’t tell you how much it means to me.”
Williams, a 21-time grand slam singles champion, made a poor start, trailing 0-40 on her usually powerful serve in the first game of the match before double faulting to be broken.
Azarenka clinched the opening set in 41 minutes and then continued her dominance, breaking Williams twice to take control of the second set.
The post Azarenka stuns erratic Williams in Indian Wells final appeared first on The Himalayan Times.