2014-01~03
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/10661998/China-silences-last-voice-of-dissent-on-Xinjiang.html

China silences last voice of dissent on Xinjiang - Telegraph
The only public figure inside China who dared to question Beijing's policy in the vast, oil-rich and troubled region of Xinjiang is now facing life imprisonment.
Ilham Tohti, a 44-year-old economics professor at China's Ethnic Minorities university in Beijing, has been charged with "separatism" along with seven of his students, according to his lawyer.
"They were all arrested in Beijing. Tohti faces ten years to life in prison for being the ringleader. His students face three to 10 years," said Li Fangping.
"He is being detained in Xinjiang and currently the authorities will not allow any lawyers to represent him or see him. I am trying to be involved. His family in Beijing are not formally under house arrest, but they cannot leave their house freely or meet anyone."
Mr Tohti has suffered constant harassment from the authorities since founding a website, Uighurbiz, in 2005 that became the main forum for debate over China's often repressive policies in Xinjiang.

China terror attack leaves dozens killed after bombs thrown into busy market


Chinese police kill 13 ‘terrorists’ after ‘bomb attack’ on police station


Hong Kong news editor stabbed with cleaver over press freedom protests

"Certainly he was the only public figure to directly criticise government policies in Xinjiang," said Nicholas Bequelin, a researcher at Human Rights Watch and a specialist on the region.
"I think in the eyes of the authorities his biggest 'crime' was the creation of Uighurbiz," he added.
Violence has gripped the far-western region over the last year and hundreds have died in battles between the ethnic Muslim Uighur population and Chinese security forces.
In an interview with Voice of America, Mr Tohti said many of the conflicts had been sparked by a new "visit and interview" policy that sent Chinese officers into the homes of local Uighurs.
"People who do the visit and interview at your house sometimes intervene in your personal life, asking you to remove your beard, turban, religious books or symbols, the carpet Uighurs use for prayer. This kind of 'visit and interview' has become the trigger to many conflicts, some even involving Uighur women," he said.
"The people who do these visits are government officials, or people hired by the government, random thugs, people who receive benefits from the government, or police. If someone forces his way into my house, it is unacceptable to me."
He added that since the new party secretary of Xinjiang, Zhang Chunxian, arrived in 2010, each Uighur household had been watched over by its own policeman. He added that Beijing had failed to create any ethnically Uighur interest groups to manage their peers.
Last year, Mr Tohti felt the walls close in on him further after plain-clothed police officers brazenly rammed his car while he was driving with his wife and children, aged 7 and 3.
When Mr Tohti challenged the police, gesturing at his crying children, the agent shrugged then swore at him. "We don't care," he quoted the agent as saying. "We want to kill your whole family."
In January, he was seized by 40 police officers from his home near the university campus in Beijing, punched and dragged away.
He was held without notice for over a month and was finally charged just one hour before the statutory 37-day time limit on detention without arrest expired.
Before his detention, Mr Tohti left a statement with a journalist from Radio Free Asia, in which he predicted his fate.
"Many of my friends have been arrested lately. The number of police officers around me has been gradually increased. They have been watching me even on school campus. I have never been surrounded by this many police officers," he said.
"I am almost certain that their intentions are corrupt this time, but I would like to say that mine are not. I have always led by example through advocating for diplomatic and peaceful ways to request justice and equality.
"I have never spoken like this before, but I am almost confident that the Chinese government is trying to get rid of me this time," he said, adding that his criticism of Zhang Chunxian was likely to be the spur for his arrest.
"I have recently received 'communications' and I must say that I don't feel very safe at the moment. Please save this conversation from today and be sure to keep it until you need to release it, when it is necessary," he said.
Britain, the European Union and the United States have all voiced their concern over Mr Tohti's detention.

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
