2014-01~03
http://www.saharasamay.com/world-news/676548855/china-blames-uighur-separatists-for-knife-attack-at-train-statio.html

China blames Uighur separatists for knife attack at train station
Serbia's Novak Djokovic decisively beat Canada's Milos Raonic 6-2, 6-0 in just an hour and
China blamed Uighur separatists from the volatile north-western Xinjiang region for an attack by knife-wielding "terrorists" at a railway station in Kunming city that left at least 33 people dead and 130 injured.
The Kunming city government later said that evidence from the scene pointed to separatists from Xinjiang as the attack  was an orchestrated, premeditated violent terrorist attack.It gave no details and the claim could not be verified.
Xinjiang's minority Uighur Muslims want autonomy from Chinese rule and an end to state suppression of their religion.
TV footage showed police recovering swords carried by some of the members of the group. This is first time militants allegedly belonging to the banned East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), which is fighting for the independence of Muslim Uygur majority Xinjiang province, has carried out such a major attack outsides their province.
 Xinjiang, which borders Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (POK) and Afghanistan, witnessed several violent attacks by the militants stated to be from ETIM, an al-Qaeda linked group fighting for independent Xinjiang.
The incident occurred when a group of militants armed with knives and swords attacked people randomly at the crowded  Kunming railway station in the capital of southwest China's Yunnan Province last night causing panic all around.

 Police shot dead at least four attackers and are hunting for the rest, it said, adding that more than 10 "terrorist
suspects" were involved in the attack.
 
Last year three members of a family including two men tried to carry out an attack at the Forbidden city near the
Tiananmen square here. Four people were killed in that attack.
 For several years the province experienced ethnic unrest between native Muslim Uygurs and the Han national from the
Chinese mainland for the past few years over the increasing settlements of Hans in the region.
Currently the investigation to the case is underway. Injured people have been rushed to hospital for emergency treatment. According to Kunming railway bureau, train departures have not been affected.
   
The authorities vowed to crack down on violent terrorist activities in all forms and guarantee the safety of people's lives and property, Xinhua said.Pictures on Sina Weibo, the Chinese equivalent of Twitter, show local police patrolling the station. Bodies in blood can be spotted on the ground in the pictures. Doctors were seen transporting injured to a local hospital.
Chinese President Xi Jinping has asked the law enforcement to investigate the case with all-out efforts and punish the terrorists in accordance with the law.
Xi stressed the careful rescue and treatment of the injured civilians and proper handling of the dead, which include 29 people and four terrorists.
 He called for full awareness of the grave and complicated situation of anti-terrorism and effective measures to crack down violent terrorist activities in all forms.
 Xi has assigned senior officials, including Meng Jianzhu,head of the Commission for Political and Legal Affairs of the  Communist Party of China Central Committee, and Guo Shengkun,Chinese state councilor and minister of public security, to
rush to Yunnan to guide work and assist investigations.
Premier Li Keqiang asked relevant departments to catch and punish the terrorists and instructed public security departments at all levels to strengthen prevention and control measures to guarantee the safety of public places.
super luxury car maker Rolls-Royce is gearing up to tap the country's Billionaires with ne
Coming-of-age drama 'Boyhood' won three of the biggest awards at the BAFTA 2015 but it was
Sunny Leone is seen scorching the screen in the first look of Leela with her bold acts.
Samsung unveiled the Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, S
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian reportedly wants Beyonce to buy a house in her gated commun
Automaker Renault India today said it will roll-out a multi-purpose vehicle 'Lodgy' and a
Pharma tycoon Dilip Shanghvi surpassed Mukesh Ambani as the world's richest Indian with a
When Holi is round the corner, can anyone forget all-time hit Bollywood songs?
In an interim order, the Bombay High Court has restrained the city police from arresting o
Good news for the fans’ of Salman Khan and Deepika Padukone.
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian has posed nude for the upcoming 10th season of 'Keeping Up
Bollywood superstar Akshay Kumar and Actress cum Entrepreneur Shilpa Shetty Kundra have pa
Kashmir witnessed season's heaviest snowfall as the arterial Jammu-Srinagar National Highw
Mexican actress Stephanie Sigman has joined Monica Bellucci and Lea Seydoux as the new bon
Luxury carmaker Mercedes-Benz launched the all-new compact B-Class in both petrol and dies
Bollywood actor Poonam Pandey, gets relief as a local court in Bengaluru quashed a case pe
Automaker Renault India launched the new generation Duster priced at Rs 8.30 lakh (Delhi e
Now Bollywood A-list actors are competing to get nude on-screen.
The 2015 edition of the International Indian Film Academy Awards is set to enthrall Bollyw


India defeated Zimbabwe by six wickets chasing 288 runs target in World Cup Match.
Short filmmaker Ullhas PR on Monday filed a police complaint against Bollywood superstar A
A rare three-feet-long flying snake was spotted in Coimbatore district’s Kalampalayam v
ASUS has created an online game for its ZenFone Zoom smartphone which allows participants