2014-01~03
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/10673092/Chinese-police-solve-Kunming-massacre.html

Chinese police 'solve' Kunming massacre - Telegraph
Two days after attackers dressed in black slashed 29 people to death at Kunming's railway station, Chinese police said they had caught the surviving suspects and solved the case.
Xinhua, the state news agency, reported that a terrorist gang of six men and two women from the Uighur ethnic minority had been responsible for the atrocity.
As the news broke, fresh details emerged of how those caught up in the attack desperately tried to defend themselves with rods, fire extinguishers and metal parasols.
At least 29 civilians died and more than 140 were injured on Saturday night when a group of at least 10 extremists stormed the bustling station in southwest China and set upon men, women and children with knives.
"Two men were killed right in front of me, one had his throat cut, the other [was stabbed] in the chest. There was blood everywhere," recalled shop-keeper Liu Guilin, 28, who said he had armed himself and six or seven other men with metal parasols in a desperate and successful attempt to deter the attackers.

Survivors recount scenes of terror dubbed 'China's 9/11' by state media

Liu Guilin with the metal parasol he used to defend himself (Tom Phillips)
The Spring City Evening News, a local tabloid, said another man, Mr Li, had used a steel rod to challenge the knife-wielding assailants. The 6ft2 man, whose nickname is Big Buffalo, then helped police corner four gang members who were shot at and fell to the ground. Finally, he struggled with an attacker before chasing him away.
Two witnesses told The Telegraph they had seen female attackers wearing face veils and Mr Liu, the shop owner, said he was "quite positive" that the attacker he had seen belonged to Xinjiang's largely Muslim Uighur ethnic group.
"He didn't wear a mask. He appeared to be quite calm," he said. "He just placed his machete against people's throats and slit them, effortlessly."
Three separate witnesses claimed attackers had spared the life of Han Guojun, a local restauranteur, because he was wearing a white cap which identified him as a member of China's Muslim Hui people.
Reached by telephone an audibly uncomfortable Mr Han rejected that version of events and said he had "already told police everything." He declined to elaborate.
Beijing has vowed to respond to "China's 9/11" with "iron fists" and those promises have found widespread support among Chinese who are appalled at the perpetrators' viciousness.
"In my view, we should kill them all. They are not human," said Mr Liu, the shop keeper,as he returned to work on Monday and brandished the 4ft metal pole he had used to defend his stall.
But the apparent link to Xinjiang has also fanned fears of a backlash against China's Uighur population, which activists say is already treated with great suspicion, discrimination and at times hostility.
Those concerns appeared to be validated after a police notice was posted on Chinese social media, urging residents in one provincial capital to "immediately" inform security authorities "if anyone discovers people from Xinjiang living, doing business or travelling here."
Witnesses to the Saturday's killing spree also spoke in unflattering terms about Uighurs, suggesting the attack will further strain pre-existing tensions.
"I was always a bit scared of Xinjiang people," said Li Dongmei, 46, who arrived at the station minutes after the attack to find corpses scattered outside her supermarket. "They look quite ferocious. I've never really talked to them much."
"I didn't trust Xinjiang people in the past," said Wang Hongying, 39, another witness. "Now, it is even worse."
The Chinese government had been "too nice" to the Uighurs, "giving them better policies and treatment [than Han Chinese]," complained Mr Liu.
On Monday, heavily armed police units, including SWAT teams, occupied the entrances to Dashuying, a rundown, low-income neighbourhood that is home to Kunming's small and, locals say, transient Uighur community.
At one entrance The Telegraph counted twenty marked police vehicles, including buses filled with riot gear and SUVs and saloon cars with bullet-proof vests splayed out on the dashboards.
"This has never happened before," said a local man who asked to be named only as Mr Ma. "Never in my whole life have I seen such a heavy show of police force in this area."
Mr Ma said rumours were circulating that police had taken large numbers of Uighurs into custody "for interrogation".
Ulaemen, a 22-year-old from Kashgar in Xinjiang's far west, said police had come to check the ID cards of Uighur residents on Sunday.
"I heard about the attack but I can't comment on it at the moment," said a 26-year-old Uighur who gave his name as Shukulati and, like many residents, is originally from the city of Yili.
Abuliz, the 62-year-old owner of Dashuzhong's Xinjiang Supermarket, rejected the idea that locals had been involved in the attack. "Nothing bad goes on around here," he said. "The police came but it doesn't worry us. Why should it?"
Amid rising tensions, Xu Xin, a legal scholar with more than 6 million followers on social media, called for calm. "Inciting ethnic hate is exactly what terrorists aim to do," he wrote, according to the South China Morning Post. "Instead of igniting more hatred we ought to reflect on what generates terrorism in order to more effectively contain it."

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
