2014-01~03
http://freepressjournal.in/china-battles-terrorists-in-xinjiang-23-dead/

China battles terrorists in Xinjiang: 23 dead | Freepress Journal
Xinjiang, home to Uygur Muslims, shares borders with Kyrgyzstan, Afghanistan and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and has been hit by militant violence
Beijing : Twenty-three militants were killed during separate clashes with Chinese and Kyrgyz security forces as violence rocked China’s volatile Xinjiang province, bordering PoK, for the second day on Saturday.
Eleven militants, believed to be from northwestern Xinjiang, were killed by Kyrgyz troops near the border with China, state-run media reported.
In a separate incident, six militants were shot dead by police and six more died in explosions they set off themselves in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, authorities said.
Xinjiang, home to Uygur Muslims, shares borders with Kyrgyzstan, Afghanistan and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and has been hit by militant violence. The Kyrgyz border service chief said a group of militants, carrying hunting rifles and knives, was spotted in Pikertyk, 40 km from the border, by a park ranger who was killed in the violence, China’s state-run CCTV reported.
Kyrgyz border guards located and surrounded the militants, and a gunfight erupted when they refused to surrender. Eleven militants were killed.
After the incident, the Kyrgyz Foreign Ministry said Kyrgyzstan and China are working closely in the fight against the “evil forces” of separatism, extremism and terrorism.
In the other incident in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, police opened fire to fight back attacks by militants while they were making arrests following two blasts in Xinhe area, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.
Six suspects were gunned down and six others died in explosions set off by themselves, the local publicity department said. Five persons were arrested and a policeman suffered minor injuries. Police seized explosives and other devices used to commit criminal acts, the report said.
Two people were killed in bomb attacks in the same region yesterday. In November last year, nine civilians and two policemen were killed in an attack on a police station near Kashgar. In late October, five persons died when a car ploughed into a crowd and burst into flames in Beijing’s iconic Tiananmen Square. Beijing called the incident a terrorist attack inspired by Xinjiang-linked extremists.
The Uygur population of Xinjiang was restive during the past few years over growing settlements of Han Chinese in the sprawling province.
China blames the separatist East Turkistan Islamic Movement for attacks, while Uighur activists point to ethnic tensions and tight Chinese control as triggers for violence.

« Previous Article
It’s our dream to make Delhi corruption- free, says Arvind



 
 
 
 Dr. Sanjay Deshmukh, vice chancellor of Mumbai University, speaks of the many paradigm shifts that are now needed. Shraddha Kamdar… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 A couple of years ago, we had published an article that essentially reproducted an email sent to us by valued… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 The latest political crisis in Uttarakhand underlines the loosening grip of the Congress leadership on the party. Since power is… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 We all know the difficulties that surround any effort to improve relations between India and Pakistan. The problems are embedded… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 The PPF rate cut will cause less dismay if inflation is also kept low and stable. Ever since the financial… 

 Read more…  


Copyright © 2016 . All Rights Reserved. Maintained by Designwell Infotech