2014-01~03
http://www.saharasamay.com/world-news/676551505/chinese-police-seize-record-number-of-weapons.html

Chinese police seize record number of weapons
Serbia's Novak Djokovic decisively beat Canada's Milos Raonic 6-2, 6-0 in just an hour and
Police in China's southwestern Guizhou Province have seized a record number of illegal guns
and knives.
The weapons were seized in a cross-province raid that also captured 15 suspects in a bid to control increasing violent attacks, a report from Beijing said.

The police busted a gang involved in manufacturing and selling weapons and confiscated about 15,000 guns and 120,000 controlled knives, state-run Xinhua news agency said.

It was the largest such seizure ever in China, it said.

The police found out after a four-month investigation that the gang's business covered 27 provinces and municipalities, including Guangdong, Guizhou, Hunan and Sichuan.

China in recent months witnessed numerous knife attacks by disgruntled individuals targeting civilians including the school children.

In a major attack, militants from Xinjiang region carried knife attacks in a railway station at Kunming last month in which 33 people were killed over 140 others injured.

The gang, based in Shaodong, neighboring Hunan Province, owned several warehouses where many guns and controlled knives were stored.

Du Chuang, a police officer with the Guiyang Public Security Bureau, said the gang was running a family business in the name of a cutter factory.

China bans the manufacturing and selling of guns as part of its efforts to crack down on violent crimes.

Private citizens are not allowed to own guns.

In 2008, the Ministry of Public Security issued a notice requiring sellers to record the identities of people who purchase controlled knives.
super luxury car maker Rolls-Royce is gearing up to tap the country's Billionaires with ne
Coming-of-age drama 'Boyhood' won three of the biggest awards at the BAFTA 2015 but it was
Sunny Leone is seen scorching the screen in the first look of Leela with her bold acts.
Samsung unveiled the Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, S
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian reportedly wants Beyonce to buy a house in her gated commun
Automaker Renault India today said it will roll-out a multi-purpose vehicle 'Lodgy' and a
Pharma tycoon Dilip Shanghvi surpassed Mukesh Ambani as the world's richest Indian with a
When Holi is round the corner, can anyone forget all-time hit Bollywood songs?
In an interim order, the Bombay High Court has restrained the city police from arresting o
Good news for the fans’ of Salman Khan and Deepika Padukone.
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian has posed nude for the upcoming 10th season of 'Keeping Up
Bollywood superstar Akshay Kumar and Actress cum Entrepreneur Shilpa Shetty Kundra have pa
Kashmir witnessed season's heaviest snowfall as the arterial Jammu-Srinagar National Highw
Mexican actress Stephanie Sigman has joined Monica Bellucci and Lea Seydoux as the new bon
Luxury carmaker Mercedes-Benz launched the all-new compact B-Class in both petrol and dies
Bollywood actor Poonam Pandey, gets relief as a local court in Bengaluru quashed a case pe
Automaker Renault India launched the new generation Duster priced at Rs 8.30 lakh (Delhi e
Now Bollywood A-list actors are competing to get nude on-screen.
The 2015 edition of the International Indian Film Academy Awards is set to enthrall Bollyw


India defeated Zimbabwe by six wickets chasing 288 runs target in World Cup Match.
Short filmmaker Ullhas PR on Monday filed a police complaint against Bollywood superstar A
A rare three-feet-long flying snake was spotted in Coimbatore district’s Kalampalayam v
ASUS has created an online game for its ZenFone Zoom smartphone which allows participants