2014-01~03
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2014-02-13/magnitude-68-earthquake-strikes-western-china/1263958

Magnitude 6.8 earthquake strikes western China | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
A magnitude 6.8 earthquake has struck China's far western region of Xinjiang, the US Geological Survey says.
A magnitude 6.8 earthquake has struck China's far western region of Xinjiang, the US Geological Survey said.
The tremor was only 12.5 kilometres deep but hit about 270 kilometres east-southeast of Hotan, an extremely remote and sparsely populated area.
The USGS had previously put the magnitude at 6.9, but later downgraded it.
Another tremor of magnitude 5.7 hit the same area five minutes later, five kilometres deep, followed by a series of aftershocks of up to 4.2 magnitude, China's Earthquake Networks Centre said.
China's government put the epicentre in Yutian county in the far south of Xinjiang, which is mostly desert and mountain but also has a small farming belt.
"We were at the office at the time and felt strong shaking, the windows were rattling," a reporter in Keriya county near the epicentre told state broadcaster CCTV.
The Xinjiang earthquake administration said on its official microblog that the nearest settlement to the epicentre was 50 kilometres away, and that the Yutian government had yet to receive any reports of damage.
The Xinjiang government says it plans to send a 20-person rescue team to the area.
China is regularly hit by earthquakes, especially its mountainous western and south western regions.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.