2014-01~03
http://tribune.com.pk/story/656095/maybe-its-time-we-change-our-ways/

Maybe it’s time we change our ways - The Express Tribune

The writer is the Executive Director of the Independent Centre for Research and Security Studies, and the author of Pakistan : Before and After Osama
A number of Pakistanis took offence to the 2013 global survey conducted by the Worldwide Independent Network/Gallup released recently. The poll placed Pakistan second behind the United States in terms of the threat it poses to world peace. Some 24 per cent of the world believes America represents the biggest threat to peace. In comparison, only eight per cent believe it is Pakistan, which is closely followed by neighbours China (six per cent), Afghanistan (five per cent) and Iran (five per cent).
Why should Pakistanis fume over these revelations? After all, Pakistan continues to ‘host’ a number people from different national and ethnic origins. Osama bin Laden was discovered and killed in Abbottabad. His successor, Dr Zawahiri, and several of his cohorts are believed to be stalking the mountains between Bajaur and Waziristan — all wanted by the United States.
Militants of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and Chechens are reportedly nestled somewhere in Fata’s foothills — wanted by Uzbekistan and possibly Russia. So are the Uighur Muslims of the Eastern Turkestan Islamic Movement — accused of stoking unrest in Xinjiang and wanted by China.
Members and leaders of different militant organisations are all reportedly sheltering in Pakistani border regions — militants that Kabul considers detrimental to peace and reconciliation. And last but not least — zealots roam all over Pakistan — wanted by India on several counts for their alleged possible role in acts of terrorism in Indian-held Kashmir, as well as the Mumbai attacks of November 2008.
Observers suggested that citizens from arch-rival India, which is ranked at eight, may have had a large role in Pakistan’s dismal ranking. But this factor hardly denies the ground realities mentioned above.
True, Pakistan continues to pay dearly for its involvement in the war on terror that began on October 7, 2001 under then US president George W Bush. Human and material losses far outweigh the aid that Pakistan has received from external sources. The perception of being a dangerous country where death and crime stalk the streets (Karachi, Quetta, Fata and Peshawar are the usual datelines for all the bad news coming from Pakistan) has clearly relegated the image of the country to the status of Afghanistan and Somalia, particularly in the eyes of common US and European infotainment citizens who follow news only out of a peripheral interest.
Most Pakistanis tend to overlook a very basic fact, i.e., all these proponents of global jihadism to a great degree define Pakistan’s image abroad. They constitute the core of the Indian, Afghan and American narrative on Pakistan. These narratives get multiplied globally through the huge US information machinery, which serves as the primary prism on a country that continues to bleed because of the policies it has pursued for decades, a country that most American legislators describe as a ‘double-dealer, peace-spoiler’. These policies grew out of a misplaced sense of insecurity vis-a-vis a bigger neighbour, and in the meanwhile also dovetailed with the Cold War era American policies on the Soviet Union.
The Pakistani establishment simply lapped up the anti-Soviet bogey that Washington had raised, premised on the jihadist mantra, and focused on the geopolitical-commercial interests of the United States. This tactical partnership helped the Pakistani establishment conceive ways and means to realise the old dream of wresting Kashmir from India.
It is unfortunate that even today, the hardcore elements within the establishment rarely recognise that these policies, in fact, became instruments of prolonged instability and isolation, instead of securing the country in real terms. Something considered as a protective wall has hardly served the purpose. On the contrary, the wall is holed, crumbling and burying the country’s interests under its fragments. The gauntlet thrown at India for national security is unravelling that skewed notion of security.
Like Opinion & Editorial on Facebook, follow @ETOpEd on Twitter to receive all updates on all our daily pieces.
In order to save Pakistan from imminent chaos, we need to develop an equally forceful counter-narrative.
The governor said after Bangladesh received the GSP Plus status, its exports increased from $5 billion to $25 billion.
Almost 60 young photographers from different universities of the twin cities attended the walk.
People can have three thousand theoretical perspectives on religious radicalism. The fact remains that an average Pakistani always associates her/himself with the broader Islamic Millat than with the soil that give her/him birth and feeds her/him. This has been our tragedy from the very beginning. Add free hand that our clergy had in the formative phase of Pakistan and we find the answer. Third, enormous population growth and growing income inequality. Economic deprivation leads the poor to ask the “higher authority” to solve their problems. Remember German invasion of Poland was because Germany was unable to feed its population and territories had to be extended. Fourth, we spend too much time for making our lives better for the next world and not caring what we are doing t to make them miserable in this world. Not many of us care that we all will be dead in the long run and once I die, it is over. There are no seventy-two waiting for me in the next world
I generally like columns written by Mr.Gul. This particular one is somewhat disappointing. Mr.Gul’s clumsy attempts to cast doubt and find scapegoats for all the ills of Pakistan is somewhat tiring (“alleged possible” role in terrorism in Kashmir and Mumbai; Really? you needed two adjectives to be sure you can weasel out of this one!). I would just like to point out couple of glaring ones.
Soviet occupation of Afghanistan has been used to explain away support of terrorism by Pakistan and its uncontrolled growth. Could you please list just one action Pakistan took to stop this menace in all the years since the Russians left?
2nd: “The Pakistani establishment simply lapped up the anti-Soviet bogey that Washington had raised, ” – I just finished reading Mr.Husain Haqquani’s ‘Magnificient Delusions”. According to him, Pakistan in all its existence has desperately tried to get US worried about spread of communism by raising “Soviet Bogey” just to get military equipment and hard cash – completely the opposite of what Mr.Gul claims here.
“True, Pakistan continues to pay dearly for its involvement in the war on terror that began on October 7, 2001 under then US president George W Bush.” Author is suffering from myopia and forgot that Taliban were in power in Afghanistan. Pakistan was one of the three countries who recognized them. Those Taliban were no angels. Pakistan is paying dearly for policy of supporting Taliban. Bush gave Pakistan a clear choice either join the team to get rid of Taliban or get bombed to stone age. Pakistan made a choice and now live with the decision.
I would prefer the title: “It’s high time we change our ways”
The facts you have stated are known to all except the radically brainwashed. However by giving refuge to the forces still trying to destabilize Afghanistan through violence the Establishment continue to play games that can bring nothing but more grief to the ordinary citizens of both countries. There is no sign that any lessons were learned and that the priorities should have been shifted to serve the welfare of people. It is not too late to change but the efforts needed may now be herculean. A change in mindset is essential and the narrative must change from being a victim to being a catalyst for growth and development. Sincerity will be rewarded if not immediately, slowly and steadily. Good Luck !
@a_writer: I have not read Husain Haqquani’s ‘Magnificient Delusions” and I don’t want to read anything from the worshipers of the daylight (Hussain Haqqani being one) but I am intrigued by his off the wall statement about U.S.-Pakistan relations. Please look at the cold war developments including scholarship that came out (WW Rostow, Stages of Development: A non Communist Manifesto). This is just one example. There is tons of literature and official documents (now declassified by the U.S. Govt.) Some have their way of twisting facts and Mr. Haqqani is known for that. He will do anything to make a buck. If you and other think that distorting facts is scholarship, I arrest my case. Recommend
And yet there are still millions in India who are ‘untouchable’. Not a single word in the Western or Indian media. The Indian trolls love coming to pakistani websites to make silly hateful one-liners. Maybe it’s HIGH TIME somebody does something for majority of India who suffer from discrimination by fellow hindus (who would rather use their privileges to make one-liners on the internet)
India is an utter shame!
@Lal din
Thanks for the interesting comment. You should write more about it if you could. For example how does the book feed into all this. Is it a worth read? Where do you think Pakistan is headed towards?Recommend
@interested: Thank you Madam/Sir. I am touched. Several years back a professional Journal sent me one of his book on military. It did not take me more than a couple hours to understand his nonsensical assertions. I returned the book to the Journal by politely saying “conflict of interest.” The fact was it was nothing but a collection of garbage. Absolutely no theoretical framework (Haqqani does not know what it is), no mode of analysis or very obscure. In brief, it had nothing that people in the profession look for. I never saw a review of that book in that journal. Perhaps others also did the same.
Thanks again for your very encouraging remarks.
@lal din
Thanks for getting back and yeah I needed some expert-minded person’s analysis of that book. Some people with a certain bent are touting it. Thanks once again

This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, redistributed or derived from.
Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2016 The Express Tribune.
Technical feedback? [email protected]
