2014-01~03
http://rt.com/op-edge/malaysia-plane-terror-attack-550/

Connecting the dots: Missing Malaysia Airlines plane a terror attack aimed at China? — RT Op-Edge

 CIA Director John Brennan made a significant remark on March 12
 that his agency has “not at all” ruled out terrorism as
 possibly having played a part in the disappearance of Malaysian
 Airlines Flight 370. He also said that there have not been any
 credible claims of responsibility from terrorist groups for the
 plane’s disappearance.


 Obviously Brennan couldn’t have been unaware of claim of
 responsibility for the plane’s disappearance by the Chinese
 Martyrs’ Brigade – unheard of before now. This outfit had
 released a statement through an impossible-to-trace encrypted
 Hushmail anonymous service on March 9 saying: "You kill one
 of our clan, we will kill 100 of you as payback." According
 to the statement it was a response to the Chinese government for
 its persecution of the Uyghur ethnic minority.


 This implies that the CIA chief attaches no importance to the
 claim, something which Malaysia's acting Transport Minister Datuk
 Seri Hishammuddin Hussein has debunked in an on-record statement.


 The needle of suspicion over the mysterious disappearance of MH
 370 would inevitably point to the Chinese Uighurs if
 investigators conclude that the Malaysian plane was indeed a
 victim of terrorism.


 The Muslim Uighur community is one of China’s 56 ethnic
 minorities which is in majority in the restive Xinjiang
 Autonomous Region. They have had a brief taste of independence as
 East Turkestan at least twice (in 1933 and 1950) but this
 independence proved to be short-lived. The Uighurs still harbor
 ambitions of becoming an independent state, a red rag for
 Beijing.


 However, no such conclusive evidence has emerged yet. The Uighurs
 have come under the scanner because of ‘circumstantial evidence’.
 The MH 370 episode has come close on the heels of the March 1
 terror incident in which knife-wielding assailants had killed at
 least 29 innocent people at a train station in the southwestern
 Chinese city of Kunming.


 Also, of the 227 passengers on board MH 370 (apart from 12 crew
 members) at least 153 were Chinese nationals, a fact that must
 have been known to the perpetrators.


 Besides, Uighurs continue to have links with Al-Qaeda-affiliated
 group, Jemaah Islamiyah, which has a presence in Malaysia, as
 well as the Philippines and Indonesia.


 Nevertheless, there may be several reasons why the shadowy
 group’s claim is bogus and is just trying to make hay while the
 sun shines. First, the outfit has not given any details of the
 plane which is being searched by 12 countries’ navies. Six days
 after its disappearance, nobody knows what has happened to the
 ill-fated plane. Second, it may just be an attempt to whip up
 ethnic tensions between Uighurs and Han Chinese in China.


 Third, hardcore terrorists seldom claim responsibility for their
 acts, as shown by the University of Maryland’s Global Terrorism
 Database according to which the perpetrators claimed
 responsibility for their acts in only 14 percent of the more than
 45,000 terrorist acts that have occurred since 1998.


 Was China the prime target of the terrorists, if indeed it was a
 terror attack? Which terror group could be behind the suspected
 plane crash? It might be the Chinese Uighurs, but the actual
 perpetrator might still claim responsibility for this outrage
 which is too dastardly and too brutal a crime for any terror
 outfit to take responsibility without alienating the people.
 Besides, isn’t it possible that the real perpetrators would like
 to keep the waters muddied and lie low so that more attacks could
 be launched in the near future.


 There is also a possibility that no organized terror outfit per
 se was involved in the act and instead it may have been a lone
 wolf (two wolves in the current context as the needle of
 suspicion is pointing to two men with "Asian features"
 who boarded the plane on stolen passports). Who will take
 responsibility for the terror attack if the perpetrators, on
 suicide mission, themselves perished?


 Of course the ground staff of Malaysia Airlines and several
 Malaysian agencies are guilty of gross dereliction of duty. First
 they allowed two Asian-looking men who were traveling as European
 citizens to pass unchallenged. Second, they failed to run a check
 of the men’s stolen passports against Interpol's vast database of
 more than 40 million lost and stolen travel documents. Just these
 two preliminary precautions would have prevented the tragedy.


 The dice seem to be heavily loaded in favor of China as prime
 target of the terror attack theory. There are several
 circumstantial reasons for this and China has repeatedly figured
 in the entire narrative thrown up so far.


 The two prime suspects with "Asian features", who
 boarded the plane on stolen passports of two Europeans Christian
 Kozel (Austria) and Luigi Maraldi (Italy), had purchased their
 one-way tickets together from Pattaya (Thailand) and were due to
 fly on to Europe from Beijing. This eliminated the need for the
 duo to apply for a Chinese visa and undergo further checks.


 Thailand has had a festering problem for years with Islamist
 terror outfits like Al-Qaeda in Southeast Asia, and China has
 suspected some of its restive Uyghur population to be in touch
 with terror modules in Southeast Asia.


 Malaysia itself has figured prominently in the Uighur saga in
 recent years and Uighurs do have a reason to hate Malaysia, a
 country which deported several Uighurs to China in 2011 and 2012
 for abortive bids to travel on false passports.


 Uighurs are a Turkic ethnic group living primarily in the
 Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region in China, where they are
 officially recognized as one of the ethnic minorities. In 2009
 violent riots broke out in the region’s capital Ürümqi that
 mainly targeted Han (ethnic Chinese) people. Over 1,000 Uighurs
 were arrested and detained during the riots, over 400
 individuals faced criminal charges. Nine were executed in
 November 2009.


 However, the most important question is whether there is any
 linkage between the Malaysia Airlines plane episode and the March
 1, 2014, weird attack in the south-western Chinese city of
 Kunming, in which knife-wielding assailants killed at least 29
 innocent people at a train station? The two episodes are too
 close for comfort for the Chinese. If an inter-connection is
 established, it would be really very bad news for Beijing.


 There may not be any answers to the questions yet but these are
 leading questions which hopefully should be answered in the next
 few weeks. Hopefully it would not take very long before the
 wreckage of the missing plane is spotted and recovered and the
 Black Box, containing the Flight Data Recorder and Cockpit Voice
 Recorder (CVR), is recovered now that every major navy in the
 region is employed and satellites are being used to track the
 missing flight.


 The discovery of the wreckage itself would proffer a clue to
 whether the plane had a sudden mid-air explosion or whether it
 nose-dived into the sea because of mechanical failure. A violent
 bombing would inevitably throw the wreckage to great distances –
 scores of kilometers at least – while in the latter scenario the
 wreckage would be confined to a much smaller area.
