2014-01~03
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-03-07/chinas-annual-congress-quiet-on-deadly-train-station-attack/5307386

China's National People's Congress quiet on deadly mass stabbing at Kunming train station - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)
Chinese officials have moved to shut down discussion about the gruesome mass stabbing at the Kunming train station just days after the attack.
Last Saturday a group of assailants arrived at the train station, took out long knives and began stabbing passengers at random, killing 33 and wounding 143.
Four attackers were shot by police and officials now say four others have been caught.
Those responsible were described by Chinese officials as "terrorists" from the far-western province of Xinjiang.
But when delegates from the restless province gathered at the annual National People's Congress it was as if the bloody rampage never happened and everyone is content in the vast, predominantly Muslim province.
Over the past year there has been an increasing number of these violent clashes reported inside Xinjiang, where many local ethnic Uighurs seek independence from China.
However, word has clearly come through at the main session of parliament that Xinjiang is not a crucible of terrorist hatred, but a place of vast potential prosperity.
Analysis at the session of parliament on how Xinjiang is faring has largely ignored the bloodshed.
"After listening the premier's report, I, like other fellow delegates, feel very excited and [encouraged]. The report drew a blue print of our country's future. It's accurate and clear," one delegate said.
Another said: "It also clearly stated the detailed measures in the key reform areas. It draws a map for speeding up overall deepening reform and achieving China's dream."
Meanwhile, another delegate said: "I also listened to everyone's wonderful speeches here. They were great. I was educated and encouraged."
After almost two hours of glowing endorsements for the congress's decisions came a 30-minute press conference that comprised only four questions, three of which were planted by the Chinese media.
There was finally a question about so-called "terrorist activity" in Xinjiang.
Xinjiang regional chairman Nur Bekri declared that this was the fault of foreign forces, that these attackers did not represent the interests of anyone and that they just wanted to destroy society.
The meeting was declared over and then a huge, mad scrum of journalists gathered around the local party secretary to try to get something out of him.
Reporters fell over and chairs were knocked down in a tangle of cables, cameras and microphones, but amid the chaos there was no more information about the recent explosion of violence in Xinjiang.

Topics:
world-politics,


 
 government-and-politics,


 
 terrorism,


 
 unrest-conflict-and-war,


 
 death,


 
 china


 First posted 
 
 March 07, 2014 23:03:59
 

For information on how you can help, visit abc.net.au/appeals or call 1800 811 700.
If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC.
Malcolm Turnbull has shown crossbench senators the hangman's noose and their minds will now be focused on one thing: survival.
The PM's manoeuvres over the budget, double dissolution and industrial relations legislation have a familiar Turnbullian feel.
Unless you make plans and talk to loved ones you're unlikely to have any say in how and where you die.
In a fast-changing competition, which AFL teams can improve enough to break into this year's top eight?

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.


AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)
