2014-01~03
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2014/03/01/Mass-stabbing-kills-28-in-Chinese-train-station-five-suspects-killed/UPI-30601393710724/

28 killed, 113 injured in mass stabbing attack in southwestern China - UPI.com
KUNMING, China, March 1 (UPI) -- Chinese authorities said at least 28 civilians were killed and 113 injured Saturday in a mass stabbing at a railway station in the southwest city of Kunming.
Officials called the attack, which began around 9 p.m., inside the busy Kunming Railway Station, a terrorist incident, saying it was pre-mediated, organized and vicious.
At least five of the knife-wielding suspects were killed by police but their identities were not confirmed, China's official Xinhua News Agency reported. A Xinhua reporter at the scene said several suspects were in custody.
More than 60 people were taken to hospitals for treatment of stab wounds, emergency officials said.
Last June, a terrorist attack in Lukqun Township in the Xinjiang Uyger Antonomus Region killed 24 people and injured 13.
"Why are the terrorists so cruel?" Chen Cuizhen, a 50-year-old woman who said her husband was killed in the train station attack, told Xinhua. "I found his ID card on his body. I can't believe he just left me."
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.