2014-01~03
http://city.udn.com/50132/5057420?ch=rss_ugccitynewpost

新聞對照：學者伊力哈木被捕 國際關切 - 打開聯合報 看見紐約時報 - udn城市
China Accuses Uighur Intellectual of Separatism for His Advocacy Work By ANDREW JACOBS
BEIJING — In an ominous sign of the fate awaiting one of China’s best-known Uighur intellectuals, security officials in the far western region of Xinjiang issued a statement on Saturday that accused him of separatism and inciting ethnic hatred.
The statement provides the first concrete indication that the scholar, Ilham Tohti, an economics professor in Beijing, could face a long prison term for his advocacy on behalf of Uighurs, the Turkic-speaking Muslim minority whose uneasy coexistence with the Chinese authorities has grown increasingly violent.
Mr. Tohti has been held incommunicado since Jan. 15, when police officers escorted him from his apartment on the campus of Minzu University of China.
The news that he is likely to face charges of separatism comes at a time of intensifying bloodshed in Xinjiang despite a growing security presence by Chinese soldiers and paramilitary police officers. On Friday, 12 people were killed in a town not far from Xinjiang’s border with Kyrgyzstan in what officials say was a clash involving explosive devices. A state-run news portal said that the police shot and killed six people in Aksu Prefecture, and that six others died in what were described as three explosions. The accounts provided scant details.
Mr. Tohti’s detention coincides with a broad assault on dissent by the new leadership under Xi Jinping, the Communist Party secretary who assumed power in November 2012.
Last week, the authorities put on trial a respected legal scholar, Xu Zhiyong, who helped create a grass-roots civic organization devoted to fighting social injustice and official corruption. He was sentenced on Sunday to four years in prison.
A vocal advocate for China’s embattled Uighur minority, Mr. Tohti, 44, was the rare public figure willing to speak to the foreign news media about the Chinese government’s policies in the vast region that borders several Central Asian countries. He was also the target of frequent harassment by the Chinese authorities, especially after he helped establish Uighurbiz.net, a website for news and commentary on Uighur issues.
Censors blocked the site in 2009 after ethnic violence in Urumqi, the regional capital, claimed nearly 200 lives. Since then several people involved with the website have been given long jail terms, including a 15-year sentence for one of its contributors, Gheyret Niyaz.
In the statement issued Saturday night on its microblog account, the Urumqi Bureau of State Security accused Mr. Tohti of inciting violence against the Chinese authorities and recruiting people to join a movement for an independent East Turkestan nation. Uighurbiz, the statement said, had “concocted, distorted and hyped up” acts of ethnic bloodshed.
“Ilham Tohti exploited his status as a teacher to recruit, entice and coerce people to form gangs, and to collude with ‘East Turkestan’ leaders in planning, organizing and assigning people to go abroad to join in separatist activities,” the statement said.
Analysts outside China have long questioned the official narrative about the violence in Xinjiang, including allegations that the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a murky terrorist organization, was behind much of the bloodshed.
Mr. Tohti was among those who played down the strength and size of the organization, saying that many of the clashes involving Uighurs and the police were rooted in the daily frustrations experienced by Uighurs disenfranchised by repressive policies and uneven economic development. A significant portion of Mr. Tohti’s academic work delved into the high unemployment of young Uighurs unable to compete for jobs with recently arrived Han Chinese migrants.
In interviews with The New York Times, Mr. Tohti condemned the growing violence, but called on Beijing to re-examine its economic policies and ease its heavy-handed administration of the region.
Over the past year, confrontations have been occurring with greater frequency, alarming Chinese leaders and prompting heavier security in the strategically important and energy-rich region. Beijing recently announced that it was doubling Xinjiang’s public security budget, with one regional official vowing “no mercy for terrorists,” according to the state news media.
Exile groups like the World Uyghur Congress attribute many recent Uighur deaths to aggressive police tactics, and say that many of those killed by the police and described as “terrorists” were carrying only knives or farming tools.
Over the past two months, nearly three dozen Uighurs in southern Xinjiang have been shot and killed by the police, including three young men shot on Jan. 15 outside a police station in Yengieriq, in Aksu Prefecture.
In that episode, security agents opened fire after the men had been denied entry to a local police station, according to Radio Free Asia. The report quoted local police officials as saying the men were carrying sickles and described them as “separatists.”
In the episode on Friday, officials said the attacks occurred in and around a hair salon and vegetable market in the county seat of Xinhe. In an account posted on the state-run Tianshan news portal, the authorities said one of the explosions occurred after the police “besieged” what was described as a suspicious vehicle. Two of the dead had been sitting inside the vehicle, the report said. The authorities arrested three people and several others were injured, including a police officer.
Over the years, Mr. Tohti had become inured to the constant surveillance and the occasional detention, including forced “vacations” during which minders would escort him to a hotel outside Beijing for days or weeks.
In November, as he and his family drove through the university gates, he said, a car driven by plainclothes security agents rammed into his vehicle, and the men threatened to kill his wife and children if he did not stop speaking to the foreign news media. The episode occurred days after a deadly attack near Tiananmen Square in which a Uighur man drove a sport utility vehicle along a sidewalk, striking numerous pedestrians and killing two before the vehicle hit a bridge and exploded. A security official later blamed the East Turkestan Islamic Movement for the attack, although he provided no evidence of the group’s involvement.
Last February, the authorities stopped Mr. Tohti at Beijing International Airport as he prepared to travel for a visiting scholar position at Indiana University. After eight hours of interrogation, Mr. Tohti was released, but the police refused to let him leave the country.
During the raid of his apartment this month, security agents carted off documents, computers and cellphones while his wife and two young children looked on, unable to leave, his wife, Guzaili Nu’er, said in an interview. At least six of his students were also taken into custody, she said.
Mr. Tohti was acutely aware that his freedom was tenuous. In one interview in 2010, he expressed resignation over his fate, noting the constant police harassment was wearing him down.
“If things here don’t change as quickly as I’d like, sooner or later I will be doomed,” he said. “Perhaps I will be sent to hell, but I don’t care because in some ways I am already there.”