2014-01~03
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/10682185/China-warns-influential-commentators-to-stick-to-party-line-on-Kunming-attack.html

China warns influential commentators to stick to party line on Kunming attack - Telegraph
Chinese police have named and threatened some of the country's most influential journalists and commentators for questioning the party line on a terror attack in Kunming.
In recent months, the Chinese authorities have stepped beyond censorship to directly threaten people with large followings on the internet with grim repercussions, including jail time, if they do not stay on message. The strategy has had a chilling effect on public discourse, stopping most celebrities from speaking freely.
Yesterday marked another severe escalation of the trend, as Beijing's cybersecurity police posted screenshots of five accounts which they said had "ignored the facts [about the killings in Kunming], distorted the situation and hurt the feelings of the people".
Last Saturday, eight attackers dressed in black slashed 29 people to death at the south western city's railway station. The government said the attackers were ethnic Uighurs fighting for the independence of the far western region of Xinjiang.
Feng Xiang, a journalist for the Southern Weekend newspaper, posted a comment on his Weibo account in the wake of the attack that the authorities "never tell you what really happens".

China's Sina Weibo is in danger of becoming boring - just how the authorities want it

"They just let you blindly hate each other, live in fear and confusion without reason and die in ignorance," he wrote.
His words were reposted by Li Chengpeng, a hugely influential commentator with seven million followers on Weibo, and by Luo Changping, an investigative journalist with 350,000 followers. Two other writers questioned whether the attacks had arisen because of China's repressive policies in Xinjiang.
"I think using force to keep stability is not the right way. We should find the root of their hatred and that would be the right way to solve the conflict," wrote Yan Ming, whose Weibo account has since been deleted.
"We must admit the imperfection of the society and its failure," wrote Cheng Meixin, another writer.
Beijing police's cybersecurity unit "seriously" warned all five men that "as public figures you need to be responsible for what you say". It added that if they violated the law, they would be punished. Last year, China introduced a regulation saying that internet users can be imprisoned if their posts go viral and prove to be "rumours".
The post by the police channeled a wave of public anger on the celebrities, with some calling for Li Chengpeng's "links to foreign terrorists" to be investigated.
Mr Li quickly responded that even the "inquisition" of writers during the Qing dynasty had been less pervasive. He added that his post had been deleted on the orders of the head of Weibo and that he was waiting for the police to act. "Shall I turn myself in or wait at home for you to come and get me?" he asked.
As well as threatening the five men, the authorities said they had rounded up 45 people after the Kunming attack for posting rumours that could have caused public unrest.
"Some individuals spread rumours that groups of terrorists had infiltrated other cities and that other attacks had happened. These rumours deliberately caused panic and disturbed social order," the police said, adding that some of the people had been warned and others detained.
The threats from the cybersecurity unit came one week after Xi Jinping, the Chinese president, named himself the head of a new Central Internet Security group that will enhance the government's control of cyberspace.
They also came as Xinjiang's party secretary, Zhang Chunxian, blamed the violence in Kunming on "the fast spread of informatisation".
He suggested that Muslim Uighurs are being radicalised by circumventing China's web controls to watch videos posted by Islamists on the web.
"By that I mean, 90 per cent of terrorism in Xinjiang comes from jumping the [Great Firewall]. Violence and terrorism keep happening due to the videos on the internet," he said.

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
