2014-01~03
http://www.worldbulletin.net/haberler/129654/china-charges-uighur-academic-tohti-with-separatism

China charges Uighur academic Tohti with 'separatism' | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
Authorities in China's far western region of Xinjiang (East Turkestan) have charged a prominent Uighur professor with 'separatism', his wife and lawyer said on Tuesday, in a case which has attracted concern in the United States and Europe.
Police in Beijing last month detained Ilham Tohti, a well-known economist who has championed the rights of the Muslim Uighur community, who come from Xinjiang. He was subsequently taken to Xinjiang's regional capital Urumqi.
Tohti's wife, Guzailai Nu'er, said she had received a notice that his arrest had been formally approved and he was being charged with separatism.
"This is ridiculous. He's never done anything like this. He is a teacher," she told Reuters by telephone from her house in Beijing.
Tohti's lawyer, Li Fangping, said that he would try and see his client on Wednesday, but he had so far not been given access.
"We'll see how things go in the morning," Li said from Urumqi where Tohti is being held in a detention centre.
Reuters was unable to reach the Xinjiang government for comment.
The case against Tohti is the latest sign of the government's hardening stance in Xinjiang, where unrest in the past year has killed more than 100 Muslims.
Rights activists say Tohti has challenged the government's version of several incidents involving Uighurs, including what China says was its first major suicide attack, in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October, involving people from Xinjiang, by pointing out inconsistencies in the official accounts.
Tohti, an economics professor at Beijing's Minzu University which specialises in ethnic minority studies, told Reuters in November that state security agents had physically threatened him for speaking to foreign reporters.
China has blamed some of the incidents on militants and separatists who want to establish an independent state called East Turkestan. But rights groups and exiles say China uses this rhetoric to justify its firm grip on energy-rich Xinjiang, which borders Central Asia, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India.
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
