2014-01~03
http://www.bignewsnetwork.com/index.php/sid/220294281/scat/b8de8e630faf3631/ht/Chinese-police-capture-three-more-suspects-in-knife-attack-case

Chinese police capture three more suspects in knife attack case
Our eNewspaper network was founded in 2002 to provide stand-alone digital news sites tailored for the most searched-for locations for news. With a traditional newspaper format, more than 100 sites were established each with a newspaper-type name to cover the highest-ranked regions, countries, cities and states. Each site operates independently providing around-the-clock local news coverage, global & business updates, RSS feeds, and news releases.
Established in 1999, each News.Net site specializes in local news, weather, international headlines, business and finance reports. The News.Net directory of sites covers every major region, country and city around the world, as well as U.S. states and industry sectors. Each independently-operated portal is networked throughout the social media spectrum and is administered by Mainstream Media EC on behalf of Big News Network.
Officials are blaming the knife attack on an outlawed separatist group from Xinjiang province in the country's northwest.
The three arrested were part of an eight-member group led by Abdurehim Kurban.
"Of an eight-member group (six men, two women), four were shot dead by police at the scene, a wounded woman was arrested and the other three have been captured," said the official Xinhua news agency.
The name of the group leader, Abdurehim Kurban, appears to indicate he is a member of China's Uighur ethnic minority from Xinjiang.
On Saturday, eight attackers wearing black and armed with long knives burst into the south-western city's railway station, slashing and stabbing people at random, according to state media and eye witness accounts.
The injured woman suspect reportedly gave away the details of the entire gang to police.
An official said that flags used by an outlawed separatist group from Xinjiang had been found at the scene of the attack. The flags are the first evidence to back Chinese authorities' claim that the assault was a terrorist attack carried out by separatists from Xinjiang.
Foreign ministry spokesman Qin Gang said at a news briefing that police had found "East Turkestan" flags, using the name by which separatists from Xinjiang's mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic group often describe their homeland.
Qin did not provide further details about the flags and said Chinese authorities were probing the matter and the findings would be published "in a timely manner."
Some Chinese social media sites have published a picture of a black flag with a white crescent moon and star, which they said had been found by police at the site of the attack.
China has blamed most of the separatist unrest in Xinjiang over the last decade on a separatist group called the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), which Chinese authorities say has links to al Qaeda.
Meng Jianzhu, China's top security official, arrived in Kunming early Monday to oversee the probe into the incident. President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang sent condolences to the victims and their families.
Meng visited the injured and their families and then went to the Kunming Railway Station to investigate the scene.
The attack comes ahead of the annual meeting of parliament, which opens in Beijing on Wednesday.
Beijing has also accused the ETIM group of masterminding an attack in Beijing in October in which three people set their vehicle on fire in front of the entrance to the Forbidden City, killing themselves and two tourists.
Beijing successfully lobbied the U.S. and the United Nations to include ETIM on their lists of terrorist organizations after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the US. 
