2014-01~03
http://www.beijingbulletin.com/index.php/sid/230587095

China Targets Muslims, Curbs Freedom of Speech For All: Report - Beijing Bulletin
During 2014, the ruling Chinese Communist Party intensified its targeting of ethnic minority groups with an "anti-terror" campaign in the troubled northwestern region of Xinjiang, and ratcheted up controls on freedom of expression, Amnesty International said in its annual global human rights report.
Ethnic minorities including Tibetans, mostly Muslim Uyghurs, and Mongolians faced discrimination and targeting by security forces, the London-based group said in a report published on its website on Wednesday.
The administration of President Xi Jinping last year launched a "strike hard" terror campaign in Xinjiang that targeted legitimate religious activities among the region's Muslims, according to the report.
"The authorities stepped up already onerous restrictions on Islam with the stated aim of fighting 'violent terrorism and religious extremism,'" Amnesty International said.
"Uyghurs faced widespread discrimination in employment, education, housing and curtailed religious freedom, as well as political marginalization," the report said.
It added that county governments had posted notices requiring schoolteachers to feed ethnic minority Uyghur pupils with food and sweets to ensure they couldn't observe the fasting month of Ramadan.
Meanwhile, prohibitions on government employees and Communist Party cadres adhering to any religion were reinforced.
"Several Uyghur officials were punished for downloading religious materials from the Internet or 'worshipping openly,'" the report said, adding that outward signs of adherence to Islam such as beards or veils were often banned.
The "strike hard" anti-terror campaign launched by the government last May had raised concerns that more than 200 people accused of membership in "terrorist and extremist groups" would not receive fair trials, Amnesty said.
"Top officials prioritized speed in making arrests and convening trials, while calling for greater "co-operation" between prosecuting authorities and courts," the report said.
The authorities held several mass "sentencing rallies" including on attended by 7,000 people in a stadium on May 29, at which 55 people, believed to be Uyghurs, were sentenced for crimes including terrorism, it said.
It said official accounts of a July 28 shooting in Yarkand (in Chinese, Shache) county had been challenged by Uyghurs, who said security personnel had opened fire on hundreds of unarmed Uyghur protesters.
Tibetans, meanwhile, continued to face discrimination and restrictions on their rights to freedoms of religious belief, expression, association, and assembly, amid continuing self-immolations, the report said.
It said local authorities had targeted some relatives and friends of those who self-immolated for allegedly helping them to do so.
Anyone with links to Tibetans overseas or found with materials linked to exiled spiritual leader the Dalai Lama has been barred from senior office or from running in village elections, the report said.
Across China, the government also took further measures to "severely restrict the right to freedom of expression," the report said.
"Activists and human rights defenders risked harassment and arbitrary detention," the report said. "Torture and other ill-treatment remained widespread and access to justice was elusive for many."
The authorities continued to harass, arbitrarily detain, imprison, torture, and otherwise mistreat activists for legitimate human rights work, the report said.
"[We saw people held in] black jails, illegal house arrest, a lot of activists held for 'picking quarrels and stirring up trouble', 'disrupting public order,' and crimes like that," Amnesty International China researcher Patrick Poon told RFA.
Last year's crackdown saw increased reports of torture and mistreatment of prisoners of conscience while in custody, Poon said, citing the case of four rights lawyers "arbitrarily detained and tortured" after they tried to visit a client held at an unofficial detention center in the northeastern province of Heilongjiang.
Lawyer Tang Jitian reported being "strapped to an iron chair, slapped in the face, kicked, and hit so hard over the head with a plastic bottle filled with water that he passed out," the report said.
"He said he was later hooded and handcuffed behind his back and suspended by his wrists, while police continued to beat him."
It said one victim of torture had died in custody after police in Heilongjiang's Harbin city used electric shocks to elicit information. Four people were later found guilty of torture under police supervision.
China is also increasingly exporting torture and law enforcement equipment overseas, Amnesty International said.
"China consolidated its position as a major manufacturer and exporter of a growing range of law enforcement equipment, including items with no legitimate policing function such as electric shock stun batons and weighted leg cuffs," the report said.
It said China has also freely exported equipment that could be used legitimately in law enforcement but is easily abused, such as tear gas or riot control vehicles, without adequate controls to prevent serious human rights violations.
The report said police had switched tactics following the abolition of the "re-education through labor" camp system, arbitrarily holding people in other locations instead.
Legal education centers, various forms of administrative detention, 'black jails,' and illegal house arrest were all used to silence perceived troublemakers, while many activists were held under criminal detention on vague public order charges.
The authorities continued to issue rules and regulations targeting freedom of expression, with a new task force set up in charge of "coordinating Internet security," especially ideological efforts to repel "hostile foreign forces" online, the report said.
Lawyers were barred from discussing cases or writing open letters while working on cases, or from criticizing the government or legal system, while journalists were banned from reporting on stories outside their current specialty, and from posting articles without their employers' approval.
In Hong Kong, Amnesty International spokeswoman Mabel Au said, the 79-day Occupy Central mass pro-democracy campaign had led to police mistreatment of protesters, in spite of being nonviolent.
"We don't think the police used force in accordance with international standards," Au told RFA.
"We saw a number of acts of excessive force and violence against citizens, including their use of tear-gas that breached some international standards," she said.
"It was unnecessary for the police to fire 87 rounds of tear-gas," citing U.N. standards for the use of tear gas.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Forty percent of India's population may not have drinking water by 2030, if the water crisis in country is not met seriously, a study has warned.
With the country facing a grave water crisis and lack of water conservation, the availability of potable water and ground water has decreased over the years which would result in severe situation in the country after a decade, said an activist for water conservation on the eve of World Water Day (March 22) observed to create awareness about water related issues and for action to deal with the global water crisis.
"By 2030, 40 percent of the total population in the country will not have drinking water if situation remains same," Jal Jan Jodo Abhiyan's national convenor Sanjay Singh told IANS, quoting a research published recently by the 2030 Water Resource Group (WRG).
"The ground water is depleting, the small tributaries have dried up to 90 percent and the flow of rivers has reduced by 60-65 percent. This will lead to a severe situation in the coming years reducing water availability to a great extent," he added.
He also said that the per capita demand has increased whereas the availability is very less. In fact, a report on ground water published by PRS Legislative Research --a non-governmental organisation -- says: "Due to increasing population, the national per capita annual availability of water has reduced by 15 percent from 2001 to 2011."
It also said that India uses almost twice the amount of water to grow crops as compared to China and the US.
"The gap between the availability and demand is increasing at a greater pace. Cities like Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai and other metropolitan cities consume water in huge quantities due to changed lifestyle of people. This must be looked into," Singh told IANS.
He also said that the efforts done by the government were not enough to meet the crisis.
South Asia Network on Dam, Rivers and People coordinator Himanshu Thakkar says water crisis in the country is multidimensional and is aggravating fast because of various factors including mismanagement of the resource.
He anticipates big problems based on the water crisis looming large in the country, if the situation continues.
"Ground water is the lifeline of the country which is depleting very fast. Water is part of ecological system as every living thing on earth needs water so if not dealt with properly the perennial water crisis may lead to more serious problems like food crisis, livelihood crisis, social conflicts," Thakkar told IANS.
He said that social conflicts based on water crisis have already started in the country. Tension between Haryana and Punjab over Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal project and conflicts in Marathwada region of Maharashtra over water are the latest examples.
"In terms of water crisis in India things have now come to such a pass that a district collector in Latur district in Maharashtra had to implement section 144 to avoid clashes between people due to water crisis," Thakkar told IANS.
Blaming the government in general being the major contributor towards the crisis, Thakkar said the government machinery was solely responsible for failing in water management.
"Government is responsible for water crisis in terms of mismanagement. The government does not involve people in the management of water. This year is a drought year so the problem has increased manifold but the efforts of the government does not seem sufficient to deal with the crisis," he said.
About the water crisis in Delhi, he said that mismanagement on part of governments can be seen easily as in February, Jat protesters took over Munak canal in Haryana stopping water supply to the national capital and it took over a fortnight to deal with the consequences.
Ruwa Shah can be contacted at ruwa.s@ians.in and Ashish Mishra can be contacted at ashish.m@ians.in)

BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
China has set lower targets for improving its energy efficiency by the end of 2020 ...
Chinese authorities in the northern region of Inner Mongolia are holding five ethnic Mongolian herders ...
Get the latest Beijing Bulletin headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Beijing Bulletin - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved