2014-01~03
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Vigil-for-29-dead-and-over-130-injured-in-Kunming-massacre-30448.html

CHINA Vigil for 29 dead and over 130 injured in Kunming massacre
Kunming ( AsiaNews / Agencies) -
Last night a hundred people held a candlelight vigil at the train station in
Kunming (Yunnan Province), where March 1 last a bloody attack targeted commuters
and passengers. Men
and women dressed in black and wearing masks assaulted bystanders with curved
swords and meat cleavers, instantly killing 29 people and wounding more than
130. The
critically injured includes a woman six months pregnant. According
to the Chinese authorities ethnic Uyghur "separatists" are responsible
for the attack. However,
there is still no evidence against them.
The massacre took place at 21:30
on Saturday evening. The
Kunming station, in the capital of Yunnan, is one of the largest and busiest in
all of China. The
police have described the massacre as "a well-organized terrorist attack":
The attackers randomly stabbed those present, in the chest , neck and head. Four
of them - three men and one woman - were killed on the spot by police. Another
woman suspect is under arrest and is in hospital.
More than 100 people participated
in a spontaneous vigil last night. A
53 year old man said he was find"very saddened" by what happened, but
urged the government to provide answers to the problems in Xinjiang. "No
one ever told us why there is so much tension there - said the man - what did
our government do to attract so much anger?".
The Uyghur ethnic group
lives in the northern autonomous region of Xinjiang, is of the Turkish language
and the Muslim faith, and denounces a strong linguistic, cultural and religious
repression by the Chinese central government. Over the years there have been
numerous violent clashes between the two sides: Beijing argues the region is
home to Islamic extremists and separatists, while local activists pointing the
finger at ethnic tensions caused by the Chinese control and "racist"
policies in implemented by the central government.
Chinese President Xi Jinping said
that the government "will do everything" to clarify what happened and
bring the perpetrators to justice. The governments of Russia, France, the
United States and Japan have unanimously condemned the attack and expressed
their condolences to the victims. Ban
Ki- moon, Secretary General of the United Nations, said that " there is no
justification for the murder of innocent civilians."

The attack took place a few days before two important appointments for Chinese
politics: the opening of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference
(CPPCC), scheduled for today, and the National People's Congress (NPC, China's
parliament), on March 5.

Tens of thousands of people have been displaced and many wounded. A toxic black cloud covered the sky for hours. The cause of the blasts is "unknown" so far. Thousands of people die each year in tens of thousands of industrial accidents.
The worst storms in recent years have forced more than one million people to flee
AsiaNews spoke to Josephine, one of hundreds of Christians from Al-Hasakah, who spent a year in the hands of the Islamic State group. She talked about psychological suffering, conversion attempts, and separation from her male relatives. She survived thanks to her faith. Her mother Caroline, a Caritas official, is the only one in her family to have been spared the ordeal. She also negotiated their release with IS, and gave a Jihadi copies of the Bible. Now she hopes “to meet the pope” with her entire family.
Sister Rani Maria was killed in 1995, stabbed 54 times. The murderer was a radical Hindu, incited by village leaders, who wanted to stop the nun's activities in favor of tribal poor. The path "that led me to forgive Samunder Singh has not been easy, but now he's my brother." Instead, "my mother said once: 'I would kiss his hands, because on them there is the blood of my daughter'." The exchange of the Indian bracelet that celebrates love between siblings; the moment of encounter with the victim's mother.

 
2003 © All rights reserved - AsiaNews C.F. e P.Iva: 00889190153 - GLACOM®
Copyright ÂŠ 2003 AsiaNews C.F. 00889190153 All rights reserved. Content on this site is made available for personal, non-commercial use only. You may not reproduce, republish, sell or otherwise distribute the content or any modified or altered versions of it without the express written permission of the editor. Photos on AsiaNews.it are largely taken from the internet and thus considered to be in the public domain. Anyone contrary to their publication need only contact the editorial office which will immediately proceed to remove the photos.