2014-01~03
http://www.un.org/sg/offthecuff/index.asp?nid=3327/RK=0/RS=ypBXkC5nKjZSZkgCrst7KeRYJxQ-

Secretary-General’s answers to questions raised at Security Council meeting on Sexual Exploitation and Abuse | Secretary General's Off-the-Cuff Remarks

 Thank you, Mr. President, and distinguished members of the Council.
 First of all, I would like to thank you for your initiative in organizing this very important subject, which has a lot to do with our reputation and of our work in the future.
 This open discussion on this shameful issue will raise the urgency and awareness of the necessity of taking immediate action based on the principle of accountability and transparency. It has really made me not only humbled and feeling very much regretful, as well as shame-filled, as Secretary-General of the United Nations, but I am sure that this message that you have conveyed strongly without any ambiguity will have myself and senior advisors of the United Nations, who are engaged in this, particularly at the responsible positions of staff, will be much more committed on this matter.
 Again, I am very much feeling sorry for the victims, and particularly those young minors whose human rights and dignity have been totally abused by this. I really apologise for not having taken as much thorough care on this matter.
 I really thank you for your providing, presenting clear guidelines and directions to the Secretariat, myself and for the world. The United Nations is very much committed on that.
 As Ambassador Samantha Power has eloquently and passionately and emotionally stated – this has much to do with our reputation. And how come we have not been able to address this issue so much, much earlier. There are some people who really make a problem.  There is a saying that a small roach or mudfish can make a clean stream dirty and murky. But we have to really get rid of, eliminate these kind of practices – these kind of roaches and mudfish.
 I am very much committed to working with you on this matter. At the same time, while this has been quite shameful, we have to honour the integrity and sacrifice and hard work of tens of thousands of peacekeepers and police officers who are working under very difficult and often dangerous circumstances.  We have lost a lot of peacekeepers.  We have to really honour their reputation; their integrity, their honour should not be tarnished by the small number of people. I am really committing myself on this matter.
 During my term as Secretary-General, since 2007, I have been really raising this issue as one of my top priorities - how to end violence against women. In 2007, you may remember that I launched a Unite to End Violence against Women [campaign].  In 2008, knowing that without changing the mentality of men, I established a Man Leaders’ Network. I have reached out to so many man leaders – government leaders, business community leaders, religious leaders. We have been reaching out to the world to eliminate these practices. Now, what is happening in-house now? We have been neglecting our concerns in-house. This is happening in-house. We have to be responsible on this matter.  And of course, I have appointed for the first time the Special Representative on Sexual Violence, and I have a Special Representative on Children and Armed Conflict, and I have again appointed,  most recently, Jane Holl Lute.  Appointing Special Representatives or responsible persons may be helpful, but I need everybody – all Member States, and the Secretariat and the people who are working in the field. I think all these three parts of people must work together.
 As I have presented in my report, I think this should be addressed comprehensively. First and foremost, we have to do much, much more on ending this violence. Then how to help those people?  I really appreciate your willingness to provide financial and other material support to the Trust Fund. At the same time, I am also grateful for your agreement to my proposal that all salaries of those people who have committed violence would be withheld, and will be used, transferred to the Trust Fund.  Those are just small things, but I would really need your strong support.
 Now, how to make sure that accountability, responsibility, should be there and enhanced and implemented without making this accountability process firmly established in the mind set and in our system, I think we will be able to [inaudible] have to see continuing this kind of crime. In that regard, I am making sure that we will expedite our investigations on current pending issues.
 From 2010 until 2015 we have received 407 alleged cases.  Out of these, we have 80 percent of cases concluded.  We still have, as of end of 2015, 54 cases.  Among these 54 cases, I think a big chunk are the cases which have been reported in 2015. Of the 2012 [cases] I think we have concluded  all the investigations.  2013 – we have still three cases. 2014 - we have three cases outstanding and we will make sure we expedite this investigation as much as possible. Out of 407 cases we have concluded 353 cases.  But still 48 cases are still remaining.  I will make sure that we will expedite. Even though I suggested six-month investigations, we will have even shorten this investigation process.
 Once allegations have been reported, or a report has been received, we will take interim measures, for example, suspending the persons involved from the Mission, or confining to barracks, or giving some other conditions which will have to confine this person inside the Missions. And of course, the salaries will be withheld as much as possible.
 In the course of discussions, some Member States have, of course I agree that the honour and reputation of the TCC countries should be respected. We have been respecting this honour, without disclosing the name of a country up to most recently. But that, we have realised, has not helped much. That is why last year we have returned [peacekeepers from] certain Member States whose names have already been publicized and we also established a Conduct and Discipline website where we are making all the names of the countries and cases always available to the Member States and to the public and to the international community. Therefore, there may be always some questions whether shaming and naming is good policy or not, at this time. Sometimes we need to make it known to the public so that they will also be motivated so improve their way of conducting their business. In that regard, as most of you have explained and expressed, it will be extremely important that troop contributing countries have pre-deployment education and training, and firm and strong education, training, on the importance of respecting human rights, particularly respecting gender empowerment, not to commit gender imbalance.
 Without the strong engagement and commitment of the Member States it will be extremely difficult for only Secretariat to manage these cases. As Secretary-General, during the last many years, I have been confronting many Heads of States – in front of, directly, blushing – “you cannot go like this.” Some Heads of State made some excuses. “This was not done by my people.” I am talking about national crimes, national sexual violence – not UN. “This has been committed by rebels.”
 “But Mr. President, is it not that you are the President of this sovereign state within the territorial boundaries. Now whoever commits this crime, it is your responsibility, you have to be accountable.” I have been really blushing and fighting with Heads of State. I am now asking again, and committing myself again, to really confront with any country who are continuing to commit these kinds of crime, particularly within the United Nations, in-house. I think we have to make our house clean and then I can go to Member States worldwide to eradicate this sexual violence against women. This is my strong commitment. And I really count on your strong engagement and support. I really appreciate this kind of Security Council [session], raising this issue.