2014-01~03
http://my.news.yahoo.com/china-finds-power-clipped-dealing-malaysia-mh370-probe-051124187.html

Yahoo

Singaporeans generally travel visa-free, but there are still a handful of countries that will require you to apply for a visa.
 

 
 Before you book those tickets »
 

Apple unveiled a small new iPhone, a new iPad tablet for business use and price cuts for its Apple Watch at a product event Monday. The announcements, which were largely expected, aim to keep up the company's ...
If you have a $500,000 portfolio, download “The 15-Minute Retirement Plan” by Forbes columnist Ken Fisher’s firm to learn more.
PUTRAJAYA, March 21 — Islam frowns on Muslims who will ally themselves with their religion’s critics to achieve their goals no matter how “noble”, Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak said today....
China called on Indonesia Monday to release the crew of a Chinese fishing boat detained during a maritime confrontation, as Jakarta lodged a furious protest in the escalating row. The incident happened Saturday as Indonesian surveillance vessels tried to detain the trawler suspected of operating illegally near Indonesian islands in the South China Sea. After stopping the boat and removing eight crew members, the Indonesians were towing the vessel to shore when the Chinese coastguard appeared and rammed into the detained boat, helping to release it.
Australian college basketball star Ben Simmons will enter this year's NBA draft and is expected to be the No.1 pick, ESPN reported on Monday. Simmons, 19, had a sparkling season for Louisiana State University where his play earned lofty comparisons to Los Angeles Lakers legend Magic Johnson. "I'm making it official," Simmons was quoted by ESPN as saying when asked about his plans to enter the June 23 draft.
Everything you have ever wanted to know about the best home security systems. All on Yahoo Search!
The Chinese distributor of martial arts movie Ip Man 3 -- starring former world heavyweight boxing champion Mike Tyson -- has had its licence suspended for making up thousands of screenings in a huge box office fraud, regulators said. The movie, also starring Donnie Yen, is the third instalment in a series of Hong Kong films about the life of famed Wing Chun master Yip Man, teacher of Bruce Lee and other martial arts legends. Chinese film distributors and cinemas often try to inflate box office figures in order to create blockbuster buzz for new releases and attract moviegoers.
KUALA LUMPUR, March 21 — The controversial Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) will likely end if Donald Trump become the next US president and the world superpower opts to withdraw from the trade...
KUALA LUMPUR, March 21 — The Barisan Nasional’s (BN) corruption allegation against Lim Guan Eng over the Penang chief minister’s house purchase is personally motivated, Opposition Leader Datuk Seri...
Women everywhere are saving thousands of dollars on cosmetic procedures by reducing the appearance of wrinkles from the comfort of their own home.
KUALA LUMPUR, March 21 — The world’s first Shariah-compliant airline is under investigation for allegedly issuing handwritten boarding passes, which Transport Minister Datuk Seri Liow Tiong Lai...
Zayn Malik claims he wasn't allowed to dye his hair when he was part of teen boy band One Direction.
Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini said on Sunday he was not losing control of his players despite their increasingly disappointing form since learning that he would be leaving the club at the end of the season. The 1-0 derby defeat at home to Manchester United in the Premier League was City's fifth in 10 games in all competitions, leaving the normally unflappable Pellegrini with an unusually tetchy demeanour when asked about the reasons behind the slump. The loss not only effectively ended City's title challenge but now also leaves their Champions League place next season, once considered a near-certainty, increasingly in the balance.
Seriously, if you experience any of these 4 symptoms it could mean you're about to have a heart attack. This could save your life.
By Alan Baldwin LONDON (Reuters) - Formula One's existing safety measures saved Fernando Alonso's life in a horrific crash on Sunday at the season-opening Australian Grand Prix but his escape has added a twist to the debate about proposed improvements to cockpit protection. The Spaniard clambered from his demolished McLaren after the high-speed crash with Mexican Esteban Gutierrez's Haas and later posted an Instagram photograph of himself holding the Melbourne Herald Sun bearing the front-page headline 'Luckiest Man Alive'. The two-time Formula One world champion said he extricated himself so his mother would see he was safe.
PUTRAJAYA, March 21 — A senior official in the scandal-hit Youth and Sports Ministry has been suspended from his duties on half pay pending completion of his corruption investigation, Chief...
More than 40 millionaires, including members of the Rockefeller and Disney families, are asking to have their taxes raised to help address poverty and rebuild failing infrastructure. The millionaires wrote ...
Don't use the internet in the U.S until you've seen the truth about Online ID protection & anonymity CNN calling this "A game changer for all..
A top Russian aviation official says it's going to be very difficult to extract the data from a FlyDubai plane that crashed in southern Russia, hampering the investigation into the tragedy that killed ...
PUTRAJAYA, March 21 — The Auditor-General will initiate an audit of the Youth and Sports Ministry following a multimillion-ringgit corruption scandal involving a senior official, Chief Secretary to...
Cameron Diaz has no immediate plans to return to acting.
A scientific revolution is helping aging men build new muscle and it will blow you away...
KUALA LUMPUR, March 21 — China Railway Group Limited (CREC) will spend US$2 billion (RM8.14 billion) to set up its regional centre in the Bandar Malaysia land bank. Prime Minister Datuk Seri...
A judge at England's High Court on Monday pleaded with US pop megastar Madonna and her British film director ex-husband to resolve a legal dispute over their son Rocco amicably. Alistair MacDonald said it would be a "very great tragedy" if any more of the 15-year-old's childhood was lost in the spat between Madonna and Guy Ritchie over where he should live. Judges have heard that Rocco had remained in London with his father after a visit in early December.
By John O'Donnell FRANKFURT (Reuters) - The top 10 percent of Germans have almost 60 percent of the wealth, a study by the central bank found on Monday, laying bare a wide gap between the richest and the poorest in Europe's biggest economy. Although Germany is known for its post-war social market economy, which established a generous welfare state alongside pro-industrial policies, the Bundesbank found that half the population had little or no wealth. The Bundesbank identified rising property prices as driving wealth for those who own it, while those who rent, as many Germans do, were falling behind.
Don't buy a new PC or call a repair company before reading this. Simple "3 click Fix" will have your computer running like new again.
Taiwan's Foxconn is likely to reduce its capital injection into embattled Japanese electronics firm Sharp Corp by around 100 billion yen ($898 million), from an initial plan of 489 billion yen, Japan's Jiji News reported on Monday. Last month, Sharp said it would issue around $4.4 billion worth of new shares to give Foxconn a two-thirds stake, but the Taiwanese electronics company put its takeover bid on hold at the last minute due to what sources said was the discovery of previously undisclosed liabilities. Foxconn is reviewing the bid given concerns about future losses as well as on deterioration in Sharp's earnings in the financial year to March 31, Jiji reported.


Workers' Party will not contest Bukit Batok SMC in by-election


Nature groups double MacRitchie walks in March to raise awareness


Tan Cheng Bock: President's role is to 'look after your money'


‘31 Days of Halloween’: Mom Transforms Herself Into Unforgettable Characters


Photos Reveal a Side of Cosplayers You Won’t See at Comic Con


Ben Affleck Calls Jennifer Garner a 'Superhero Mom': ‘I'm Really Lucky to Have Her’


Melissa McCarthy Opens Up About ‘The Boss’ Being a Family Affair


Jennifer Lopez Is Overcome with Emotion on Thursday Night’s ‘American Idol’


Watch Emma Watson Drop a Beat in the Name of Gender Equality


Kylie Snapchats the ‘Keeping Up With the Kardashians' Moment When She Met Tyga


Shailene Woodley, Naomi Watts and Zoë Kravitz Talk ‘Allegiant’ Girl Power Message


Ben Higgins and Fiancée Lauren Bushnell Go on First Public Date — Get the Details!


Adele Tears Up on Stage As She Reveals 3-Year-Old Son Is Seeing Her In Concert for the First Time