2014-01~03
http://www.economist.com/blogs/analects/2014/03/violence-changsha

Violence in Changsha: Bloodshed at the bakery | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
KNIFE-wielding assailants have this morning killed five people and caused havoc at a street market in Changsha, a city in central China, according to state media. Police shot dead one suspect at the scene, taking the death toll to six, and detained at least one other. 
The tragedy occured two weeks after a horrific terror attack at a train station in Kunming, in which 29 people were stabbed to death and over 140 were injured. Perhaps to quell already-jittery fears over public safety, Changsha police were swift to release a statement saying that today’s dispute, which occurred at the city’s Shahuqiao market, was between vendors, rather than anything more sinister. An official in Changsha, which is the capital of Hunan province, told the AFP newswire: “I can assure you it is not a terror attack.”
Early eyewitness reports in the state media gave varying accounts of what happened at the scene. A local radio station described how a fight broke out between a bakery employee and customers. The Oriental Morning Post, a Shanghai-based state-run newspaper, reported that one worker attacked another with a kitchen knife, before turning on passers-by. Gruesome photos of bloodied victims lying prostrate in the street at first circulated unfettered on Chinese social media. Internet censors have since been deleting news reports and microblog posts that diverge from the official line.
In one photo uploaded onto Sina Weibo, a microblogging site, a man with a moustache wearing a knitted vest is being loaded into a police vehicle in handcuffs. The man’s appearance soon led online commentators to question whether ethnic Uighurs, who are largely Muslim, carried out the attacks. Xinhua, a state-run newswire, has released the names of two of the vendors involved in the dispute, which appear to be Uighur in origin. The Oriental Morning Post reported the violence erupted from a bakery making Xinjiang-style flatbreads, also popular with Uighurs.
Mass-scale acts of terror, such as was seen in Kunming, are rare in China. But long-simmering social tension between ethnic minority Uighurs and Han Chinese has flared in the wake of that attack. Authorities blamed “China’s September 11th” on extremists from Xinjiang, the far-western Uighur province. The province is especially restive, since many Uighurs believe their homeland has been co-opted by Beijing authorities and Han Chinese. No group has claimed responsibility for the Kunming attacks or another incident, last October, in which a car ploughed into crowds in Tiananmen square in Beijing, killing five. But authorities also blamed both attacks on Xinjiang terrorists.
This latest violence, though seemingly not terrorism, will do little to mollify strained relations between the ethnic groups. Alongside social media commentary urging people to be tolerant and not discriminate, are vitriolic microblog posts warning people to keep their distance from “cold-blooded” Uighurs. It must be hoped that recriminiation will not be forthcoming.

Western music in China:
 It's only rock 'n roll (but they like it)
Insights into China's politics, business, society and culture. An allusion to Confucius, the name means “things gathered up” or “literary fragments”
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more