2014-01~03
http://www.nydailynews.com/news/world/disappearance-malaysia-airlines-flight-370-sparks-conspiracy-theories-article-1.1717801

Missing Malaysia Airlines plane sparks conspiracy theories - NY Daily News

 It may take years before investigators determine exactly what happened to Malaysia Airline Flight MH370.

 The facts behind the plane’s mysterious disappearance make it ripe for theories that range from the plausible, like pilot error, to the outright bizarre, like alien abduction.

 The Boeing 777 en route to Beijing vanished early Saturday morning, along with its 239 passengers and crew. Investigators say the flight veered off course for more than an hour with all of its tracking systems turned off. Dozens of ships and aircraft from nine nations have launched a search and rescue mission, but there’s no trace of the plane — no debris, no pinging from the emergency locator and no guarantees that it will ever be found.

 Interpol Secretary General Ronald Noble has tamped down on suggestions that the plane's disappearance is linked to terrorism. But some theorists are suggesting that terrorists have hijacked the plane and parked it in an undisclosed location, completely intact but with radio devices turned off. Distraught family members on the ground have reportedly tried calling their loved ones. They said the cellphones connected and rang, but that no one was picking up.

 But where would you hide a 100-ton jet? Some theorists are pointing fingers at Pyongyang. Reddit user Nickryane claims the plane had enough fuel to easily land in North Korea and still be within cellphone range. The authoritarian country hijacked a jet in 1969, Vocative reports, so they've played this game before.

 Another theory is pilot suicide. There’s no evidence that captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah or co-pilot Fariq Abdul Hamid had suicidal intentions. But it’s happened before — in October 1999, EgyptAir Flight 990 plunged straight into the Atlantic ocean, killing 200 people. The NTSB concluded that one of the pilots, Gameel al-Batouti, had intentionally brought the plane down. According to CNN, al-Batouti didn't seem surprised in cockpit recordings when the jet started making a downward descent. The pilot also constantly used the phrase, "I rely on God."

 There were about 145 Chinese nationals on flight MH 370, so users on the Chinese social media platform TenCent are focusing on the China connection. Some are blaming Uighur separatists. The Uighers are a group of ethnic Muslims from Xingjiang, the westernmost region of China. Beijing has blamed Uighur separatists for a brutal knife attack in Kunming that left 33 dead and more than 100 wounded.

 And then there are the folk who think nothing on this planet could have been responsible for something so daring and inexplicable. There were no mayday calls or signs of plane malfunction before the jet went off the radar. A number of people on social media are claiming that such a sudden disapparance could be a sign that extraterrestial life exists.

 Is it possible an alien ship snatched the Malaysian Airlines flight out of the sky? #wherediditgo

 This malaysian airline flight has the potential to be either the greatest heist since DB Cooper, or alien abduction. I vote aliens

 One blogger speculated about everything from secret military weapons tests to "Bermuda Triangle-like ripples in the fabric of spacetime."

 "If we never find the debris," he wrote on Natural News, "it means some entirely new, mysterious and powerful force is at work on our planet which can pluck airplanes out of the sky without leaving behind even a shred of evidence."
Test your skills with popular games including Jumble Word Web, daily Sudoku, and crosswords!
Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.