2014-01~03
http://www.dw.de/many-feared-dead-after-bomb-blasts-rock-northern-nigeria/a-17467583?maca=en-rss-en-all-1573-rdf

Many feared dead after bomb blasts rock northern Nigeria | News | DW.COM | 02.03.2014

Deadly bomb blasts have rocked a marketplace in the capital of Nigeria's northern Borno state. Nigeria is battling a bloody Islamic insurgency, which has escalated over the past month.


Two bombs exploded at a crowded marketplace in the northern Nigerian city of Maiduguri on Saturday, with witnesses telling the Reuters news agency that at least 10 people were killed.

The second bomb blast reportedly targeted people trying to help the victims of the first explosion. Nobody has claimed responsibility for the attack, the first in months to target Maiduguri, the birthplace of the Islamist militant group Boko Haram.

"Many men, women and children died," local resident Ismaila Abdulraman told Reuters by telephone. "The fire service are on the ground now and they are bringing corpses of people and trying to put out the fire at the scene."

Boko Haram has launched a spree of bloody attacks over the past few weeks, killing more than 300 people during February alone. The Islamist militant group wants to impose Shariah law in Nigeria.

Last May, Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan launched an aggressive military campaign against Boko Haram, placing three northeastern states under emergency rule. The military has launched airstrikes against suspected militant hideouts. One of those airstrikes allegedly killed 20 civilians in the village of Daglun last Friday.
The US has designated two Nigerian militant groups, including Boko Haram, as terrorist organizations. The groups are believed to be responsible for killing thousands of people in north and central regions of the country. (13.11.2013)
The governor of Borno state, Kashim Shettima, has said that the government is losing the war against Boko Haram. The Islamist militant group is "better armed and better motivated," Shettima said.

"Given the present state affairs, it is absolutely impossible for us to defeat Boko Haram," the governor continued.

According to the UN, nearly 300,000 people have fled their homes in northeast Nigeria since the military offensive began last May.

Nigeria's 170 million people are 40 percent Christian and 50 percent Muslim. The rest of the population practices indigenous beliefs.

Christians predominantly live in the south, while Muslims mostly live in the north.
A reported 22 have been confirmed dead and 42 injured after two women disguised as men blew themselves up at morning prayers in Nigeria. The attack is thought to be the work of Boko Haram insurgents.
450 Nigerian children died of malnutrition in 2015, all in the state of Borno, the epicenter of the terror group Boko Haram. DW correspondents Adrian Kriesch and Uwaisu Idriss have travelled to Maiduguri, to report about the dramatic situation.
In northeastern Nigeria witnesses say they saw Boko Haram militants firebombing huts and heard screams of children burning to death. This was during the weekend attack in the village of Dalori that left at least 85 dead.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
