2014-01~03
http://www.interaksyon.com/article/80186/senators-divided-on-pnoys-refusal-to-apologize-to-hong-kong

Senators divided on PNoy's refusal to apologize to Hong Kong

PH Balikatan spokesman: Anti-aircraft system to be deployed in Palawan
21-Mar-16, 5:45 PM | Jaime Sinapit, InterAksyon.com


Oil firms to hike gasoline prices by P0.10/ltr Tuesday
21-Mar-16, 8:05 PM | Juzel L. Danganan, Philippines News Agency


VIDEO, WHEN LOVE BECOMES HATE | Husband tagged 'brains' in brutal Sta. Rosa slay
21-Mar-16, 1:59 PM | InterAksyon.com | News5


Bisikleta Iglesia encourages bikers to tour Marikina churches on Maundy Thursday
21-Mar-16, 9:58 PM | Clara Masinag, InterAksyon.com


Climate changing at 'unprecedented' rate: UN
21-Mar-16, 9:36 PM | Agence France-Presse


HOLY WEEK TRAVEL ADVISORY | NLEx, SCTEx now integrated
19-Mar-16, 7:16 PM | InterAksyon.com | Daphne Magturo, BusinessWorld

MANILA, Philippines – Members of the Philippine Senate are divided on the firm refusal of President Benigno Aquino III to apologize to the Hong Kong government over the 2010 Manila hostage crisis that left eight Hong Kong nationals dead.
Senate President Franklin Drilon said there is no need for an apology “since the victims have been compensated” and apologies have been made below the President’s level.
”I don’t really see the need for the apology,” Drilon said in a Senate media interview before Wednesday’s regular session.
Drilon said the Philippines should not apologize “in the same manner China did not apologize for the death of a Filipino tourist.”
Drilon was referring to Dr. Rizalina Camia Bunyi, one of the five tourists who died in terror attacks at Beijing’s Tiananmen Square.
Bunyi’s husband, Nelson, who is also a medical doctor, and two daughters Francisca Ysable and Mikaella – both studying medicine, were among 38 tourists injured when a speeding SUV driven by Uighur Usmen Hasan reportedly crashed into a crowded sidewalk and burst into flames.
Senator Jinggoy Estrada said President Aquino was right for not issuing apology, saying it was the fault of the former officials of the City of Manila.
”I think it is not necessary for the President to apologize to the Hong Kong authorities. I think it was the former officials of the City of Manila who committed mistakes. They messed up the whole thing,” Estrada said.
Estrada said his father, former President and now Manila Mayor Joseph Ejercito Estrada, “is willing to apologize anytime.”
Estrada explained the incident was not the act of the state but by a lone deranged person, referring to former policeman Rolando Mendoza “who was acting by himself.”
Senator Bam Aquino agreed with Estrada that it was individual and not the whole country who should issue an apology.
”If the government perpetrated that, then that is a different matter all together. But in this case, it was a lone individual,” Sen. Aquino said.
On the other hand, Sen. Ferdinand ‘Bongbong’ Marcos Jr. found it difficult to understand why the President should not issue the apology to the Hong Kong government.
”It (apology) is a simple thing to do. It would not cost government anything. It would certainly improve all the conditions of the Filipinos living in Hong Kong,” Marcos, son of the late former President Ferdinand Marcos, said.
Senator Vicente Sotto III said the authorities failed to handle properly the hostage crisis, adding “there is nothing wrong to apologize for the death of many Hong Kong citizens.”
Neophyte senator Nancy Binay expressed fear that Hong Kong authorities might extend the requirement of visa even to the overseas Filipino workers (OFWs).
”There should be closure on this issue. What I’ve heard was that the sanctions will also affect the OFWs because it seems they stop hiring and it would be difficult for OFWs working in Hong Kong,” Binay said.
The Hong Kong government recently required Filipino officials to get visas before entering Hong Kong.
Binay recently appealed to Hong Kong authorities to spare the OFWs from the sanctions.