2014-01~03
http://www.malaysiasun.com/index.php/sid/220413001/scat/48cba686fe041718/ht/Indian-Ocean-to-be-scoured-for-missing-Malaysian-airliner

Indian Ocean to be scoured for missing Malaysian airliner - Malaysia Sun
• New information, U.S. officials told CNN, indicates the missing airplane could have flown for several hours beyond the last radar reading.
• The official said multiple bursts of data were received indicating the plane was flying over the Indian Ocean.
• White House spokesman Jay Carney said Thursday that many countries are partnering in the search and "following leads where we find them."
KUALA LUMPUR - The search for the missing Malaysia Airlines jet is to widen into the Indian Ocean with reported data from the airliner indicating it might have flown into the vast ocean even as authorities are paying special attention to the background of a Chinese Uighur passenger.
New information, U.S. officials told CNN, indicates the missing airplane could have flown for several hours beyond the last radar reading.
Malaysian authorities believe they have several "pings" of engine data from the airliner's service data system, known as ACARS, transmitted to satellites in the four to five hours after the last transponder signal, suggesting the plane could have flown into the Indian Ocean, a senior U.S. official told CNN.
That information combined with known radar data and knowledge of fuel range leads officials to believe the plane may have made it to the Indian Ocean.
"It appears the plane was flying most of that time," the senior U.S. official told CNN. The "indication" that the plane kept flying is not based on U.S. government information but rather based on radar readings and plane data.
There is reason to believe the plane flew for four hours, the officials said, but there is no specific indication where the plane actually is.
This new information has now led to a decision to move the USS Kidd into the Indian Ocean in the coming hours to begin searching that area, the official said.
The official said multiple bursts of data were received indicating the plane was flying over the Indian Ocean.
But there's another confusing twist. An emergency beacon that would have sent data if the plane was about to impact the ocean apparently did not go off, the official said, suggesting perhaps the plane was still likely in some stable flight pattern when it disappeared, said CNN.
White House spokesman Jay Carney said Thursday that many countries are partnering in the search and "following leads where we find them."
Carney told reporters that "some new information that's not necessarily conclusive" could lead to "reallocating some assets" toward the Indian Ocean.
"We are looking at information, pursuing possible leads, working within the investigation being led by the Malaysian government, and it is my understanding that one possible piece of information or collection of pieces of information has led to the possibility that a new search area may be opened," Carney said.
According to a Wall Street Journal report the plane's engines have an on-board monitoring system supplied by their manufacturer, Rolls-Royce PLC. The system "periodically sends bursts of data about engine health, operations and aircraft movements to facilities on the ground," the newspaper said.
Malaysia Airlines sends its engine data live to Rolls-Royce for analysis, the report said, and that data is now being analyzed to figure out the flight path of the missing plane after contact was lost with its transponder, a radio transmitter in the cockpit that communicates with ground radar.
Malaysia Airlines Chief Executive Ahmad Jauhari Yahya said that Rolls-Royce and Boeing have reported that they didn't receive transmissions of any kind after 1:07 a.m. Saturday. Air traffic controllers lost contact with the plane shortly afterward, around 1:30 a.m.
Erin Atan, a spokeswoman for Rolls-Royce in Asia, declined to comment on the matter, telling CNN it was "an official air accident investigation.
Meanwhile, Vietnamese and Chinese search crews found nothing where Chinese satellite photographs released Wednesday showed large floating objects in the South China Sea.
The spot is between Malaysia and Vietnam and not far from the plane's expected flight path.
In another major development, police investigating the backgrounds of the 239 people aboard the missing Malaysia Airlines flight are paying "special attention" to a 35 year-old Chinese Uighur man who had undertaken flight simulation training.
Leading Malay language newspaper, Harian Metro, quoted an unnamed source as saying the Uighur man is not a suspect over the plane's disappearance but that investigators were delving into his background.
According to the source the man has a PhD from a university in Britain was recently working as a lecturer at a university in Turkey.
The source said he undertook flight simulation training in Sweden around 2006.
Police are checking the psychological and personal backgrounds of the 227 passengers and 12 crew, including chief pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah, whose house has been raided by police, the Sydney Morning Herald reported.
Police questioned his family about his behaviour over the days before the plane's disappearance, the same as they plan to do for all who were on board.
Police say they are investigating the possibilities of hijacking or sabotage.
Uighurs Muslims, an ethnic minority group from the north-western Chinese province of Xinjiang, have been battling for independence since they were brought under Chinese control in 1949. They claim they are oppressed by China's authoritarian government and face religious restrictions and widespread discrimination.
Earlier this month the Uighurs, who make up 45 percent of the population of Xinjiang, were blamed for a violent attack at a Chinese train station.
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, speaking at his annual press conference, reiterated that families and 1friends of more than 150 Chinese passengers on board the missing jet were "burning with anxiety".
He said the Chinese government had asked Malaysian authorities to co-ordinate their activities and establish the cause of the disappearance. "As long as there is a glimmer of hope, we will not stop searching," he said.
The aircraft, with 239 people on board, disappeared from civilian radar at 1.30am Saturday as it crossed the Gulf of Thailand from Malaysia
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Hockey India (HI) on Monday picked a young squad for the 25th Sultan Azlan Shah Cup to be held in Malaysia from April 6-16, with established players like Akashdeep Singh, P.R. Sreejesh, Dharamvir Singh, V.R. Raghunath and Birendra Lakra missing, in a bid to try out "different permutations and combinations", according to its president, Narinder Batra.
"This squad is nothing about seniors or juniors. We are trying out different combinations and permuations in the bid to prepare before Olympics. It is not about those players being rested or injured," Batra told IANS.
However, defender Harmanpreet Singh, midfielder S.K. Uthappa and strikers Nikkin Thimmiah and Mandeep Singh have made a return to the 18-member national squad.
Karnataka player Nikkin was out of the side due to a hand injury. He even missed the major part of Dabang Mumbai's campaign in the Hockey India League (HIL) which concluded last month.
Uthappa played a key role in Kalinga Lancers's runners-up finish in the HIL and he has been rewarded for his hard work.
Young goalkeeper Akash Anil Chitke has taken Sreejesh's spot as a new entrant, while midfielder Harjeet Singh, captain of the national Under-21 side, has also got his maiden national call-up, alongwith Surender Singh.
Chitke was declared as the 'Promising Player of the Tournament' at the 5th senior National Championship in 2015.
Centre-half Sardar Singh will captain the side, while senior forward S.V. Sunil is the vice-captain. The squad includes five defenders in the form of Rupinder Pal Singh, Jasjit Singh Kular, Kothajit Singh, Surender Singh and Harmanpreet Singh.
The midfield will be under the leadership of Sardar and he will be assisted by Danish Mujtaba, Chinglensana Singh, Manpreet Singh, S.K. Uthappa and Harjeet Singh.
Sunil, Talwinder Singh, Mandeep Singh, Ramandeep Singh, Nikkin will form India's attack line.
Besides India, defending champions New Zealand, 2012 Olympic bronze medallists Australia, Pakistan, Japan, Canada and hosts Malaysia will also be taking part in the annual tournament.
With the 2016 Rio Olympics coming up a few months down the line, the Sultan Azlan Shah Cup will serve has as a barometre to measure the teams' preparations.
"India has a good record in the Sultan Azlan Shah Cup and we would like to keep it that way," Sardar said.
"Being an Olympic year, this tournament assumes special importance as it will give us an idea where we stand. Playing against good teams like Australia, New Zealand and Pakistan and not to forget hosts Malaysia will give the team critical competition exposure.
"It will be a good opportunity trying out new things and new combinations in the tournament to see if they work," he added.
In preparation for the tournament, the Indian men's team is currently undergoing a training camp that started on March 7 at the SAI Centre in Bengaluru.
"The boys have been working hard as a unified unit and are geared up for the tournament ahead. Azlan Shah will be good testing ground for us right before the Rio Olympics and will be very crucial for the team. We are focused on improving the game technically and implement the right strategies," chief coach Roelant Oltmans said.
Indian have enjoyed a good run in the Sultan Azlan Shah Cup since it started as a biennial tournament in 1983 before becoming an annual affair since 1994.
India have won the prestigious tournament five times in 1985, 1991, 1995, 2009 and 2010, while earning the bronze on six occasions and finished runners-up once in 2008.
However, it won't be easy to counter the likes of Australia, New Zealand, Pakistan and Malaysia. Hosts Malaysia will be eager to make an impact under their new coach Stephen van Huizen.
The round-robin format of the tournament will help the Indian team to get decent amount of competition exposure under its belt. It will also give them an opportunity to gauge the fitness level of the players, since the conditions in Ipoh around this time of the year will be extremely hot and humid. The Indian team has shown considerable improvement in the fitness levels in the past couple of years.
Defenders: Rupinder Pal Singh, Jasjit Singh Kular, Kothajit Singh, Surender Singh, Harmanpreet Singh.
Midfielders: Danish Mujtaba, Chinglensana Singh, Manpreet Singh, Sardar Singh (Captain), S.K. Uthappa, Harjeet Singh.
Forwards: Talwinder Singh, Mandeep Singh, S.V. Sunil (Vice-Captain), Ramandeep Singh, Nikkin Thimmaiah.

Sydney - Two pieces of debris found in Mozambique have arrived in Australia for experts ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Hockey India (HI) on Monday picked a young squad for ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 21 (IANS) Malaysia's education ministry on Monday ordered all schools in Kedah ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 20 (IANS) Malaysian officials said on Sunday that two pieces of suspected ...
Moscow - Winds were gusting before dawn Saturday over the airport in the southern Russian ...
Get the latest Malaysia Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Malaysia Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved