2014-01~03
http://tribune.com.pk/story/682878/uighur-leader-hiding-in-pakistan-vows-revenge-on-china/&c=Mne5b4Kh8QnQlU_TpkvbRszyrHysAvBmlKri3dhKkHA&mkt=en-us/

Uighur leader hiding in Pakistan vows revenge on China - The Express Tribune

 China has stepped up security in Xinjiang after a vehicle ploughed into tourists on the edge of Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October, killing the three people in the car and two bystanders. PHOTO: AFP
DERA ISMAIL KHAN / ISLAMABAD: Entrenched in secret mountain bases on the border with Afghanistan, Uighur fighters in Pakistan are gearing up for retribution against China to avenge the deaths of comrades in Beijing’s crackdown on a separatist movement, their leader told Reuters.
China, Pakistan’s only major ally in the region, has long urged Islamabad to weed out what it says are militants from its western region of Xinjiang, who are holed up in a lawless tribal belt, home to a lethal mix of militant groups, including the Taliban and al Qaeda.
A mass stabbing at a train station in the Chinese city of Kunming two weeks ago, in which at least 29 people were killed, has put a new spotlight on the largely Muslim Uighur ethnic minority from Xinjiang, where Beijing says armed groups seek to establish an independent state called East Turkestan.
Beijing has termed the Kunming bloodshed a “terrorist attack” carried out by militants, and says separatists operate training camps across the rugged border which abuts Pakistan and Afghanistan.
In a rare but brief interview, Abdullah Mansour, leader of the rebel Turkestan Islamic Party, said it was his holy duty to fight the Chinese.
“The fight against China is our Islamic responsibility and we have to fulfil it,” he said from an undisclosed location.
“China is not only our enemy, but it is the enemy of all Muslims … We have plans for many attacks in China,” he said, speaking in the Uighur language through an interpreter.
“We have a message to China that East Turkestan people and other Muslims have woken up. They cannot suppress us and Islam any more. Muslims will take revenge.”
Mansour spoke on a crackly line using a mobile phone with an Afghan SIM card in a brief statement which gave Reuters no chance to ask about the Kunming attack.
The separatists hide mainly in the troubled North Waziristan region, where they are reportedly treated by their Pakistani Taliban hosts as guests of honour, militant and Pakistani intelligence sources say.
The Turkestan Islamic Party, which China equates with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), keeps a low profile in Pakistan. The group was banned by the Pakistani government last year.
Unlike the Taliban, it almost never posts videos promoting its activities or ideology. Its exact size is unknown and some experts dispute its ability to orchestrate attacks in China, or that is exists at all as a cohesive group.
Pakistani intelligence sources say estimate a force of about 400 fighters who are clustered around the remote Mir Ali area, sharing bases with other foreign insurgents, particularly Uzbeks, who speak a similar language.
In Afghanistan, two security reports sent to expatriates working there this year warned of attacks on a Chinese hotel, Chinese companies and other targets in Kabul. There have been no attacks so far.
According to Afghan Taliban sources, there are reports of about 250 Uighur militants in Afghanistan’s Nuristan and Kunar provinces.
“They live here with us but are always concerned about their people and mission in China. They are nice people, good Muslims and the best fighters,” a senior Taliban commander said.
He added that Uighur militants were not fond of guns, and resorted mostly to knives and daggers.
China has stepped up security in Xinjiang after a vehicle ploughed into tourists on the edge of Beijing’s Tiananmen Square in October, killing the three people in the car and two bystanders. China labelled it a suicide attack by militants from the region.
Mansour released a Uighur-language video weeks after the Tiananmen incident, calling it a “jihadi operation” by its holy warriors.
For Pakistan, China is a valued friend in a region it views as potentially hostile. It is keen to demonstrate a commitment to weeding out what Beijing calls separatists, but its security forces are already stretched fighting militants.
Rehman Malik, Pakistan’s former interior minister, said that about 20 Uighur militants were captured and handed over to China on his watch in 2008-2013. Last year, the government banned three groups linked to militant activity in China.
The outfits banned include the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and Islamic Jihad Union (IJU).
“Pakistan and China are great friends. There are no secrets between us. When I took over as interior minister, I took on this subject in close association with my partners in China,” he said. “The present government is also aware of the whole thing.”
Many Uighurs in the energy-rich Xinjiang region which borders ex-Soviet Central Asia, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India, accuse Han Chinese of stifling their culture and religion. More than 100 people there have been killed in unrest in the past year, according to Chinese state media reports.
But the Chinese government has provided little evidence that the Kunming killings or any other incidents that Beijing has labelled terrorist attacks have been linked to outside forces.
Some experts have suggested that the low-tech nature of the weapons the assailants used in Kunming and the location of the attack point to a lack of external backing and weakly organised revenge killings as opposed to coordinated international terrorism.
The Kunming attack has put China on edge and prompted concerns over rising discrimination against Uighurs across the country.
Exiled Uighur groups have repeatedly called for transparent investigations into such incidents and say they should not be used as excuses for further repressive policies on Uighur communities.
Hundreds of Uighurs migrated to the lawless areas of Pakistan about five years ago after they were squeezed out of their homeland by a Chinese crackdown, Pakistani security sources say. Their numbers are believed to be much smaller now.
“The Chinese militants in the tribal areas are mostly clerics and fighters. They have their families here and are mostly focused on Afghanistan,” said one Pakistani Taliban commander.
Saifullah Mahsud, head of the Pakistani think tank FATA Research Center, which has extensive sources in Pakistan’s tribal areas, agreed their power and capacity to carry out major attacks are exaggerated by China.
“It’s survival, basically. They can’t go back,” he said. “This is the only place where they are welcome.”
But attempts by Taliban insurgents to carve out new hideouts in northern areas of Pakistan near China’s border have helped create a new corridor for Uighurs leading into their homeland.
“In the last couple of years, Taliban have got nearer and nearer to the Chinese border,” said Mahsud. “There has been a lot of movement there. Perhaps that gives them the logistical support that they require to cross over into China.”
China faces violent separatist movement in area motivated by religious extremism.
Police shot dead 4 of 10 attackers who officials said were part of the attack orchestrated by Xinjiang separatists.
Hallelujah. PTI and PMLN will make sure that Pakistan gets completely isolated in the world.
Something suddenly gives me hope that a lot of India’s problems are going to go away quickly and efficiently.
China is our good friend and Uighars are our muslim brothers. I hope that Pakistan is allowed to play a positive role in making Chinese Govt provide Uighars with human rights that other citizens of China (Han and Hui) enjoy, while at the same time can help Uighar population of China feel more secure in China, when people feel part of the society it is less likely they will ask for independence. Recommend
Pakistan’s foreign policy is a case study for “disaster”. Indian army has got nothing to do major besides Maoists. My colonel brother is hitting mosquitoes with electronic tennis in rural Bengal. Very boring. Rab rakhaRecommend
Master: I see that you have a lice problem..it’s disgusting and spreading on to my hair
Slave: Yes master, but I’ll take care of it. I’ll shave off my head…my body..everywhere..
Master: Not enough..You need to cut off its habitat..
Slave: But, but, Master…that’s my ‘head’.
Master: Exactly!!!Recommend
I would not in the least be surprised if this is true……..and even less surprised if our government are clueless on this,Recommend
Flush the bugger out. We don’t want him in our territory.
@Prabhjyot Singh Madan:
If Maoist problem is nothing major, just yesterday they killed 20 or so troops, then I guess your definition of a raging insurgency must be different from that of the World’s.
Kashmir is nowhere close to being solved. At one point in time, Kashmiri chickens are going to come home to roost. So don’t let your brother get too comfy killing machars (perhaps that is all he is good for).
Hmmm, Uighur leader hiding “somewhere in Pakistan” has a familiar ring to it!
Time to check out any new security compounds built in Abbottabad near PMA???
Ali, great comment. I also believe that peace between China and Uighurs should be a priority for Pakistan, and that means being more proactive in Uighur areas in both Pakistan and China. Pakistan hosts a large Uighur diaspora, most of whom are peaceful and lovely people who attend religious education in our cities and live simple lives. Pakistan has no problems with Uighurs who live peacefully in Pakistan, but we should never allow any activity against China.
Pakistanis are always preparing for afterlife. What about THIS life?
We request our Chinese friends to accept our Uighur brothers with love and humility and allow freedom to practise religion. Only then the problem can be solved.
“We request our Chinese friends to accept our Uighur brothers with love and humility and allow freedom to practise religion. Only then the problem can be solved.”
and in other news, a hindu temple got burned by an angry mob in larkana
All people commenting here does not know the plight of Uighur in Xinjiang. The Chinese Agents has penetrated the mosques , force them to break fast during Ramadan and dissolving and selling there property at will.
They do not have weapon but they are so frustrated to use Knifes in there defense. And Pakistan we do not dare to say a right word because China is no America and they do not tolerate any thing that is against them.
@javed: Pakistan is housing many Uighurs with love and brotherly compassion who are studying in Islamic universities and schools here. Fight between Uighur and Chinese only helps the enemies of Pakistan, namely India. Yes, China should treat Uighur people differently than they have been, but why do you expect Pakistan to bear that burden alone? Pakistan is the friend of China, Uighurs and other Muslim people in China such as Hui, Gansu Muslims. Love is the only solution to this issue.
@Bakhtiyar Ghazi Khan
I hope Chinese are listening but you can understand the desperation of a person if he goes on rampage without anything but a knife.
China is occupying East Turkistan (Xinjiang) that is the land of the Muslim Uighurs. The Uighur Muslims are rightfully fighting for this occupation brutal suppression to end. They should have the right to self-determination. All Islamic countries should support the oppressed Uighurs in their quest for freedom.
“Yes, China should treat Uighur people differently than they have been, but why do you expect Pakistan to bear that burden alone?”
Because Pakistan is an Islamic country that is sworn to defend Islam, and the rights of the Muslim Ummah, against occupation of Muslim lands by the infidel.
Pakistan should help muslims wherever they’re but NOT by siding with anything negative. Pakistan-China friendship Zindabad

 © 2016 The Express Tribune. 
 Technical feedback? [email protected]


 This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, redistributed or derived from.
 Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2016 The Express Tribune.
Technical feedback? [email protected]
