2014-01~03
http://www.finfacts.ie/irishfinancenews/article_1027311.shtml

Monday Newspaper Review - Irish Business News and International Stories - - March 03, 2014
See Search Box 
lower down this column for searches of Finfacts news pages. Where there may be 
the odd special character missing from an older page, it's a problem that 
developed when Interactive Tools upgraded to a new content management system.

Finfacts is Ireland's leading business information site and 
you are in its business news section.



FINANCE Minister Michael Noonan has become the latest government figure to issue a staunch defence of Health Minister James Reilly's plans for universal health insurance.








Mr Noonan said the new system will eliminate waiting lists and give patients "the kind of healthcare that is common across Europe".

 
 Dr Reilly will shortly publish a government White Paper outlining the proposals, which will be followed by a lengthy public consultation period.

 
 It was revealed last week that the Department of Finance and Public Expenditure have raised concerns about the potential costings of the plan.

 
 However, Department of Health sources have hit back at the criticism and rejected claims that the plan poses a risk to the financial stability of the State.








Mr Noonan yesterday said the plan represents a "radical proposal of a generation".
GPs are expected to get a substantial boost to their personal pensions if they sign up to providing free care to children under six in return for an annual state fee later this year.

 
 Figures obtained by the Irish Independent reveal the Health Service Executive (HSE) paid out a staggering €24.6m last year into a private pension scheme for GPs who treat medical card holders.

 
 The pension deal, which involves substantial payments from the taxpayer, is unique because GPs are not direct employees of the State but are self-employed contractors who can opt in or out of treating medical card holders.

 
 The GPs are expected to get around the same annual capitation fees from the State for providing free care to 240,000 children under six as they receive for a child of similar age covered by a medical card.

 
 This is also expected to be pensionable.
STAFF at Ulster Bank will hold a series of 15 meetings across the country over fears of further job cuts and branch closures at the bank.

 
 The bank has left 5,800 staff and hundreds of thousands of customers having to "read between the lines" of the announcements about its future strategy – made last Thursday – according to the Irish Bank Officials Association (IBOA).

 
 That is because the heavily flagged announcement failed to spell out the impact on job numbers and branch closures.

 
 Ulster Bank owner Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) said on Thursday that it was committed to the Irish market but also planned to have a smaller bank here.
A four-month old Irish online messaging startup is close to finalising around $20m (€14.5m) in funding -- one of the highest amounts in the world this year -- just a week after Facebook’s €14bn acquisition of messaging firm WhatsApp.

 
 The meteoric rise of Kwikdesk, which is co-founded by Kevin Abosch, Connor Murphy and David Coallier, is set to result in one of the biggest global funding deals for a tech startup so far this year.

 
 Kwikdesk’s messaging platform service has seen strong interest from telecoms companies for the technology behind its service.

 
 Kwikdesk’s ‘Series A’ funding round comes as telecoms operators scramble to incorporate online messaging systems, which are sinking their network-based SMS text and phone call revenues.
John McManus says that conflicts of interest are a recurring theme in Irish business and, it must be said, of this column.

 
 They are, of course, inevitable in a small country with a relatively small pool of professional advisory firms capable of providing services at the level expected by large business. What seems less inevitable is that they cannot be managed better.
The events of the last few years are littered with examples of big firms apparently having the best of both worlds.
They advised – and in some cases continue to advise – the various banks and property developers who created much of the mess while at the same time picking up work with various agencies charged with sorting out the mess. This issue has bubbled away in the background, occasionally boiling over when details of the fees paid to the various firms by the likes of Nama are put in the public domain.
When Brian Acton and Jan Koum incorporated WhatsApp in 2009, they probably didn’t give much thought to the future sale prospects of their company.
But sell the duo did, garnering a staggering $19 billion in cash and stock for a venture they founded just five years ago.
The WhatsApp deal has led many starry-eyed tech entrepreneurs in recent weeks to dream of billion dollar deals for their companies.
It’s no secret that for many entrepreneurs, exit is the end goal, and selling the business is the most common exit strategy.
So how can you prepare your start-up for a merger or acquisition and make it more attractive to potential bidders?
Bank of Ireland this morning reported a “significant” improvement in its full-year results for 2013, with pre-tax losses narrowing from €1.5 billion in 2012 to €569 million in 2013, ahead of estimates, as the group’s income rises and impairment charges drop to €1.665 billion.
Group chief executive Richie Boucher said that the bank made “substantial” progress in 2013.
“Our underlying financial performance improved by almost € 1 billion and we achieved our 2 per cent net interest margin target. Taxpayers’ support for and investment in Bank of Ireland has been rewarded and repaid. We are profitable and generating capital in 2014,” he said.
People are becoming increasingly optimistic about the economy, but many are still worried about paying electricity and gas bills, according to new research by Bord Bia.
This time last year, 16 per cent of people surveyed by the State food agency thought the Irish economy was going fairly or very well. When the same question was asked in January, the figure had jumped to 44 per cent.
Similarly, last year 27 per cent said the economy was going very badly but in January this had fallen to 11 per cent.
The research is part of Bord Bia’s ongoing Feeling the Pinch study, which began in 2008 and involves more than 1,000 consumers as well as interviews with cultural experts and academics.
Property consultant CBRE predicts that recovery in commercial property sales will spread from Dublin to the rest of the country this year.

 
 In their first report of 2014, looking at data from January and February, CBRE said there is evidence that a number of investors are beginning to take interest in assets outside of the core Dublin market. 

 
 Executive director and head of research at CBRE Ireland Marie Hunt said January and February were the busiest in years as demand continues to grow. 

 
 “Demand in the investment sector continues at pace... A number of investors appear to be getting more confident about opportunities outside of the core Dublin market on the basis that the clear recovery experienced in the prime market is now starting to filter out somewhat.
The  Guardian reports that the US conceded on Sunday that Moscow had “complete operational control of the Crimean peninsula” and announced that the secretary of state, John Kerry, will fly to Kiev in an attempt to halt a further Russian advance into Ukraine.

 
 Senior US officials dismissed claims that Washington is incapable of exerting influence on the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, but were forced to admit that Crimea had been successfully invaded by 6,000 airborne and ground troops in what could be the start of a wider invasion.

 
 “They are flying in reinforcements and they are settling in,” one senior official said. Another senior official said: “Russian forces now have complete operational control of the Crimean peninsula.”
Reuters reports that the Group of Seven major industrialized nations on Sunday condemned Russia's intrusion into Ukraine and cancelled for now preparations for the G8 summit that includes Russia and had been scheduled to take place in Sochi in June, the White House said.

 
 "We, the leaders of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States and the president of the European Council and president of the European Commission, join together today to condemn the Russian Federation's clear violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine," the G7 said in a statement.
No lessons learned from Yugoslavia conflict: The conflict in Ukraine is starting to resemble the Balkans in view of the tensions on the Crimean peninsula,  teh Czech Lidové noviny ("The People's Paper") says: "Vladimir Putin is not Slobodan Milošević. But the world doesn't seem to be any wiser than it was back then. ... The Ukrainian parliament has revoked the law that guaranteed bilingualism (or the use of Russian) for the minority. So is it any wonder when non-identified armed persons hoist the Russian flag above the Crimean parliament? The West is calling the attack on the parliament in Simferopol dangerous and irresponsible. Yet it kept its fingers crossed for the armed resistance in Maidan. Among the Russians, the feeling is growing that the West doesn't want democracy for all and that it gives the Ukrainians the freedom to do what it won't accept from the Russians. If this conviction takes root in Russian society, Putin will defend the Russians in the 'near abroad' with the same resolve with which Milošević defended the Serbs in the 'Serb areas'."
The South China Morning Post of Hong Kong says a Uygur community in Kunming has been placed under heavy police presence after a gory attack at the city’s main railway station by knife-wielding assailants left 29 civilians dead and more than 140 injured on Saturday night. 
Residents of Dashuying, a low-rent “village-like” community in the eastern part of the city,  said police officers and Swat teams had been stationed in the area since Saturday night’s horrifying attack on passengers at the railway station.
The area was rumoured to be a secondary location of “terrorists” attacks, but this was later denied by police. 
“Police are everywhere on the main road and in back lanes where Uygur people live,” said a receptionist from a hotel in the area during a phone interview with the South China Morning Post. “Honestly, that’s the only way I feel safe and dare to come to work today.”
The woman said she was terrified following the attack. “I won’t go out other than to work. I won’t go to crowded places for a long time for sure.”
Euro Topics: Merkel a good adviser for the British: In a speech delivered to the British parliament on Thursday, German Chancellor Angela Merkel exhorted the British to stay in the EU. The blog of the liberal business weekly The Economist sees her address as above all very instructive for the Eurosceptic British: "Ms Merkel's speech should not only serve as a wake-up call alerting Britons to how parochial their policy on Europe (and much else) has become. It should also serve as a guide for how they can reverse their slide into dispensability … Between the lines of the German chancellor's carefully calculated comments was a simple formula for influence: look outwards, not inwards; don't lose sight of the bigger picture; be able to speak a few words in your partners' languages (literally and figuratively); keep your options open; get your priorities right. Britain would do well to heed them."
Copé must get used to independent press: The French magazine Le Point has accused the chairman of the conservative UMP, Jean-François Copé, of cronyism. Copé is said to have made sure the event marketing firm Bygmalion received contracts worth millions of euros. The politician has now in turn accused the magazine of conspiring against him. The magazine's editor in chief Franz-Olivier Giesbert praises the investigative journalists who uncovered the story: "The most recent affair, which Mélanie Delattre and Christophe Labbé brought to light, is a regrettable story dealing with petty crooks. It does no honour to politics, and sheds a harsh light on the methods of a party that apparently does not bother with scruples. But to uncover this scoop there was no need for a conspiracy that spread its tentacles as far as my office. It was enough for our two reporters to go about their job independently, like they've always done. It's time Jean-François Copé got used to an independent press. ... With all due respect, we also cherish the truth, rigour and a morals."