2014-01~03
http://www.timeslive.co.za/thetimes/2014/03/03/terror-as-29-killed-in-knife-frenzy

Terror as 29 killed in knife frenzy - Times LIVE

 The police don't have airtime - so don't expect a fast response when you're in deadly danger.

 President Robert Mugabe, whose red-carpet stumbles are well known, warned his main opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to be careful not to trip on a step at a plush hotel in Harare recently, a newspaper reported on Sunday.

 An Indian entrepreneur has set up what is claimed to be the country's first marriage bureau for homosexuals.

 The SA Communist Party has attacked the Gupta family and accused it of funding factions in the ANC.

 Kaizer Chiefs held Asec Mimosas to a 0-0 draw in the second leg of their Caf Champions League first-round tie at Houphouet Boigny Stadium in Abidjan on Sunday‚ which was not enough to prevent Amakhosi exiting 1-0 on aggregate.

 Joe Pietersen missed a simple penalty after the hooter to leave the Sharks and Bulls tied for a 16-16 draw at Loftus on Friday.

 AB de Villiers announced himself at the World Twenty20 with a swashbuckling 64 and made Afghanistan pay heavily for dropping him twice as South Africa revived their campaign with a 37-run victory at the Wankhede Stadium on Sunday.

 With another $6.3-million up for grabs when the PGA Tour completes its Florida swing, it is an opportune moment to salute the prime architect behind such riches.

 More than two dozen players who feature in evidence collected from gamblers should be investigated for possible links to betting rings, an Italian prosecutor has told the BBC and BuzzFeed News.

 Nico Rosberg capitalised on a slow start off pole by world champion teammate Lewis Hamilton and superior tyre strategy over Ferrari to win the season-opening Australian Grand Prix on Sunday.

 In the build-up to a fight, it's not just Hekkie Budler who makes sacrifices - wife Roxy also has to do her bit.

 Bruce Springsteen has written an apology note for a schoolboy in case he was late to class after attending his concert.

 Bruce Springsteen has written an apology note for a schoolboy in case he was late to class after attending his concert.

 Zebra & Giraffe has announced that they are splitting up after eight years.

 Sunday Times and Delta Airlines are giving away three pairs of plane tickets to any American city.

 Paracetamol, a common over-the-counter pain-reliever, does not work in the treatment of osteoarthritis, a joint disorder afflicting tens of millions of elderly people.

 Erectile dysfunction (ED) is not just for older men. While studies show that even younger men battle the condition, most men may not be ready to talk about it.

 Dr Michael Mol and John Berry's new cookbook is aimed at the everyday family cook who has their eye on healthier meals, but that doesn't mean dessert is off the menu. Try their recipe for chocolate tartlets

 If you sign a contract that includes a clause which is not compliant with the Consumer Protection Act, does that mean that you forfeit that protection?

 Progress in reducing carbon intensity in the travel and tourism industry can be attributed to several actions, according to a new report by the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC).

 Although “no incidents involving defective inflators have been reported” Honda Motor Southern Africa on Thursday “expanded its recall campaign to replace Takata-supplied airbag inflators”.

 Australia's iconic Sydney Opera House and Harbour Bridge went dark on Saturday night, as the Earth Hour campaign to switch off lights to call for action on climate change began rolling out across the planet, organisers said.

 To Professor Mandla Makhanya, Principal of the University of South Africa

 All data is delayed by 15 min. Data supplied by Profile Data 
 Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.

Officials said a group of knife-wielding terrorists from the restive Xinjiang region attacked people at the Kunming railway station in China's southwest on Saturday night. More than 130 people were wounded.
Armed riot police stood guard as people streamed into the station yesterday only hours after the attack, one of the worst of its kind in China in recent memory.
A parking attendant surnamed Chen said he "saw a person with a knife this big", extending his arms wide.
"Then I saw five or six of them. They all had knives and they were stabbing people madly over near the ticket offices."
Police shot four of the attackers dead and captured one, state news agency Xinhua reported. About five others were said to be on the run.
Xinhua quoted the Kunming city government as saying evidence at the crime scene showed that the attack was carried out by Xinjiang separatists.
The attack was made at a sensitive time. The annual meeting of China's rubber-stamp parliament opens in Beijing on Wednesday.
Word of the violence spread quickly Pictures of bodies covered in blood were posted on the Twitter-like microblogging service Sina Weibo.
Such posts were deleted by government censors but state television showed police wrapping a sword-like weapon in an evidence bag.
Shop and restaurant workers said hundreds had fled into their premises.
"Last night everyone ran over into my supermarket. The supermarket was full of people, including two passengers who had been stabbed," Ren Guangqin said.
"I was terrified. How could I not be scared?" said 28-year-old Ren.
Scores of patients from the attack spilled into corridors from overflowing wards at Kunming's No1 People's Hospital . Several patients had head injuries.
"They attacked us like crazy swordsmen, and went for the head and shoulders," 20-year-old student Wu Yuheng said, lying on a hospital bed. One attacker had nicked him on the scalp
China's domestic security chief, Meng Jianzhu, vowed those responsible would be brought to justice.
The attack marked a major intensification if the simmering unrest that has centred on Xinjiang, a heavily Muslim region in China's far west strategically located on the borders of central Asia.