2014-01~03
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/reuters/article-2983959/China-city-boss-warns-against-Islamic-head-coverings-Xinjiang.html

China city boss warns against Islamic head coverings in Xinjiang | Daily Mail Online

Published:
 07:09 EST, 7 March 2015

 | 
Updated:
 07:09 EST, 7 March 2015


BEIJING, March 7 (Reuters) - Veils and head coverings
represent a cultural reverse in western China's Xinjiang region,
said the top Communist Party boss in Kashgar, the city the
government describes as the "frontline" in its battle against
religious extremism.
Kashgar and the surrounding areas of southern Xinjiang has
suffered from some of the worst ethnic tensions in the region
between the largely Muslim Uighur ethnic minority and majority
Han Chinese.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the
government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including controls
on Islam, have provoked unrest.
Hundreds have died in violence in recent years, many in
southern, predominantly Uighur parts of Xinjiang. The government
has also blamed attacks elsewhere in China, including Beijing,
on Islamist militants from Xinjiang, and said separatists there
seek to set up an independent state called East Turkestan.
Some Xinjiang cities have placed restrictions on Islamic
dress, including the capital Urumqi, which banned the wearing of
veils in public late last year.
"We have to take strides forward as a secular, modern
country," Zeng Cun, the party secretary of the old Silk Road
city of Kashgar, said on Saturday.
"But in some places in Kashgar from last year there are face
veils and head coverings. This is equivalent to retreating back
over the modern, secular strides we have taken. This is a
cultural reverse," Zeng said in a rare interview with Reuters on
the sidelines of an annual meeting of China's parliament.
Uighurs have traditionally followed a moderate form of Islam
but many have begun adopting practices more commonly seen in
Saudi Arabia or Afghanistan, such as full-face veils for women,
as China has intensified a security crackdown in recent years.
"Kashgar is Xinjiang's frontline against terrorism," Zeng
said, though he would not give details on the number of people
who have died in or near Kashgar in recent incidents.
China has expressed concern about the rise of the Islamic
State, nervous about the effect it could have on Xinjiang, which
borders Pakistan and Afghanistan. Chinese leaders have warned
that extremists have illegally left the country to fight on
battlefields in Iraq and Syria.
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group