2014-01~03
http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/847782.shtml

Uyghurs' participation needed in fight against terror - Global Times
Uyghur residents play cards outside a Uyghur restaurant in Kunming. Photo: Yang Jingjie/GT
 After the Kunming terrorist attack which resulted in about 170 casualties, the missing of Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, which carried 239 passengers, has gripped the heart of the entire nation once again. But some rumors that both incidents are connected have been seen on Chinese social media, and the Uyghur people have become the target of verbal harassment of some netizens.This gives new ammunition to some so-called activists to defame the Chinese government. Under the pretext of protecting the rights of Uyghur people, they said these voices which blame the entire Uyghur people for the incidents are the result of the extensive propaganda of the Chinese government.The harmony between all ethnic groups is one of the cornerstones of China's ability to maintain its unity. This is why the Chinese government is making every effort to make sure that areas where minorities are concentrated can keep up with other places in terms of economic development, cultural prosperity and social progress. Many great achievements have been made in the previous decades, although there are still some challenges and problems facing this undertaking.Most of these barriers are the legacy of China's long and complicated history. They are also problems common to most multi-ethnic communities. The surge in religious extremism around the world has also contributed to the growing number of terrorist attacks within China's borders.When the public faces cruel and violent acts, it's natural that they need to vent out their anger. The key is that the mainstream media should play a guiding role and help the public realize the vicious intentions of those terrorists. The public's anger toward terrorists should not be turned into their fear of and hostility toward an ethnic group, because that is what terrorists want.Mobs cannot represent all Xinjiang people or the Uyghur ethnic group. Terrorism has caused great harm to the Uyghur community and it is their No.1 enemy. The anti-terror fight in Xinjiang is a long-term process. Without the participation of the Uyghur people, no victory can be claimed.It requires the involvement of the whole community, whether they are Uyghur or not, to increase mutual understanding. Only through the power of mutual understanding can prejudice and extremist ideas be reduced to a minimum.Both the Chinese government and society need to maintain a firm stance to promote mutual understanding, because it is not only rumors from the inside but also groundless provocations from the outside that might jeopardize this process.