2014-01~03
http://www.torontosun.com/2014/03/19/search-for-airplane-takes-bizarre-twist

Search for airplane takes bizarre twist | FATAH | Columnists | Opinion | Toronto

 First posted: 








 
 
 
 
 
 



 



 


 
 
 Wednesday, March 19, 2014 06:15 PM EDT
 
 
 


 
 | Updated: 








 
 
 
 
 
 





 


 
 
 Wednesday, March 19, 2014 06:23 PM EDT
 
 
 


One of the little-mentioned yet conspicuous facts in the ongoing mystery of the missing Malaysian airlplane is the Muslim character of the drama.
The two suspects (later discounted) who had boarded the plane on false passports were Iranian Muslims.
A group that reportedly claimed responsibility for hijacking the aircraft, if that’s what happened, identified themselves as Muslim Uighurs.
The countries where it is speculated the plane may have been heading — Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Afghanistan — are Muslim.
If all that wasn’t enough, as a Muslim, barely a day goes by without my co-religionists being in the news as either perpetrators or victims of violence, at the centre of one crisis after another.
There is bloodshed involving Muslims in Baghdad, slaughters in Syria, massacres in Nigeria and the plight of Crimean Tatars.
We Muslims have also developed a penchant for creating some silly spectacles.
While the rest of the world deployed its best technology, resources and manpower to help locate missing Malaysian Airlines Flight MH370, conspicuous by its absence in that search was much of the Islamic world.
And one example of efforts to determine the plane’s fate is likely to be greeted with laughter in other countries.
Meet Ibrahim Mat Zin, a Malaysian cleric who is also the country’s top ‘witch doctor”.
None other than the Malaysian government reportedly allowed him to help look for the missing plan, in his unique fashion.
Mat Zin is famous in Malaysia, credited with performing miracles with his chants and prayers.
He is a “shaman” also referred to as “Bomoh” or “Raja Bomoh Sedunia Nujum VIP.” Bomoh went to the Kuala Lumpur airport and performed a bizarre prayer Monday to help locate flight MH370.
Chanting “Allah-o-Akbar” while holding two coconuts in his hands, the cleric asked his three disciples to pretend they were paddling on the floor of the airport, while he looked through hollow bamboo binoculars towards the roof of the airport.
As dozens of journalists and camera crews watched in amazement, the witch doctor and his crew paddled in circles and then came out with this profound pronouncement:
“I think the plane is still in the air or has crashed into the sea.” According to Free Malaysia Today, a spokesperson from the Malaysian prime minister’s office had earlier said the government welcomed any help in tracing flight MH370, including from “bomohs”, as long as their methods did not contravene the practices of Islam.
It was a sad spectacle and said a lot about the state of affairs among Muslims, if these medieval practices are still conducted in Malaysia, thought to be among the most progressive of Muslim societies.
One Internet user on Weibo, China’s equivalent of Twitter, delivered the ultimate insult, writing, according to the South China Morning Post that, “China deployed 10 satellites, Malaysia deployed a few witch doctors.”
Back in April, 1970, I remember how human ingenuity, teamwork and technology saved the crew of the badly damaged Apollo 13 spacecraft, and brought the astronauts safely back to earth as the rest of us sat on the edge of our seats.
The crew and passengers of MH370 may not be that lucky, but we know the best minds of the world are at work trying to locate them.
We also know that none of them is a Bomoh or witch doctor. 
By adding a comment on the site, you accept our terms and conditions.

 First posted: 








 
 
 
 
 
 



 



 


 
 
 Wednesday, March 19, 2014 06:15 PM EDT
 
 
 


 
 | Updated: 








 
 
 
 
 
 





 


 
 
 Wednesday, March 19, 2014 06:23 PM EDT
 
 
 


 One of the little-mentioned yet conspicuous facts in the ongoing mystery of the missing Malaysian airlplane is the Muslim character of the drama.
By now, most of us are familiar with the 
sullen-looking face of Ayanle Hassan Ali, 
who, according to Toronto Police Chief 
Mark Saunders, said he was inspired by 
Allah to kill infidels in his name.
What country on earth would sell its advanced weapons to her enemy, and then subsidize that sale by footing part of the bill?

Canoe Sun Media is a member of 
Copyright © 2015 All rights reserved
