2014-01~03
http://www.worldbulletin.net/?aType=haber&ArticleID=126991

China detains prominent Uighur scholar | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
Chinese police have detained the country's most high-profile Uighur academic, an outspoken critic of official policies in the restive far-western region of Xinjiang (East Turkestan), on suspicion of "breaking the law", the government said on Thursday.
Wednesday's detention is the latest indication of the government's increasing hardline stance on Muslims surrounding Xinjiang, where a series of violent events in the past year have killed at least 91 people, rights activists say.
Xinjiang is home to the Muslim Uighur people who speak a Turkic language. Many resent oppressive treatment by the government, though Beijing says "they are granted wide religious, cultural and linguistic freedoms."
Police in Beijing seized Ilham Tohti, a prominent Uighur economist who has championed the rights of the Uighur community in Xinjiang, at his home and his whereabouts were unknown, his wife and close friend told Reuters.
Tohti has challenged the government's version of several incidents involving Uighurs, including what Beijing says is its "first major suicide attack" involving two men from Xinjiang in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, by pointing out inconsistencies in the official accounts, said Nicholas Bequelin, a senior researcher at Human Rights Watch.
"Ilham is suspected of breaking the law," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a daily news briefing.
"The public security organs have detained him in accordance with the law. The relevant departments will now deal with him in accordance with the law."
Tohti's wife, Guzailai Nu'er, said around 30 police from Xinjiang and Beijing arrived at her apartment to seize Tohti and confiscate his computer and books. They did not give her a reason, she said.
"I trust my husband. He didn't do anything unlawful," she said in a phone interview from her apartment, which was surrounded by police. "All he has done is write detailed articles researching the population in Xinjiang. There's nothing else to it."
Tsering Woeser, a prominent Tibetan writer and friend, said Tohti told her a week ago that he had heard the authorities in Xinjiang had told Beijing police that they wanted to arrest him, but later heard that Beijing didn't approve it.
"At that time, he said that he felt he was in a very dangerous position," Woeser said.
Tohti, an economics professor at Beijing's Minzu University which specialises in ethnic minority studies, told Reuters in November that state security agents had physically threatened him for speaking to foreign reporters.
Bequelin said Tohti's detention reflected a harder stance that Chinese President Xi Jinping has taken on Xinjiang. State media called this a "strategy shift" from development to maintaining social stability.
Bequelin said Tohti could be charged with "incitement for separatism", which carries a maximum sentence of life imprisonment.
"The test of what constitutes incitement of separatism is anything that opposes ethnic harmony," he said.
Tohti, Bequelin said, was "an intellectual trying to get the state to see objectively what the situation is".
"He wants to tell truth to power," he said. "I cannot see anything that he has written or done that can be construed as endangering state security. But the outcome is a foregone conclusion."
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

UN sees need for space travel rules within 5 years

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
