2014-01~03
http://www.independent.ie/world-news/asia-pacific/theories-everyone-from-the-taliban-to-ethnic-uighurs-being-blamed-30100547.html

Theories: Everyone from the Taliban to ethnic Uighurs being blamed - Independent.ie

FLIGHT MH370 has now been missing for more than 10 days and, while facts about what has happened to the Malaysia Airlines flight are in short supply, theories are not.

Could the Boeing 777 have landed somewhere, was it hijacked by remote control or did one of the pilots use it as part of a one-man political protest or suicide?
Each sounds outlandish but the truth – whenever it finally comes to light – could be equally strange. Investigators seem increasingly certain it was flown off course by someone with expert knowledge of Boeing 777s.
Satellite data indicate it could have travelled in two possible directions, either to the south across the Indian Ocean or to the north, perhaps as far as Kazakhstan.
After that comes speculation, not helped by contradictory accounts given by official bodies.
The uncertainty and possible locations to which the plane could have flown provide fertile ground for conspiracy theorists. The theory that the plane could have landed has also given relatives of passengers and crew renewed hope.
Journalists have found there may be as many as 634 runways of sufficient length within a 2,200-nautical-mile radius where MH370 could have landed.
Perhaps inspired by tweets from Rupert Murdoch, the media mogul, several news organisations reported claims that Pakistan might have been the final destination.
After all, Taliban and al-Qa'ida groups control swathes of territory along the country's border with Afghanistan. The September 11 plot to hijack American airliners was hatched in this part of the world. But to get there, Flight MH370 would have had to evade military radar set up to spot an attack from India.
Malaysian media suggest investigators are considering the possibility that the plane might have dropped as low as 5,000 feet to escape detection. That would require some serious flying skills known as "terrain masking", more usually employed by military pilots. At that time in the morning, it might have been invisible to radar, but it surely would have alerted people beneath its flight path.
Another possibility is that the plane hid in the radar shadow of another.
Keith Ledgerwood, who describes himself as an IT professional and pilot, suggests on his blog that MH370's last known manoeuvres indicate that it may have been trying to follow a Singapore Airlines 777 from the Bay of Bengal across India, Pakistan and Afghanistan.
Even if any of this were true, where is the plane now?
North-west Pakistan and south-eastern Afghanistan might be under the control of militants, but hiding a wide-bodied jet from American spy drones buzzing overhead would be all but impossible.
Militants there have denied taking it. Kazakhstan, India and Pakistan have dismissed the idea that it could have flown through their airspace without anyone noticing.
Another possibility might be Kyrgyzstan. It borders western China's troubled Xinjiang province, where an ethnic Uighur population wages a separatist struggle.
A planeload of largely Chinese passengers might have made a tempting target and at least one Uighur group tried to claim responsibility.
All of which leaves us sifting through countless what-ifs and the suspicion that our desperate desire to know how a passenger jet can disappear into thin air has overtaken our demand for evidence. (© Daily Telegraph, London)
Elephants have killed five people in two separate attacks in eastern India, an official said.
Debris found earlier this month off the southeast African coast which some believe could be from a missing Malaysia Airlines flight has arrived in Australia for testing, officials said today, two years after the plane disappeared.
North Korea has fired five short-range projectiles into the sea, Seoul officials said, in a continuation of weapon launches it has carried out in an apparent response to ongoing South Korea-US military drills.

'It had all the attributes of 'a win, is a win, is a win''

Several bomb attacks have thrown the spotlight on security in Turkey. Here...

Whatever the cause, our careers often affect our personal relationships.

The 13 exchange students killed in a bus crash in north-eastern...

Debris found earlier this month off the southeast African coast which some believe could be from a...

An aviation official has said it will be very difficult to extract...

An aviation official has said it will be very difficult to extract...

The only suspected participant in Nov. 13 Paris attacks to be...

The world's largest aircraft has been unveiled for the first time...

Footage released by ESA shows astronauts Tim Peake and Scott Kelly zapping aliens as part of...

President Obama becomes the first US commander in chief to visit Cuba in 88 years.

A heartbreaking video has gone viral on Facebook, of a mother...

At least 14 university students have been killed when the...

A young protester was attacked during Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump's...

Tens of thousands have gathered at a Buddhist temple in...

Four have been killed and 20 injured in a suicide bombing in...

Two Irish people have been injured in this morning's deadly bomb attack in Istanbul which killed...

An airliner flying from Dubai crashes in the southern Russian...