2014-01~03
http://www.worldbulletin.net/news/132265/palestinians-fleeing-syria-arrested-in-thailand

Palestinians fleeing Syria arrested in Thailand | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
A growing number of Palestinians fleeing Syria's civil war have been arrested in Thailand, many caught with false passports at Bangkok international airport while trying to board flights to Europe, according to a report Friday.
Many have been smuggled by human trafficking networks across the Middle East to the southeast Asian country in the hope of then boarding flights to Sweden, according to an investigative article in Friday’s edition of the Bangkok Post.
The number of Palestinians attempting to go to Sweden markedly increased after the Swedish Migration Board announced in September that it would grant permanent residence to refugees from Syria, including Palestinian refugees residing in the war-torn country having been forced out of their homes by Israel.
An investigative article published in Friday’s edition of the Bangkok Post claimed that more than 20 Palestinians had tried to board flights at Bangkok's Suvarnabhumi international airport.
Human Rights Watch Deputy-Director for Asia Philip S. Robertson called on the Thai government to follow "a clear-cut and transparent process in dealing with these people."
“The situation is serious enough in Syria for Thailand to avoid short-cuts and play by the book. That means giving access to the UNHCR, which will allow time to determine if these people are refugees,” he told the Anadolu Agency on Friday. “If it is determined that they are indeed fleeing persecution, some countries will take them, Sweden or another one," he added.
The report followed the case of a woman who traveled from Syria to the United Arab Emirates, and then paid a broker who provided her with a fake passport and was supposed to organize a trip to Sweden via Thailand.
She was arrested last December at Suvarnabhumi airport for using a fake passport, and has since then languished in a Thai prison, where she said the broker's accomplices had taken a further $7,000 dollars from her.
The Post report also focused on a man who had traveled from Syria to the UAE, from where he planned to go to Sweden via Thailand. He paid a broker $47,000 dollars for organizing the trip and provide him with a fake passport, only to be arrested at the Bangkok airport, jailed and then released under bail.
Thailand has become a major route for people from various parts of the world willing to migrate to other countries.
On March 12, 220 Uighurs from China were arrested during a police raid on a jungle camp in the southern Thai province of Songkhla.
According to local media, they wanted to ask for political asylum in Turkey.
“Thailand is a country where people are able to come and mix in society and disappear for a while. The proliferation of undocumented migrants could have connections with the fact that it is easy to enter the country and to get a fake passport here," Robertson said.
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
