2014-01~03
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-01-17/china-arrests-prominent-scholar/5204304

China arrests prominent scholar, government critic Ilham Tohti - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)
A prominent scholar has been arrested in China just weeks after criticising the government in an interview with the ABC.
Ilham Tohti's family say around 30 police came to his house to take away the ethnic Uighur.
China's foreign ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, says he is "suspected of breaking the law" but no further details have been given.
Mr Tohti's supporters fear his detention is part of a wider crackdown on dissent coming out of the far-Western Xinjiang province following an apparent car fire suicide attack at Tiananmen Gate.
In an interview with the ABC earlier this month, the economist said local Uighurs should have a greater say in what happens in Xinjiang.
The arrest is the latest indication of the Chinese government's increasing hardline stance on dissent surrounding Xinjiang, where a series of violent riots in the past year have killed at least 91 people, rights activists say.
Xinjiang is home to the Muslim Uighur people who speak a Turkic language.
Many resent what they see as oppressive treatment by the government, though Beijing says they are granted wide religious, cultural and linguistic freedoms.
Mr Tohti has challenged the government's version of several incidents involving Uighurs, including the alleged car suicide attack, by pointing out inconsistencies in the official accounts, said Nicholas Bequelin, a senior researcher at Human Rights Watch.
For information on how you can help, visit abc.net.au/appeals or call 1800 811 700.
If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC.
Malcolm Turnbull has shown crossbench senators the hangman's noose and their minds will now be focused on one thing: survival.
Boldness is the currency of Canberra and confidence is a substitute for the control MPs will never have. Enter Malcolm Turnbull and the double dissolution gamble he "had to take", writes Chris Berg.
Unless you make plans and talk to loved ones you're unlikely to have any say in how and where you die.
In a fast-changing competition, which AFL teams can improve enough to break into this year's top eight?

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.


AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)
