2015-10~12
http://abruzzo.tv/news/2015/12/29/china-expels-french-journalist-for-supporting-uighur/

China 'expels' French journalist for supporting Uighur community
The article sparked a strong rejection by the Chinese government, which summoned the journalist to the Foreign Ministry and canceled the renewal of her press credentials in hopes that she would retract what she reported.
Ursula Gauthier, a French journalist for the French news magazine, l'Obs, wrote a report in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks in Paris on November 13 in which she accused the Chinese authorities of using the terrorist attacks to cover up their repression of its Uighur population.
"All this is rhetoric", Gauthier said. "Behave! If you don't [toe the government's line] you will have the same end as Ursula Gauthier.' That is what they are saying".
Over the weekend, the shopping neighbourhood of Sanlitun in Beijing was under reinforced guard by People's Armed Police troops after several foreign embassies, including that of the United States, warned that there were heightened security risks there around Christmas.
The Foreign Media Regs, which is more about the process of setting up a foreign media office and obtaining a press card, do not delineate which topics are off limits for foreign journalists.
Writing on Twitter, Sophie Richardson, the China director for Human Rights Watch, said the expulsion was "disgraceful and counterproductive".
"It is always the innocent people that fall victim to terrorism and extremism, and that is why the Chinese government is taking concrete actions to protect its people, including ordinary Americans enjoying Christmas in Beijing's Sanlitun", it said.
Recently, Xinjiang has been home to violent clashes between two ethnic groups. Draconian security measures mean independent reporting on many such incidents is virtually impossible.
He also confirmed that the ministry have refused to renew her press credentials.
Gauthier said she wasn't sure why the editor of the Global Times and the Foreign Ministry had singled her out so forcefully.
Gauthier has denied the accusations against her and said she is prepared to leave on December 31.
The government's decision to expel her was approved by 95 percent of respondents to a poll on the website of the Global Times, an often incendiary publication with close ties to the ruling Communist Party, which was one of the first to object to her article. Gauthier declined to do so. "If it was true that I was supporting terrorism, they should indict me, not expel me, it's a crime".
It said: "France would like to remind how important it is for journalists to be able to work everywhere in the world".
China has blamed Uyghur separatists for a series of deadly attacks, and it claims they are no different from ISIS or al Qaeda terrorists. It is not the real issue. It is not the real issue. "They don't want any other kind of explanation or interpretation". Backers of such laws, including Federal Bureau of Investigation director James Comey, say terrorists are taking advantage of device encryption to plot and carry out attacks in secret.
"Relevant regulations in the anti-terrorism law will not affect the normal business operation of companies, and we do not use the law to set up "back doors" to violate the intellectual property rights of companies", said Li Shouwei of the National People's Congress Standing Committee's legislative affairs commission. "This is the problem". China called it a coordinated terror attack; Gauthier's report suggested otherwise.

 Giants WR Odell Beckham Jr. loses appeal of one-game suspension


 China landslide disaster caused by safety breaches - cabinet website


 Bengals QB Andy Dalton out for Week 17 with thumb fracture


 Murder probe launched after man dies in Christmas Day fire
