2015-10~12
http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2015-11/25/content_22516633.htm

Some officials took part in terrorism, watchdog says - China - Chinadaily.com.cn
Some officials in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region have supported and even taken part in terrorist activities, the head of the regional disciplinary watchdog said.
During a time when terrorists in the region have become more active and anti-terrorism operations have intensified, some officials have failed to stand firm, said Xu Hairong, Party chief of the Xinjiang regional Commission for Discipline Inspection.
His comments appeared in a signed article published in the daily newspaper run by China's top disciplinary watchdog, Chinese Discipline Inspection and Supervision, on Tuesday. He did not disclose any details of how the officials were involved or whether they were charged.
Religious extremism has penetrated deep into Xinjiang, home to more than half of China's Muslim population, and led to an increasing number of terrorist attacks in the region and other parts of China. It is thought some of the terrorists involved have been trained abroad.
"Some officials in the village were removed from their posts for turning a blind eye to religious extremist activities," said Nurmemet Niaz, the new Party chief of Handaikejiran village in Wushi county, in southern Xinjiang's Aksu prefecture.
"Some villagers who were under the influence of religious extremism later participated in terrorist activities. Such damage is hard to reverse."
Party officials, especially those at the grassroots level, are crucial in guiding villagers in the right direction and making sure no one participates in terrorist activities, he added. The central government has made clear that achieving long-term stability is the top priority for Xinjiang.
Zhang Chunxian, Party chief of the region, said Xinjiang Party officials must take the lead in the fight against the "three forces" of extremism, separatism and terrorism.
They should never be vague in their attitude toward the "three forces" nor act two-faced by airing opposite views in public and private on this key matter, he said.
Party officials will be disciplined if they are found inciting ethnic disturbances or being involved in separatist activities, Xu said. They are also strictly prohibited from organizing or using religious activities to oppose the Party's policies and decisions.
In today's trending, the image of a wolf appears on a mountain in Sichuan, man builds his own plane, and a chocolate wonderland opens in Chongqing.

 Copyright 1995 - 

 . All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form. Note: Browsers with 1024*768 or higher resolution are suggested for this site.

 License for publishing multimedia online 0108263             Registration Number: 130349       
