2015-10~12
http://smartraveller.gov.au/countries/china

Travel Advice for China - Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade
24-hour Consular Emergency Centre
 Subscribe to updates
Register your travel plans


 Exercise common sense and look out for suspicious behaviour, as you would in Australia.


 Pay close attention to your personal security at all times and monitor the media about possible new safety or security risks.


 Pay close attention to your personal security at all times and monitor the media about possible new safety or security risks.


This advice contains revised information on the possibility of terrorist attacks in China. The level of the advice has not changed. We continue to advise Australians to exercise normal safety precautions in China overall and to exercise a high degree of caution in Tibet and Xinjiang.

A visa is required for all travellers to China whether for tourism, business, employment or study purposes. You should ensure that you obtain the appropriate visa for the purpose of your visit. It is very difficult to obtain a visa at Chinese border entry points. 

The website of the Embassy of the People's Republic of China in Australia has detailed visa information for Australians planning travel to China. For foreigners already travelling or residing in China, all visa queries should be directed to the Foreigners Entry and Exit Administration Section of the local Public Security Bureau. 

As visa and other entry and exit conditions (such as currency, customs and quarantine regulations) can change at short notice, you should contact the nearest Embassy or consulate of China for the most up to date information.

Chinese authorities strictly enforce penalties for entry and exit visa violations. Travellers should ensure they depart China before their visa expiry date. Penalties include a 500RMB fine (not to exceed 10,000RMB) for each day overstayed, and/or detention. The period of detention can range from 5 to 30 days depending on the severity of the violation. 

All foreigners including long-term residents are required to register their place of residence with the local Public Security Bureau (PSB) within 24 hours of arrival. See Laws for more details.

Hong Kong and Macau are Special Administrative Regions (SAR) and have separate visa and entry administration. Travellers who exit mainland China to visit Hong Kong or Macau may require a new Chinese visa to re-enter mainland China. In particular, travellers with a single entry visa for China should take particular note of this requirement. Some travel permits, issued in Hong Kong or at Hong Kong-Macau-Chinese mainland border crossings, are valid for limited travel to designated areas only such as Shenzhen, Zhuhai or other areas in Guangdong Province. It is illegal to use these permits to travel to other parts of China. Travellers should carefully check the details on their visa.

You may need a visa to transit China if your stopover is longer than 24 hours and requires you to leave the airport. However, if you are staying for less than 24 hours while transiting en route to a third country, and you have a pre-purchased outward ticket, you may not need a transit visa. If you need to leave the airport during the 24 hour period, you may be able to apply for a permit on arrival at the airport. Transit Visas for periods longer than 24 hours are available to Australians at certain airports in Beijing, Chengdu, Guangzhou, Shanghai and several other major cities in China. These requirements are frequently subject to change and vary between airports. You should check specific requirements with the nearest Embassy or Consulate of China.

If travelling to China, your passport must be valid for at least six months after the duration of your intended stay and you must also be able to provide evidence of a return or onward ticket. 

If your passport is lost or stolen while in China you will firstly need to obtain an official loss report from the local police (this report can be used when checking in to a hotel and will be necessary for obtaining a new passport and Chinese visa). You will need to obtain a replacement passport from the nearest Australian embassy or consulate, as well as a Chinese visa to allow you to leave China. Issue of a visa by the Chinese authorities can take up to five working days, and can be delayed significantly longer during Chinese holiday periods. Australians who have lost or had their passport stolen in China should not expect the Chinese visa renewal or replacement process to be expedited for them to meet travel or flight schedules. Keep a copy of your passport and Chinese visa in a safe place when travelling in China. 

Parents should be aware of the local requirement to register a new born child within 30-days of the child's birth. Parents intending to seek Australian citizenship by descent for children born in China should contact the Department of Immigration and Border Protection for further advice.

Where one parent is from mainland China, a child born in China will be considered a Chinese national under Chinese Law. This may affect the willingness of local authorities to recognise the child's Australian citizenship and passport. For further information on this, parents should contact the local Entry and Exit Administration Bureau.

Petty crime directed at foreigners occurs, particularly pickpocketing, purse snatching and theft of laptops, passports and mobile phones. Resisting can lead to violence or injury. Travellers have been targeted on overnight long distance trains and buses and on public transport. Foreigners have been assaulted and robbed, particularly in areas popular with expatriates, including the bar and shopping precincts of Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and in other major cities.

Foreigners have also been targets of a number of scams when travelling in China. Often tourists are approached and invited for a massage, teahouse service, or to a cafe or bar nearby for a number of reasons including 'to practice English'. Afterwards the tourist is presented with a vastly inflated bill and is not permitted to leave until they pay the bill by credit card. Physical violence, including serious assault, and credit card skimming or duplication has occurred.

In Shanghai, male foreigners can be targeted on the Bund and around East Nanjing Road and People’s Square and occasionally Hongqiao by people offering 'massages'. The foreigner is guided to a building and after the massage is provided, threatened and sometimes assaulted by a group of men connected with the establishment. Foreigners have been forced to pay large sums of money.

Travellers have been asked to carry goods concealing narcotics out of China. You should never carry parcels or luggage for others.

There have been reports of foreign travellers being drugged and robbed in China after accepting offers of food, drink or transportation from strangers.

There have been incidents of ATM scams including the use of fake ATMs that take the user's card. It is recommended you use ATMs when accompanied, inside a secure place such as a bank, and during daylight hours to reduce risks.

If you are the victim of petty crime or a scam, you should report it immediately to the nearest police station. Even though they may not be able to get your money or goods back, they can issue you with an official loss report for insurance purposes.

For further information on how to reduce your risk on various types of scams visit our Scams page and the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission's SCAMwatch .

There is a risk of armed bandit attacks in remote areas bordering Pakistan, Burma, Laos, Vietnam and Russia. You should be vigilant if travelling in these areas.

Demonstrations without prior approval from the Chinese government are prohibited and protestors can be arrested. 

Avoid photographing, videoing or participating in protests or other acts which could be seen as provocative by authorities in Tibet, Xinjiang or elsewhere in China. 

Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region (Xinjiang): We advise you to exercise a high degree of caution if travelling to Xinjiang. The security situation in this region is volatile due to heightened ethnic tensions. In 2014 and 2015, violent incidents have resulted in deaths and injuries in Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang and the city of Kashgar. In 2014, incidents were reported in a number of cities and towns across Xinjiang, including in Urumqi and Kashgar. The government may impose restrictions on movement and communications in Kashgar and other parts of southern Xinjiang with little warning. You should avoid any protests or large gatherings. 

Tibet Autonomous Region (Tibet): We advise you to exercise a high degree of caution if travelling to Tibet. In the past, protests have turned violent resulting in deaths and injuries. Demonstrations and violence could occur with little warning. 

You should not attempt to travel to Tibet without permission from the Chinese authorities. Foreigners wishing to travel to Tibet must apply for a Tibet Entry Permit issued by the Tibet Tourism Bureau in Lhasa. For further information, see Local travel.

There is a possibility of terrorist attacks in China. Attacks could be targeted or indiscriminate, including in places visited by expatriates and foreign travellers. 

In recent years, violent attacks, including acts of terrorism, have resulted in injuries and deaths in public places in China, including in railway stations and markets. Australians could inadvertently become victims of violence directed at others.

Terrorism is a threat throughout the world. See our Terrorist Threat Worldwide bulletin. 

ATMs that allow cash withdrawals using Visa, Mastercard, Cirrus, Maestro, American Express and JCB are widely available in large Chinese cities, including Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen. Credit cards are widely accepted in major cities, particularly in international hotels and restaurants. In smaller cities, using international cards may be more difficult.

The Chinese Customs Administration requires that travellers carrying over US$5,000 (or equivalent in foreign currencies) in cash must declare it upon arrival in China. The declaration should be kept safely and shown to customs officials upon departure. Travellers who wish to depart China carrying between US$5,000 and the upper limit of US$10,000 (or equivalent in foreign currencies) should obtain permission from a Chinese bank to do so. 

Your passport is a valuable document that is attractive to criminals who may try to use your identity to commit crimes. It should always be kept in a safe place. You are required by Australian law to report a lost or stolen passport online or contact the nearest Australian Embassy, High Commission or Consulate as soon as possible.

Travellers are permitted only in areas open to foreigners. Travel near military installations and near some border areas within China is restricted.

Foreigners wishing to travel to Tibet must apply for a Tibet Entry Permit issued by the Tibet Tourism Bureau. Applications for Tibet Entry Permits can only be lodged through specialised travel agents in China and travel can only be undertaken through organised tours. 

Tibet, Qinghai, parts of Xinjiang, and western Sichuan are situated at altitudes over 3000 metres. Travellers in these areas may suffer from altitude sickness. 

Travel and living conditions vary greatly between city areas and less developed rural areas. You may have trouble finding services such as banking, internet access and telephones, including mobile phone reception, in rural areas.

Poorly maintained roads and aggressive driving can make travel by road in China dangerous. See our road travel page.

Tour operators, public buses and ferries might not meet the safety standards you would expect in Australia, particularly in rural areas of the country. Sufficient safety equipment may not be provided and recommended maintenance standards and safety precautions may not be observed. Always use available safety equipment, such as lifejackets or seatbelts, even if the locals don't. If appropriate safety equipment is not available, you should try to use another provider. 

You should contact your airline or travel agent for up-to-date information on flights and transport options, for both domestic and international travel.

The Australian Government does not provide information on the safety of individual commercial airlines or flight paths. See instead the Aviation Safety Network website for information on aviation safety in China.

Please also refer to our general air travel page for information on aviation safety and security.

You are subject to the local laws of China, including ones that appear harsh by Australian standards. If you're arrested or jailed, the Australian Government will do what it can to help you under our Consular Services Charter. But we can't get you out of trouble or out of jail. Research laws before travelling, especially for an extended stay.

In China, a person aged 14 years and above is considered to be responsible for their actions, and treated as an adult under the law. If detained, a person of this age will be held with adults and be subject to the same conditions and legal processes as adults.

Penalties for all types of drug offences, including use, possession, manufacturing, selling or trafficking, are severe, and can include life imprisonment or the death penalty. These laws are strictly enforced, even for small quantities of 'soft' drugs and will apply to persons over the age of 14 years.

In 2014 and 2015 a number of foreigners in China were arrested for allegedly trafficking significant quantities of drugs, mainly when attempting to exit China at the airport in Guangzhou. In recent years, Chinese authorities have executed foreign nationals who were found guilty of smuggling drugs. 

The Australian Government cannot override the laws and penalties imposed by another country and it is not able to intervene or interfere in the Chinese judicial process. Under Chinese law, there is very limited scope to appeal for clemency for any Australians sentenced to death. More information on the risks of carrying drugs is available on the drugs page.

Travellers have also been asked to carry goods concealing narcotics out of China. You should never carry parcels or luggage for others. China uses sophisticated technology and highly trained personnel for detecting the carriage of illegal drugs at international airports and throughout China.

Australians in China should understand the serious penalties for all forms of drug offences and comply with local laws in full. 

Other serious crimes may also attract the death penalty. For more information about the death penalty, visit the Amnesty International website.

Demonstrations without prior approval from the government are prohibited. These laws are strictly enforced and if arrested, you could be jailed or deported.

Photography of military or government buildings may result in a penalty. You should seek permission from local authorities before taking photographs.

Homosexual acts are not illegal in China, but you should be aware of local sensitivities. See our LGBTI travellers page page.

All foreigners including long-term residents are required to register their place of residence with the local Public Security Bureau (PSB) within 24 hours of arrival, and at each change of residential location. This can be done by visiting the nearest police station and presenting your passport and valid Chinese visa. Foreigners staying with family or friends in a private home are required to register with the PSB. Failure to do so could result in fines and detention. If you are staying at a hotel, this is done as part of the normal check-in process, after the hotel verifies your passport and valid visa. Foreigners with residence permits are now required to register after each re-entry. 

You should carry evidence of your identity at all times and present it upon demand of police authorities. Your passport or a Chinese residence card is an acceptable form of identity. Failure to carry ID or comply with the registration requirement could result in fines and detention.

Restrictions apply to certain religious activities, including preaching, distributing literature and associating with unapproved religious groups. Falun Gong activities are banned in China. Falun Gong related demonstrations and activities contravene Chinese laws. If you participate, you could be arrested, imprisoned and/or deported. 

Some Australian criminal laws, such as those relating to money laundering, bribery of foreign public officials, terrorism, forced marriage, female genital mutilation, child pornography, and child sex tourism, apply to Australians overseas. Australians who commit these offences while overseas may be prosecuted in Australia.

Increased Australian business activity in China has resulted in higher numbers of commercial disputes in recent years. If you are considering entering into a contract of any sort in China, for example a business contract or residential lease, you are advised to seek professional legal advice before entering into the contract.

If Australian nationals carrying out business in China become involved in a business or civil dispute, they may be prevented from leaving the country until the matter is resolved. This has resulted in Australians being restricted from leaving China for extended periods of time, sometimes many years.

Business issues that may be classified as civil or commercial disputes in Australia, may be classified as criminal matters in China, particularly business dealings where state enterprises or state assets are involved. Penalties for commercial or economic crimes can be severe. 

There has been an increase in the number of incidents in which Australians and other foreigners have been held against their will at their work place. These incidents may involve other companies or disgruntled employees attempting to resolve business and employment disputes through protests which are often accompanied with threats of violence.

Employment in China: Disputes over alleged misrepresentation of working and living conditions for Australians working in China, particularly those teaching English, occur frequently. If you are considering travelling to China for work, you should verify the true nature of the work being offered and make sure you have the correct visa before arrival. You are advised to seek professional legal advice before signing any contract, whether in Australia or after arrival in China.

Other information for business: Australians doing business in China should see our business travel advice for general information on the potential for legal and other risks. The Australian Trade Commission (Austrade) provides specific advice on doing business in China. In addition, our Living and Working Overseas page provides further information for Australians considering working or living overseas.

The Chinese government does not recognise dual nationality and will not allow consular access by the Australian Embassy or Consulate to Australians detained by Chinese authorities if they have entered China on a Chinese passport, a Hong Kong or Macau identity card, an identity card issued by Taiwan or any non-Australian foreign passport. If you are an Australian/Chinese dual national, you should travel on your Australian passport, obtain a visa for China and present yourself as Australian at all times. 

If you are a former Chinese citizen and have not renounced your citizenship according to Chinese law, it is possible that Chinese authorities will continue to treat you as a Chinese citizen and not allow you access to Australian consular services, even if you entered China on an Australian or other foreign passport. If you do not advise the Chinese authorities formally that you have become an Australian citizen, or if you continue to maintain a Chinese passport or household registration, it is possible that Chinese authorities will treat you as a Chinese citizen. Similarly, it is possible that certain types of Chinese citizens, such as state functionaries, will not be permitted to renounce their Chinese nationality under Chinese law. You are advised to seek professional legal advice if you are uncertain about your citizenship status under Chinese law.

We strongly recommend that you take out comprehensive travel insurance that will cover any overseas medical costs, including medical evacuation, before you depart. Confirm that your insurance covers you for the whole time you'll be away and check what circumstances and activities are not included in your policy. Remember, regardless of how healthy and fit you are, if you can't afford travel insurance, you can't afford to travel. The Australian Government will not pay for a traveller's medical expenses overseas or medical evacuation costs.

It is important to consider your physical and mental health before travelling overseas. We encourage you to consider having vaccinations before you travel. At least eight weeks before you depart, make an appointment with your doctor or travel clinic for a basic health check-up, and to discuss your travel plans and any implications for your health, particularly if you have an existing medical condition. The World Health Organization (WHO) provides information for travellers and our health page also provides useful information for travellers on staying healthy.

International standard medical services in China are expensive. We recommend that if you intend to reside in China for an extended period of time, you should explore options for local health insurance or ask your employer if health coverage is provided through your employment.

The standard of medical care and the range of familiar medications available in China is often limited, particularly outside of major cities. Medical personnel in rural areas of the country may lack adequate training. Some hospitals in major cities have specialised departments for treating foreigners. Hospitals and doctors often require cash payment, prior to providing medical services, including for emergency care. Medical evacuation from China is very expensive.

Travel to China for medical treatment is increasing. Australians should ensure that they are not lured to uncertified medical establishments where medical standards are lacking or where the establishment is not able to provide the medical service or patient care advertised. You should seek independent information, such as from health professionals and former patients, to satisfy yourself of the quality of medical service.

Tap water in China may not be safe to drink, depending on your location. Travellers are advised to drink only bottled water with intact seals.

Avian influenza: The World Health Organization has previously confirmed human deaths from avian influenza in China. The Department of Health advises Australians who reside in China for an extended period to consider, as a precautionary measure, having access to influenza antiviral medicine for treatment. However, you should seek medical advice before taking antiviral medicines. Long term residents are at a greater risk of exposure to avian influenza over time. Australians intending to travel to China for shorter periods are at much lower risk of infection but should discuss the risk of avian influenza with their doctor as part of their routine pre-travel health checks. You should see a doctor if you become sick with fever, coughing, or have difficulty breathing during or after travel to China.

If the avian influenza viruses mutate to a form where efficient human-to-human transmission occurs, it may spread quickly and local authorities could move quickly to impose restrictions on travel. Australian travellers and long-term residents in China should be prepared to take personal responsibility for their own safety and well-being, including deciding when to leave an affected area and ensuring they have appropriate contingency plans in place. Australians in China should subscribe to the travel advice and Avian Influenza bulletin for updated information and advice on cases. Australians should also ensure that their travel documents, including passports and visas for any non-Australian family members, are up to date in case they need to depart at short notice.

Avian influenza virus strains H5N1 and H7N9 continue to circulate in poultry in China. The primary source of infection appears to be poultry handled within poultry markets. Australians in China are advised to minimise their exposure to live poultry, avoid visiting live bird and animal markets (including 'wet'; markets) and poultry farms, and to practise good hand and personal hygiene. Proper handling of poultry and poultry products during food preparation and thorough cooking of all parts of the poultry is recommended.

For more information see the Department of Health's avian influenza (H7N9) page and avian influenza (H5N1) pages. The website of the World Health Organization also has information on avian influenza in humans. 

Japanese Encephalitis: Japanese Encephalitis (also known as Encephalitis B), a mosquito-borne disease, is endemic in rural areas of Southern China from June to August. A Japanese encephalitis vaccine is registered for use and is currently available in Australia. For further details please consult your travel health doctor.

HIV/AIDS: HIV/AIDS is a significant concern in China. There is a risk of exposure to unsafe blood and blood products in regional China. Travellers should specifically request the use of sterilised equipment. Additional charges may be incurred for the use of new syringes in hospitals or clinics. You should exercise appropriate precautions if engaging in activities that expose you to risk of infection.

Rabies: Health authorities report a high number of animal and human rabies cases annually in China. You should be cautious in all contact with both wild and domestic animals in China.

Malaria and Dengue Fever: The risk of malaria is heightened in rural areas of the country, particularly in the provinces of Hainan, Yunnan, Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou, Sichuan, Tibet (Zanbo Valley areas only), Anhui, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi and Shandong. The risk of malaria increases during warm weather. In Guangdong, and Guangzhou in particular, there has been a sharp rise in cases of dengue. The risk of contracting dengue rises during the wet season. You should speak to your doctor about taking prophylaxis against malaria ; ensure your accommodation is mosquito proof; and take measures to avoid insect bites, including using an insect repellent at all times and wearing long, loose fitting, light coloured clothing.

Hand, Foot and Mouth Disease: Hand, Foot and Mouth Disease (HFMD) is common in China with more serious outbreaks occurring from time to time. In Asia, outbreaks of HFMD usually start in March/April and peak in May but can continue until August to October each year. It mostly affects children under the age of 10 years but adult cases (particularly young adults) are not unusual. The illness is characterised by fever as well as blisters and rashes on the hands, feet and buttocks. HFMD is spread by direct contact with nose and throat discharges and faeces of infected people. Normal hygiene precautions should be taken including careful and frequent hand washing. 

Pollution: Major cities in China, including Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Chengdu experience frequent high pollution. Children, the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions, particularly cardiac and respiratory, may be especially affected. If you live in or intend to visit China and are concerned about the levels of air pollution you should seek medical advice. Northern China is particularly susceptible to high levels of pollution. In 2015, Chinese authorities began issuing red alerts for periods of expected high pollution. When a red alert is in place, authorities implement measures such as closing schools, limiting car use and suspending construction activity. Flights schedules are regularly delayed in China because of smog. You should follow advice from local authorities about days with high levels of pollution and methods to reduce exposure. 

The Chinese Ministry of Environmental Protection provides air quality data for cities in China. You can monitor the pollution index for many cities through websites and mobile apps such as the Air Quality Index or the website of the US Embassy which provides air quality index ratings based on the standards of the US Environmental Protection Agency. Information on air quality can also be found on the World Health Organisation website.

Dust storms, which occur on occasion across the north of the country, can cause eye, nose, mouth and throat irritations and exacerbate respiratory and cardiovascular problems.

Quarantine requirements vary throughout the provinces and municipalities in China. Contact the nearest Embassy or Consulate of China for the most up to date information. 

Depending on the nature of your enquiry, your best option may be to contact your family, friends, airline, travel agent, tour operator, employer or travel insurance provider in the first instance. 

For most emergency issues, you can call the 24 hour Emergency Police Centre on 110. For medical issues, call the 24 hour Medical Emergency Centre on 120.

The Consular Services Charter explains what the Australian Government can and can't do to assist Australians overseas. For consular assistance, see contact details below:


21 Dongzhimenwai Dajie
Sanlitun, Beijing 100600
Telephone: (86 10) 5140 4111
Facsimile: (86 10) 5140 4292
Website: www.china.embassy.gov.au 


Level 22, CITIC Square
1168 Nanjing Xi Lu
Shanghai 200041 
Telephone: (86 21) 2215 5200
Facsimile: (86 21) 2215 5252
Website: www.shanghai.china.embassy.gov.au


12th Floor, Development Centre
No. 3 Linjiang Road
Zhujiang New City
Guangzhou 510623 
Telephone: (86 20) 3814 0111 
Facsimile: (86 20) 3814 0112
Website: www.guangzhou.china.embassy.gov.au


27th Floor, Square One
18 Dongyu Street, Jinjiang District
Chengdu 610016 
Telephone: (86 28) 6268 5200 
Facsimile: (86 28) 6268 5222
E-mail: consulate.chengdu@dfat.gov.au
Website: www.chengdu.china.embassy.gov.au

See the Embassy website for information about opening hours and temporary closures that may affect service provision.

If you are travelling to China, whatever the reason and however long you'll be there, we encourage you to register with the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. You can register online or in person at any Australian Embassy, High Commission or Consulate. The information you provide will help us to contact you in an emergency - whether it is a natural disaster, civil disturbance or a family issue.

In a consular emergency if you are unable to contact the Embassy you can contact the 24-hour Consular Emergency Centre on +61 2 6261 3305 or 1300 555 135 within Australia.

The rainy season occurs between April and October. Severe rainstorms can cause flooding and mudslides which may interrupt essential services. Typhoons can occur along the southern and eastern coasts between May and November. You should monitor weather reports if travelling in affected areas. If travelling during typhoon season you should contact your tour operator to check whether tourist services at your planned destination have been affected.

The direction and strength of typhoons can change with little warning. You can check the latest typhoon information from the World Meteorological Organisation Severe Weather Information Centre or the China Meteorological Association.

In the event of an approaching typhoon, you should identify your local shelter. Flights in and out of affected areas could be delayed or suspended. Available flights may fill quickly. You should contact your airline for the latest flight information. The typhoon could also affect access to sea ports in the region. In some areas, adequate shelter from a severe typhoon may not be available to all who may choose to stay. You should review and follow hotel or cruise ship evacuation plans. Carry your travel documents at all times (i.e. passport, photo identification, etc.) or secure them in a safe, waterproof location. We also suggest that you contact friends and family in Australia with updates about your welfare and whereabouts. For further information, see our severe weather page.

China is subject to earthquakes See our earthquakes bulletin for advice on travelling to and living in an earthquake-prone region.

All oceanic regions of the world can experience tsunamis, but in the Indian and Pacific Oceans, there is a more frequent occurrence of large, destructive tsunamis because of the many large earthquakes along major tectonic plate boundaries and ocean trenches. See the Tsunami Awareness brochure. 

For general information and tips on travelling with children see our Travelling with children page.

For passport information, visit the Australian Passport Office or call the Australian Passport Information Service on 131 232 from Australia.
Smartraveller is provided by the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.
For how we can help you overseas, see the Consular Services Charter.
Be the first to know official government advice when travelling.
Help us contact you or your family in the event of an emergency.