2015-10~12
http://vyatkaarbat.ru/2015/12/30/china-expels-french-journalist-over-uighur-article/

China 'expels' French journalist over Uighur article
China will boot French journalist for article criticizing ruling party
China said Saturday that it will not renew press credentials for a French journalist, effectively expelling her following a harsh media campaign against her for questioning the official line equating ethnic violence in China's western Muslim region with global "terrorism".
China's foreign ministry said Monday Gauthier had made critical comments in a decade of reporting from the country but that her article on Xinjiang was particularly offensive and justified her expulsion.
The foreign ministry said last week a report she did for L'Obs "flagrantly championed acts of terrorism and acts of cruelly killing innocents".
Xinjiang, home to the mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority group, has been plagued by unrest in recent years, prompting China to launch a police crackdown on separatist "terrorists" it says are behind the violence.
Gauthier will be the first foreign journalist to be expelled after al-Jazeera correspondent Melissa Chan in 2012.
Uighurs in Xinjiang have long complained of state repression, accusing the government of restricting their ability to practise their religion, and encouraging Han Chinese immigration to the province to decrease their share of the population.
According to an English translation of Gauthier's original report published by China Digital Times, the French journalist stated that even though the Xinjiang attack had been bloody, it "had nothing in common" with the Paris attacks.
In the article, she blamed government policy in Xinjiang Uygur region for terrorist attacks.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said he was "dissatisfied" with the USA position and hoped they respected China's law-making process and did not adopt "double standards".
China will never tolerate the "freedom" of speaking for terrorism, he added. U.S. President Barack Obama has said that he had raised concerns about the law directly with Chinese President Xi Jinping.
According to AP, China's problem with Gauthier began after her November 18 article, in which she wrote that Beijing's declaration of solidarity with Paris after the deadly Paris attacks has a secret agenda behind.
The piece was part of a tidal wave of criticism that Ms Gauthier said led to death threats against her from angry readers.
China has studied USA and European Union laws in drafting its own counterterrorism bill which requires tech firms to assist security authorities to prevent and investigate terrorism, an legislative official said here Sunday.
Xinjiang suffers frequent outbreaks of violence including ethnic rioting and, more recently, what appear to be attacks on civilians by Islamic extremists.
The poll conducted by huanqiu.com, a website affiliated with the Global Times Chinese edition, shows that as of 7 pm on Sunday, 198,210 votes were cast in favor of the decision to expel Ursula Gauthier, or 94.5 percent of the total.
Gauthier denied the accusations, saying she has the impression that no one inside the ministry has read her article.