2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/11/18/russian-airliner-downed-by-onboard-isis-bomb-putin-swears-vengeance/

Russian Airliner Downed By Onboard ISIS Bomb, Putin Swears Vengeance | Funs.co
The Russian plane that had taken off from Egypt, headed for St. Petersburg, crashed in the desert about two weeks ago. A Russian investigation has now determined that the plane was destroyed in the air by a bomb smuggled on board by ISIS. Russian President Putin has vowed to hunt those responsible and bring them to justice. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“Russia said for the first time on Tuesday that a bomb aboard a Russian charter jet full of vacationers had destroyed the aircraft that crashed more than two weeks ago on Egypt’s Sinai Peninsula, and the Kremlin responded immediately by escalating airstrikes across Syria.
The Russians said they were coordinating their military campaign with France in sharply ratcheting up attacks on Syrian territory, especially areas held by the Islamic State, the militant group that has asserted responsibility for destroying the Russian jetliner and for the deadly attacks across Paris on Friday.
Russia said it had deployed cruise missiles, long-range bombers flying from Russia and other warplanes, releasing the details through a military briefing for President Vladimir V. Putin and Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu televised live nationwide.”*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.