2015-10~12
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2015-12-27/china-expels-french-journalist-ursula-gauthier-over-article-critical-of-beijings-policy-on-muslim-ui/1530136

China 'expels' French journalist Ursula Gauthier over article critical of Beijing's policy on Muslim Uighurs | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
China is 'expelling' a French journalist for writing article critical of Beijing's stance on Muslim Uighurs in Xinjiang.
China is effectively expelling a French journalist who criticised Beijing's treatment of the Muslim Uighur minority in the north-west region of Xinjiang.
Beijing is refusing to renew the press visa of Ursula Gauthier, the Beijing correspondent for the weekly L'Obs news magazine.
Her visa expires at the end of December and Ms Gauthier will be forced to leave the country.
L'Obs said China refused to extend the visa, accusing her of supporting acts of terrorism by writing an article on Uighur minorities.
The story, dated November 18, suggested that China was using last month's Paris attacks to justify crackdowns on Uighur people in Xinjiang.
"From the beginning, they wanted me to apologise for supporting terrorism," Ms Gauthier told reporters.
Hundreds of minorities have been killed in recent years in the region, which is beset by ethnic tensions Uighur groups blame on repressive government policies.
"I said I never supported terrorism, how do you want me to apologise for something I have not written." Ms Gauthier said.
China denies any human rights abuses against Uighurs and says it faces a campaign from Islamist radicals and separatists.
L'Obs said Ms Gauthier was the subject of editorials in state-controlled media and even death threats after her article was published.
A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Lu Kang, said the article "openly supports terrorist activity, the killing of innocents and has outraged the Chinese public".
His comments appeared in a question-and-answer posted on the ministry's website on Saturday.
Mr Lu added that because Ms Gauthier did not make a public apology, she could not work in China.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.