2015-10~12
http://asia.nikkei.com/Politics-Economy/International-Relations/Is-London-putting-money-over-principles-in-wooing-Beijing

U.K.-China ties: Is London putting money over principles in wooing Beijing?- Nikkei Asian Review
LONDON -- The British government is pulling out all the stops to ensure a warm welcome for Chinese President Xi Jinping on his five-day visit through Oct. 23. But some U.K. citizens are complaining that in trying to create a closer relationship with the world's second-largest economy, London is choosing to ignore some of its democratic values.
     Xi is the first Chinese head of state to make an official visit to the country since his predecessor, Hu Jintao, did so 10 years ago.
     The U.K. government is giving Xi special attention, including inviting him to stay at Buckingham Palace. Clearly, it wants the visit to set the tone for a stronger future relationship. But critics say the government is selling out its principles by turning a blind eye to Beijing's poor track records on political freedom and human rights.
In 2012, British Prime Minister David Cameron met with the 14th Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual leader of the Tibetan people. This angered the Chinese government, which maintains that Tibet has traditionally been a part of its territory. Beijing halted all summit- and ministerial-level contact with the U.K. and bolstered ties with Germany, France and other European countries.
     Alarmed by the fierce response, the U.K. dramatically changed its tune. Under the leadership of finance minister George Osborne, who strongly objected to Cameron's meeting with the Dalai Lama, the British government introduced policies and measures that are highly friendly toward China, opening the door to yuan trading and promoting investment by Chinese businesses.
     Known as the "iron chancellor" due to the stern austerity measures introduced under his watch, Osborne, one of the top candidates to succeed Cameron, is integral to the country's China-friendly policies.
     While visiting China in September, Osborne said the relationship between the two countries was entering a "golden era." China rolled out the red carpet for Osborne, who was there to pave the way for Xi's U.K. visit.
     Osborne visited the Shanghai Stock Exchange when the Chinese stock market was reeling with sharp declines. As if to help calm the nerves of shell-shocked local investors, he said the stock plunge was simply part of the process of moving toward sustainable economic growth.
In March, the U.K. became one of the first industrialized nations to announce its decision to join the China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. The move spoke volumes about the U.K.'s changing relationship with the U.S., which, along with Japan, is still keeping its distance from the Chinese initiative.
     The U.S. and the U.K. have had a special relationship since the end of World War II. The former colonial giant has maintained its international influence in part through the close ties between its leaders and powerful U.S. presidents. But U.S. President Barack Obama's influence as a leader has been eroded by policy missteps in the Middle East and elsewhere.
     While America's global influence has been gradually waning, China's has been increasing on the back of its economic might. According to Germany's Mercator Institute for China Studies, China's overseas investment is second only to that of the U.S., at more than $100 billion a year.
     Data on China's cumulative investment in Europe from 2000 to 2014 shows that the U.K. was the largest beneficiary, receiving 12.2 billion euros ($13.9 billion) in Chinese investment. Germany and France followed far behind, at 6.8 billion euros and 5.9 billion euros, respectively.
     The U.S. and China will switch places in various areas over the next decade, said Jim O'Neill, a noted economist who now oversees infrastructure-related policy in the U.K. as commercial secretary to the Treasury.
     With that eventuality in mind, the British government is looking to make the most of Xi's visit and strengthen its financial ties with China by promoting cooperation in a wide range of fields, including yuan trading, nuclear power and high-speed railway systems.
     "Britain can't run away from China. Quite the opposite, Britain should run towards China," Osborne said during his visit.
But this "economy first" approach has stirred anger in the U.K. Many citizens there were frustrated by their government's silence when Beijing quashed the "Umbrella Revolution," last year's pro-democracy campaign in Hong Kong, a former British colony.
     And some in the U.K. were unhappy that Osborne visited Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, during his trip to China. Beijing has been criticized over alleged human rights violations there, and Osborne's visit could be seen as helping legitimize Beijing's actions in the region.
     "What is curious is the British assumption that a healthy economic relationship demands a submissive stance on everything else," wrote a columnist in the Financial Times newspaper in September.
     One influential member of the U.K.'s ruling Conservative Party bemoaned what he saw as his party's abandonment of key principles to get on China's good side, saying, "The source of Britain's soft power derived from our firm commitment to the issues of human rights and freedom around the globe." 
You have limited access. To enjoy full access, subscribe now.
Your subscription renewal has not been processed.Please update your payment information and enjoy full access.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week

Your subscription renewal could not be processed. Please update your payment information to continue enjoying the Nikkei Asian Review.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week


 Nikkei Asian Review is the only publication that brings you Insight about Asia, from the inside out.
 XXcontractNameXX has enabled you free full access to Nikkei Asian Review.
