2015-10~12
http://www.scmp.com/news/asia/south-asia/article/1879050/no-obstacle-too-big-china-builds-us275-million-tunnel-through

No obstacle too big: China builds US$275 million tunnel through Pakistan mountain for new highway to replace the old Silk Road | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Border town sits at gateway of lucrative trade with China, but locals expect to be overlooked
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
A glossy highway and hundreds of  trucks transporting Chinese workers by the thousands: The new Silk Road is under construction in northern Pakistan, but locals living on the border are yet to be convinced they will receive more from it than dust.
 The town of Sost is gateway to  lucrative customs duties, with its rickety stalls of corrugated iron engraved in  Chinese and Urdu, its cross-border secret agents and its dusty petrol station’s abrupt service. It is the first stop along a new US$46 billion “economic corridor” designed by China in Pakistan.
 Drivers from China arrive through the Khunjerab Pass, the world’s highest paved border crossing at 4,600 metres above sea level, and unload their goods encircled by the magnificent Karakoram mountains. 
From there, Pakistani colleagues pick up the goods and transport them the length of the country - currently to Karachi, some 2,000km away on the Arabian Sea, but in the future to Gwadar, where Beijing has been given management of the port in a grand project allowing China greater access to the Middle East, Africa and Europe.
But until recently, the highway was cut off just south of Sost, blocked for five years by a landslide that dammed the Hunza river and birthed the 10km-long lake of Attabad.
Unable to drive around the mountain, China simply tunnelled through it, sending thousands of workers in a titanic effort that took more than three years and cost at least US$275 million.
The new Chinese highway has replaced the old Silk Road - a tortuous dirt track travelled for centuries by trade caravans. Before the tunnel, residents of Sost had to cross the lake by boat in a journey that took at least an hour. Traffic in winter was meagre.
"With the tunnel, we hope business will take off and tourists flock here," said trader Amjad Ali.
"We are once again connected by road to the rest of Pakistan," rejoiced another Sost resident, Mohammed Israr.
But their optimism is tempered by fear that the trucks will simply drive on by, leaving Sost to receive, as Ali put it, "nothing but dust".
"The Chinese care only for their own economic interest," said Noor-e-din, another trader.
"We risk spending our days counting trucks as they drive past," he lamented.
Islamabad, he predicted, is set to collect millions in customs duty from Sost while doing little or nothing for the town.
Israr, for his part, evoked a land grab by wealthy Chinese and Pakistanis "from below" (the south). The latter have already approached farmers in the region in a bid to snap up their fields.
Sitting on the border of his potato field under the shade of an apple tree, Ali Qurban said he feared losing his beloved region in Islamabad's grand dance with Beijing.
"This is my land of Gilgit-Baltistan, not that of Pakistan or China," the local activist and occasional poet cried.
A land of peaks and glaciers, of verdant valleys and azure lakes, Gilgit-Baltistan was long a collection of small kingdoms before being attached to Pakistan in the 1970s.
It does not have provincial status and its inhabitants do not have the right to vote in national elections, hence the feeling of alienation from Islamabad and the lack of a voice on the economic corridor.
But for the head of local government, Hafiz Hafeez ur-Rehman, the project is a "game-changer" for a region that should be the "prime beneficiary" as it is located on the threshold of China.
The government planned to install commercial areas and invest in hydroelectric dam projects along the future super-highway to the south, he said.
Other, more shadowy political and security factors also contribute to the sense of alienation in Gilgit, such as Beijing's and Islamabad's apparent efforts to clamp down on the restive regions that surround the corridor.
In Gilgit-Baltistan, the most famous local militant nationalist, Baba Jan, has been imprisoned for "terrorism" since 2011 for organising an anti-government demonstration.
In the neighbouring Chinese region of Xinjiang , Beijing is closely monitoring Muslim Uygurs, saying that extremists from the minority are in hiding in Pakistan - a claim that has been supported by local security sources.
For locals, it all adds up to a lack of agency.
The Pakistani government and the military have "paralysed the people here", the activist Qurban said, adding they are suppressed "as Uygurs are suppressed by the Chinese government in Xinjiang".
"The decision-makers will decide for themselves what the benefit of the economic corridor is," he said.
Muhammad Qasim, a Uygur now living in Gilgit whose angular face is woven with wrinkles, remembers leaving Xinjiang as a child to seek refuge in what is now Pakistan after China's communist revolution.
"At the time it was just a narrow path - no roads, no vehicles. Our only means of transport was a donkey."