2015-10~12
http://www.ecns.cn/2015/10-02/183274.shtml

China stresses stability, security on Xinjiang's founding anniversary
Yu Zhengsheng (front), chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), addresses a grand rally marking the 60th anniversary of the founding of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region in Urumqi, capital city of northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Oct. 1, 2015. (Photo: Xinhua/Rao Aimin)
Top political advisor Yu Zhengsheng on Thursday said that long-term stability and security is the top priority in Xinjiang, stressing counterterrorism as the focus of the current work.
Yu, chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, made the remarks at a grand rally in Urumqi, the regional capital, marking the 60th anniversary of the autonomous region's founding.
All policies and programs on economic development, people's livelihoods, reform, ethnic minorities and religion should contribute to the final goal, Yu said.
"We must be fully aware of the severe situation we are facing to maintain long-term stability in Xinjiang," Yu said. "Counterterrorism is the focus of our current work."
"The three forces (separatism, terrorism and extremism) are the biggest threats for Xinjiang and the common enemies for people of all ethnic groups. We must clench our fists tight and take the initiative to crack down on violence and terror activities strictly and lawfully and fight the three forces," Yu said.
"We must fully realize that the anti-separatism combat is a long-term, complicated and fierce one," Yu said, calling for lawful methods and an improved work mechanism to ensure stability and security, with a focus on preventing evil forces from infiltrating people's ideology.
The government will also address other social problems, he said, adding that it will balance security efforts with the need for economic development, he promised.
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, with a population of 22 million from 47 ethnic groups, celebrated its 60th anniversary on Thursday. A system of ethnic regional autonomy was established in Xinjiang when it was founded on Oct. 1, 1955.
Yu noted prominent development of Xinjiang over the past 60 years in various fields such as agriculture, farming, modern industry, logistics, tourism, infrastructure, transport, and environmental protection. He cited that the region's GDP last year was 115.6 times of that in 1955.
"The living standards for people of all ethnic groups have improved considerably... [The region] has achieved the shift from poverty to a well-off society in general, and is striding forward to an all-round well-off society," Yu said, citing the nine-year compulsory education which has covered urban and rural areas, better medical services, and the protection of culture and custom of ethnic minorities.
Gala celebrating 60th anniv. of autonomy of Xinjiang held in Urumqi