2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/11/18/bobby-jindal-drops-out-of-republican-presidential-primary-race/

Bobby Jindal Drops Out Of Republican Presidential Primary Race | Funs.co
Breaking news: Bobby Jindal has withdrawn from the Republican primary. He realized this is not his time. He should probably realize that never will be his time. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal (R) ended his presidential campaign on Tuesday.
“I’ve come to the realization that this is not my time, so I’ve come here to announce that I am suspending my campaign for president of the United States,” he told Fox News’ Bret Baier.
Jindal, who entered the presidential race in June, has remained near the back of the Republican pack since then. In recent months, his persistently low polling numbers relegated him to the smaller televised events that preceded each of the main GOP debates.”*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.