2015-10~12
http://www.memri.org/report/en/0/0/0/0/0/0/8832.htm

Jihad and Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM) Weekend Summary
The following are some of this week's reports from the
MEMRI Jihad and Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM) Project, which translates and
analyzes content from sources monitored around the clock, among them the most
important jihadi websites and blogs. (To view these reports in full, you must
be a paying member of the JTTM; for membership information, send an email to [email protected] with "Membership" in the subject line.)
Note
to media and government: For a full copy of these reports, send an email with
the title of the report in the subject line to [email protected]. Please include your name, title, and organization in your
email.
EXCLUSIVE:
In Latest Issues Of Their English Magazines, ISIS And Al-Qaeda Take Different
Tacks To Address Racial Tensions In West
The following report is a complimentary offering from MEMRI's Jihad and
Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM). For JTTM subscription information, click
here.
Jihadi organizations
often highlight and exploit divisive issues in the West as a way of promoting
their own causes, and of deflecting criticism of themselves. Groups such as the
Islamic State (ISIS) and Al-Qaeda are keenly aware that they can use the racial
issues in the U.S. to their advantage to attract new recruits, as they stress
the idea that all are equal in Islam in order to appeal to those who feel
themselves to be disenfranchised and discriminated against in the West.
ISIS in particular has
gone to great lengths to showcase the so-called Caliphate's alleged diversity
and harmony, where all peacefully coexist. In Twitter campaigns, it has
capitalized on events such as tensions such as the Baltimore unrest to promote
its egalitarian agenda in which Muslims of all shades are equal, which is
particularly appealing to minorities. Members of minorities, including
African Americans, have joined ISIS and Jabhat Al-Nusra in Syria; however, it
should be noted that these recruits come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
Some are college graduates, while others are former gang members.
EXCLUSIVE:
Foreign Fighters In Syria: Syria Will Be The Graveyard Of The Russians
The following clip is a complimentary offering from MEMRI's Jihad and Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM). For JTTM subscription information, click here.
In a video
posted on the Internet on October 13, 2015, foreign Jihadi fighters are shown
standing with weapons and threatening Russia that "Syria will be the
graveyard of the Russians."
EXCLUSIVE:
Twitter Users Allege That Popular American Jihadi 'Mujahid Miski,' Previously
Rumored Killed, Is Alive And Was Punished By Al-Shabaab For His Pro-ISIS Stance
Mohamed
Abdullahi Hassan of Minneapolis, Minnesota, an Al-Shabaab fighter in Somalia,
was a prominent figure on social media and ran an extremely popular Twitter
account with a mass following in the past. He was a prolific tweeter, and when
his posts stopped earlier this year, rumors spread that the fighter had been
killed. However, on October 22, two Twitter users alleged that the fighter was
alive, and that his return to Twitter was imminent. One user claimed that Miski
was punished by Al-Shabaab for his vocal online support for ISIS.
EXCLUSIVE:
In Pashtu Video, ISIS Khurasan Commander Threatens Attacks Against Jews And
Christians Until They Are Eliminated From Earth
The Khurasan province of the Islamic State (ISIS) has threatened to
target Jews and Christians in a new video posted online. The five-minute video,
shot in a mountainous area somewhere in the Pakistan-Afghanistan border region,
features an ISIS commander delivering his statement in Pashtu.
EXCLUSIVE:
AQAP Releases Messages In Support Of Palestinian Attacks, Stresses: Syria Is 'Gate
To Liberating Palestine'
On October 23, 2015, Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) issued
two audio messages expressing support for the Palestinians and their attacks on
Jews and urging all Muslims to aid the Palestinian efforts. The messages also
stressed the importance of Syria as the key to liberating Palestine, and
therefore called to intensify the war in Syria against the Americans and
Russians.
To request copy of the magazine,
send an email with the title of the report in the subject line to [email protected]. Please include your name,
title, and organization in your email.
On October 25, 2015, the Al-Qaeda-affiliated Global Islamic Media Group
(GIMF) released the second edition of Al-Risalah, an English-language magazine
devoted to promoting Al-Qaeda and its Syrian branch, Jabhat Al-Nusra (JN).
Al-Qaeda
In Syria Publishes Interview With Australian Jihadi Usama Hamza Australi – A
Veteran Of Jihad In Afghanistan, Military Trainer For Jabhat Al-Nusra

The second issue of Al-Risalah,
an English-language magazine published by Al-Qaeda (AQ) affiliates in Syria,
features an interview with an Australian, a veteran Al-Qaeda operative known as
Usama Hamza Australi. The operative, whose real name is unknown, states that he
has been a member of Al-Qaeda for some 14 years, and that he is currently
stationed in Syria and serving as a military trainer for Jabhat Al-Nusra. His
interview offers rare insight into the profile of a high-ranking Al-Qaeda field
commander.
Second
Issue of Jabhat Al-Nusrah (JN) English Magazine 'Al-Risalah' Features Article
By British JN Fighter
On October 25, 2015,
the Al-Qaeda-affiliated Global Islamic Media Group (GIMF) released the second
issue of Al-Risalah, an English-language
magazine promoting Al-Qaeda and its Syrian affiliate Jabhat Al-Nusra (JN).
Second
Issue Of Al-Qaeda's Magazine 'Al-Risalah' Praises The Role Of Uyghur Fighters
In Syria
The second edition of Al Risalah, the English-language magazine published by Al-Qaeda
(AQ) affiliates in Syria, features an unsigned two part article praising the
efforts of the Turkestan fighters and particularly the Uyghurs who have
immigrated to Syria to join the anti-Assad jihad at the side of other Islamic
groups like Jabhat Al-Nusra. Several thousand Turkestani fighters are now in
Syria, and the majority of them are Turkestan Islamic Party (TIP) fighters.
TIP
Posts Second Video Of Uighur Fighters Combating Syrian Army In Ghab Plain
On October 25, 2015, the Turkmenistan Islamic Party (TIP), a
Uighur jihad group, released a second video documenting its recent battles
against the Syrian army in the Ghab plain, northwest of Hama. The
six-minute video, which, like the first one, was posted on the Twitter page of
the group's media center.
Mosul-Based
Activist Group Releases Photos Of Children's Textbooks Used In ISIS Educational
System
Mosul Eye, A Facebook
page run by a group of activists who report on ISIS activity in Mosul, posted
23 images of children's textbook covers in an October 25 post. The entry reads:
"[These] are the curricula that ISIL is teaching to children in Mosul.
Indoctrination to violence, killing and destruction. We are posting the covers
of those books only for now and will post those books in their entirety after
we upload them onto the web."
Warning
– Graphic: ISIS In Aleppo Province Stones Two Men For Homosexuality
The following report is a complimentary offering from MEMRI's Jihad and
Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM). For JTTM subscription information, click here.
On October 25, 2015 the ISIS–Aleppo Province posted a series
of photos showing the stoning to death of two young men convicted of engaging
in homosexual relations. The message, published under the Twitter hashtag "Aleppo
Province," cites Muslim religious texts justifying the execution of
homosexuals, such as a hadith according to which the Prophet said, "You
must kill anyone when it becomes clear that he engaged in homosexual relations,
irrespective of whether he was the active or the passive [partner]". The
photos show the two men being stoned in front of a crowd of onlookers,
including children.
On October 28, 2015, the Islamic State (ISIS) posted several
images showing the construction and operation of a new media point in the area
of Amiriyat Al-Falluja, south of the city of Al-Falluja.
ISIS media points are information booths in areas controlled
by the group, in which it displays its propaganda and religious materials and
distributes them to the public. (For a review of ISIS's use of those media
points, see MEMRI's Inquiry & Analysis Series No. 1190, The
Islamic State (ISIS) Establishes 'Media Points' In Syria, Iraq, Libya To
Indoctrinate Caliphate Citizens And Enhance Its Cyber Activities On The Ground:
A One-Year Review, October 1, 2015).
ISIS
Video Shows Alleged Ruins Of Prison Targeted In Kurdish-American Raid
The media group A'maq, which is affiliated with the Islamic
State (ISIS), published a 2-minute video allegedly showing the aftermath of the
raid on Hawija prison in northern Iraq.
ISIS
Claims Responsibility For Bombing Of Ismaili Mosque In Najran, Saudi Arabia
On October 27, 2015, the media office of the Islamic State
(ISIS) in Hejaz, Saudi Arabia, claimed responsibility for a suicide attack
against a mosque belonging to the Ismaili sect in the city of Najran, in the
south of the country. The statement, which was posted on the pro-ISIS online
jihadi forum Shumoukh Al-Islam, said that the bomber was "Abu Ishaq
Al-Hijazi," and included a photo of him in a suicide vest.
In
His Last Will And Testament, Najran Mosque Bomber Threatens Ismailis And Saudi
Soldiers, Criticizes Scholars Affiliated With Saudi Government
On October 28, 2015, the media office of the Islamic State
(ISIS) in Hejaz, Saudi Arabia, released an audio statement by the bomber of a
Shi'ite mosque in Najran in which he warned that ISIS will target the "rejectionist
Ismailis and the tyrant's soldiers" and harshly criticized scholars
associated with the Saudi government.
Pro-ISIS
Online Group 'Islamic Cyber Army' Incites Terror Against French Interests,
Citizens
On October 25, 2015, a group of five pro-ISIS online
activists who have claimed responsibility for many cyber attacks launched an
incitement campaign on Twitter and Telegram with the hashtag "France under
Hacks."
The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (the Taliban shadow
organization) has released a video featuring Taliban suicide bombers undergoing
going intensive military training somewhere in the Pakistan-Afghan border
region. The suicide bombers belong to the Haqqani Network of the Taliban.