2015-10~12
http://sofrep.com/35789/xinjiang-geopolitics-insurrection/

Xinjiang and the Geopolitics of an Insurrection | SOFREP
On Thursday, May 22nd, two sport utility vehicles pulled into a popular market in Urumqi, the regional capital of Xinjiang Province in northwest China. As the vehicles swung through the open street area teeming with elderly shoppers, occupants inside tossed explosive devices into the crowded streets. After exhausting their supply of hand-tossed explosives, the attackers committed a suicidal attack, detonating massive devices installed in the vehicles themselves. Four of the attackers were confirmed dead immediately following the attack while a fifth was taken into custody by Chinese authorities on May 23rd. In all, 39 people were killed and around 100 more were wounded. Witness accounts of the attack alluded to a scene reminiscent of those in Baghdad throughout the height of the war in Iraq:
Some of the photos circulating on social media suggested a hellish scene, with bodies strewn on the ground amid burning wreckage. Others showed flames and smoke billowing out of the end of a tree-lined street guarded by police. (CNN, May 23)
Filed Under: Expert Analysis Tagged With: China, Insurrection, Urumqi, Xinjiang
Eric Jones
earned a Master of Arts in Political Science (International Relations and Foreign Comparative Politics) in United States Foreign Policy and National Security studies from Northern Illinois University in 2006. He is the co-founder and senior writer of Foreign-Intrigue.com. Eric is a former soldier in the United States Army and served two deployments to Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. Eric writes on issues related to Eurasia. His research concentrates heavily on Eastern Europe, the Post-Soviet space, Xinjiang, and Afghanistan.
Follow Eric on Twitter via @Intrigue_Jones and at his site www.Foreign-Intrigue.com.
To comment on this article please join/login.
Here's a sample of the comments on this post.
YankeePapa Thanks for the kind comments.  I agree with the largesse of your post as well. Your points on  corruption are especially intriguing.
infinitycactus YankeePapa ,
.
...Thanks.  That's why Brandon and Jack pay me the big bucks... ( I'm saving up to buy a pet tumbleweed...)
.
...I agree with your sentiment, but perhaps you can learn a more subtle form of delivery from our "Goodwill Ambassador" who went to China about a decade or so ago...
.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kDMhTVrvNB4
.
-YP-
YankeePapa infinitycactus You have an exceptional way with words. 
I think China, just now, is a bit like a kid who received his inheritance before he was ready, or worthy, of it.
Say hello to capitalism, kid- just don't look to us for rules.
Do learn how to drive. The Chinese don't know how to drive. 
The Italians are bat-shit crazy, but they know how to drive. 
The Chinese don't. 
We could start by teaching the Chinese how to drive, and see how that goes.
I think it's important to add what China is doing to the minorities. Over the past 60 years they are forcing the minorities into extinction.  They move ethnic Han into the areas in an attempt to overrun the minorities. This goes beyond a superiority complex. It is a strategic move against the region (this also happens elsewhere in China, Tibet and Yunnan are other major areas). The Uighur people are looking for their only support system to fight back against an overwhelming enemy. They do not have support of the international community, so they reach to the only people left, Islamic terrorist.  The Uighur branch of Islam is much different than we see in the Taliban and Al Qaeda. I do not believe we should define this as Islamic terrorism. They are freedom fighters with no other support for their cause.
Also it is important to note that the "police" forces involved are not their traffic cop police. Rather they are the "weaponized police". Normal Chinese cops are not armed with fire arms. Also they are much more lax in their conducting of work. However the weapon carrying police are more of a paramilitary group. Their are much more professional and strict. Also carry the weapons.
Here is an article from May 5, 2014. Weaponized police standing guard outside the train station. While during the summer young recruits will stand post, these men are armed to the teeth. This is not a normal sight in China.
http://news.hf365.com/system/2014/05/05/013947984.shtml
Here is an article from June 15, 2014. People rioting against riot police (they are most likely the Chinese version of SWAT). Note the number of dogs and men with shot guns.
http://news.uschinapress.com/2014/0615/981665.shtml
It definitely isn't the Army moving in to stop this, yet. But it definitely is bigger than your black and white patrol car.
A second note, if the US were to fight China in war, there is discussion with siding with the Uighurs for support in the war (like in Afghanistan with the Northern Alliance). Right now the US gains more by staying out of the conflict.
Sign up today for free and be the first to get the
latest news & intel from our former military journalists.
Support our Veteran writers and get the
latest news and exclusive intel.