2015-10~12
http://english.cntv.cn/2015/10/02/ARTI1443751378613521.shtml

Xinhua Insight: China stresses stability, security on Xinjiang's founding anniversary - CCTV News - CCTV.com English

Hot:
Exhibition of IPR protection
 | 
 Yuan
 | 
 Golden Era
 | 
 Four Comprehensives
 | 
 AIIB

Opinion | Panview | One Belt, One Road | Tibet | Closer to China with R.L.Kuhn
China | World | Business | Sports | Culture | Sci-Tech | Opinion | Special Reports
CCTV app for iPhone | iPad | Android Phone | I Love Africa for iOS | Android
Watch to Learn | Growing up with Chinese | Special Chinese | Travel in Chinese
CCTV-9 Docu Live | One City, One Flavor | World Heritage China | Roof of the World
Dialogue | China 24 | News Hour | Global Business | Sports Scene | Culture Express
China Video | World Video | Most Popular | Reporters | Correspondents |CCTV Interviews
Xi's speech | Military parade | Commemoration Ceremony | Patriotic songs
URUMQI, Oct. 1 (Xinhua) -- Top political advisor Yu Zhengsheng on Thursday said that long-term stability and security is the top priority in Xinjiang, stressing counterterrorism as the focus of the current work.
Yu, chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, made the remarks at a grand rally in Urumqi, the regional capital, marking the 60th anniversary of the autonomous region's founding.
Yu Zhengsheng (front), chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), addresses a grand rally marking the 60th anniversary of the founding of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region in Urumqi, capital city of northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Oct. 1, 2015. (Xinhua/Rao Aimin)
All policies and programs on economic development, people's livelihoods, reform, ethnic minorities and religion should contribute to the final goal, Yu said.
"We must be fully aware of the severe situation we are facing to maintain long-term stability in Xinjiang," Yu said. "Counterterrorism is the focus of our current work."
"The three forces (separatism, terrorism and extremism) are the biggest threats for Xinjiang and the common enemies for people of all ethnic groups. We must clench our fists tight and take the initiative to crack down on violence and terror activities strictly and lawfully and fight the three forces," Yu said.
"We must fully realize that the anti-separatism combat is a long-term, complicated and fierce one," Yu said, calling for lawful methods and an improved work mechanism to ensure stability and security, with a focus on preventing evil forces from infiltrating people's ideology.
The government will also address other social problems, he said, adding that it will balance security efforts with the need for economic development, he promised.
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, with a population of 22 million from 47 ethnic groups, celebrated its 60th anniversary on Thursday. A system of ethnic regional autonomy was established in Xinjiang when it was founded on Oct. 1, 1955.
Yu noted prominent development of Xinjiang over the past 60 years in various fields such as agriculture, farming, modern industry, logistics, tourism, infrastructure, transport, and environmental protection. He cited that the region's GDP last year was 115.6 times of that in 1955.
"The living standards for people of all ethnic groups have improved considerably... [The region] has achieved the shift from poverty to a well-off society in general, and is striding forward to an all-round well-off society," Yu said, citing the nine-year compulsory education which has covered urban and rural areas, better medical services, and the protection of culture and custom of ethnic minorities.
According to Yu, various favorable policies carried out by the Communist Party of China (CPC) have led to a notable increase in the number of officials and professionals of ethnic minorities in the region.
A report released in late September by the State Council, China's cabinet, showed that, in 1955, the number of ethnic minority officials in Xinjiang was 46,000, and the figure rose to 417,000 in 2014, which accounted for 51.4 percent of total officials in the region.
Extending greetings to all people in Xinjiang as well as those minding and supporting the region, Yu hailed their contributions to the region's development.
"The success achieved by Xinjiang over the 60 years has proven that only by firmly sticking to the leadership of the CPC, the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics and the regional autonomy system can we do the region good," Yu said.
Yu stressed safeguarding the rule of law, people's interests, ethnic unity, national unification as well as a severe crackdown on separatism, terrorism and extremism as key factors for Xinjiang's harmony and stability.
"Strengthening ethnic unity is the foundation for Xinjiang's social stability and long-term security... Efforts should be made to boost the exchange and harmony among people of all ethnic groups and build a social structure and community environment where they live, study and work together so as to increase bond and understand each other more," Yu said.
He stressed the Party's basic policies on religion, urging the promoting of lawful religions while stemming illegal and extreme ones and the crimes induced by them.
"(We should) actively guide religions to adapt to a socialist society, boost lawful religion management, cultivate a team of patriotic religious personnel and ensure the role of believers and figures in the religious circle in contributing to economic and social development," Yu said.
Regarding economic development, Yu stressed a high-quality and efficiency-oriented growth mode via the optimizing and upgrading of industrial structure, calling for modernized husbandry and a focus on textile and fashion industry, resource development and modern service sectors such as logistics and tourism.
"More efforts should be made to deepen reform and further invigorate the market and the society... while focusing on environmental protection and sticking to the path of sustainable development," Yu said, underlining strict implementation of water and energy conservation policies.
Xinjiang, a key region on the Silk Road Economic Belt, should seize the opportunities to greatly develop transportation and information technology to make itself a major window on China's opening to the West, Yu said.
Meanwhile, he said he expected employment to be boosted as a key factor for local people's improving livelihood and the region's stability, calling for better education quality to foster more local talents, precise poverty relief efforts as well as continued support from other regions.
More will be done to raise morale and unite the people of Xinjiang so that they stand firmly shoulder-to-shoulder with the Party and government to build an "iron wall" that safeguards stability and security, he said.
Yu and a central delegation arrived in Xinjiang on Sept. 25 for the celebrations of the region's 60th anniversary of founding, visiting local people and attending performances. They returned to Beijing on Thursday night.



Share this: 
Share on twitter
Share on facebook
Share on sinaweibo
Share on email




Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Instagram
Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Wechat

Climate Change Conference
G20, APEC Summits
Xi visits U.S.
Beijing 2022
Xi Attends BRICS Summit
Truth and Denial
July 7th Incident
Understanding the CPC
Li Attends 17th China-EU Leaders' Meeting
7th China-U.S. S&ED & 6th CPE
Dragon Boat Festival
The Basic Law
Beijing Bids for 2022 Winter Olympics
Xi Visits Kazakstan, Russia, Belarus
Nepal Earthquake
World Book Day
2015 Boao Forum
2015 Two Sessions
AirAsia Flight Crashed
