2015-10~12
http://www.hamiltonnews.com/news-story/6164049-islamic-state-extends-recruitment-efforts-to-china-with-new-chant/

Islamic State extends recruitment efforts to China with new chant
Britain’s Natural Environment Research Council was just looking for a name.
The final Sunday of the BNP Paribas Open, one of the biggest joint ATP-WTA...
Kanye West has asked for a 2014 conviction for attacking a photographer to...
When bankruptcy is involved, the former employee is in a weak position.
Question:
My Agreement of Purchase and Sale for a condominium unit is...

 BEIJING — The Islamic State has been recruiting far and wide for members to join its ranks on the battlefields of Iraq and Syria or elsewhere. Now those efforts are extending to China.


 The group recently posted a digital recording of a new chant in Mandarin Chinese that calls for Muslims to "wake up" and "take up weapons to fight." The chant is typical of many others released by the group, also called ISIS or ISIL.


 The chant was posted online by Al Hayat Media Center, the foreign-language media division of the Islamic State, according to an assessment Monday by the SITE Intelligence Group, which tracks the propaganda of jihadi groups.


 The chant, or nasheed, is an exhortation to rise up but does not specify a target. It could be aimed at placing China in the cross hairs. The Islamic State's leader, the cleric Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, released a recording in July 2014 in which he named China as one of many countries in which "Muslims' rights are forcibly seized."


 Some political Muslim groups, especially in Turkey, have joined international human rights advocates and other organizations in condemning China's anti-Islamic policies in the western region of Xinjiang.


 There, many Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking ethnic group that mostly practices Sunni Islam, say they are discriminated against and persecuted by the ruling ethnic Han.


 In recent years, violence has surged in Uighur areas, and the Communist Party says it faces a terrorist threat there. Chinese officials have said that security officers have seized recordings from abroad that inspire Uighurs to take up arms. Last month, Chinese officials said that security forces had used a flamethrower to force 10 "terrorists" from a cave in Xinjiang after tracking a group that officials believed to be responsible for a recent deadly coal mine attack. Security officers killed 28 people linked to the attack, official reports said.


 The Chinese recording is addressed to the "Muslim brother" who is listening, but the Islamic State kills many Muslims, including by beheading and burning victims alive.


 There is no reliable information on how many Chinese have joined the Islamic State or other armed groups in Syria to fight against the government of President Bashar Assad, whose forces have killed huge numbers of civilians.

Granite Kings provides Stoney Creek and the surrounding area with custom fabrication and...
We all want to avoid costly plumbing repairs, so Binbrook Plumbing & Heating in Binbrook, Ontario,...
Did you know that on February 9th, 2016, Save.ca hosted a Twitter Party using the hashtag...
Harvey Armstrong Ltd. sells animal food and gardening supplies to people in Binbrook, Ontario, and...
The team at Genuine Bakery & Catering in Hamilton, Ontario, are the experts in catering. Whatever...
Above & Beyond Health Care, located in Hamilton, is focused on enriching the lives of all seniors....
If you lose your job you’re likely to be upset and in shock, but Stoney Creek law firm Startek,...
Cigarettes have a bad rap for good reason. According to Health Canada, smoking negatively impacts...
The team at Joanna’s Florist in Hamilton, Ontario, understands how difficult it can be to know what...
Bed bugs. The most dreaded and, unfortunately, highly reported two words in Ontario. Hamilton’s...
The KLM Heating team in Ancaster, Ontario, has over 20 years’ experience in giving people the...
There are so many wonderful benefits and rewards to using wood, says Millgrove Wood Products in...
Howe Video provides quality, comprehensive wedding video services to its clients in Burlington and...
If you suffer from the embarrassment and discomfort of missing or severely decayed teeth, Eastgate...
Let’s deal with the grim news first. According to the Heart and Stroke Foundation, 9 out of 10...
Big Al's Pet Supercentres of Hamilton is well known for its selection of quality reptiles. They...
They know how to keep kids engaged at Le Ballon Rouge in Hamilton. One of the city’s only French...
Tanning sessions at Paradise Tan in Hamilton, Ontario, not only help you look great but also can...
The KLM Heating team in Ancaster, Ontario, knows how inconvenient and expensive a poorly...
Question:


Is everyone eligible to serve as a juror in Ontario?


Answer:


No. To be eligible to...