2015-10~12
http://www.catholic.org/news/international/middle_east/story.php?id=64637

China to join Russian forces in the battle against ISIS - Middle East - International - News - Catholic Online
China is allegedly preparing to unleash its military forces in Syria and join forces with Vladimir Putin's army to destroy ISIS.
China joins forces with Russia to eradicate ISIS threats (AFP).
Keywords: ISIS, Syria, Vladimir Putin, China in Syria, China Military, Russian Airstrike
LOS ANGELES, CA (Catholic Online) - Russia has carried out a series of destructive and deadly airstrikes against the terrorist nation IS over the last few weeks and Vladimir Putin recently sent his country's most elite special force team to destroy ISIS.China's People's Liberation Army is also allegedly preparing to join Putin's forces. A senior government member at a United Nations meeting confirmed China's plans, following several reports of military movement in the region.
The latest ISIS execution video displays the murders of six alleged "spies" from the group's current stronghold in Iraq, Fallujah. LOS ANGELES, CA (Catholic Online) - All of the featured men are accused of leaking insider information to the Iraqi army and government in ... continue reading
As the tragic Syrian civil war enters its sixth year, hope has become a thing of fantasy for many refugees trapped in a life of limbo. LOS ANGELES, CA (Catholic Online) - Since the beginning of the Syrian war more than 4.8 million Syrians have fled their homes. Now, ... continue reading
Women are discouraged from accessing the internet in India, else they may fall victim to exploitation and may stop participating in community events. LOS ANGELES, CA (Catholic Online) -  According to a Pew Research Center poll, as of 2015 only 22 percent of ... continue reading
The U.S. House of Representative voted Monday to declare that what is happening to Christians and other ethnic and religious minorities in the Middle East is genocide. Washington D.C. (CNA/EWTN News) -  H. Con. Res. 75, introduced by Reps. Jeff Fortenberry ... continue reading
Two Syrian women successfully infiltrated Raqqa, Syria with a hidden camera to give the world a peek at life under ISIS' rule. LOS ANGELES, CA (Catholic Online) - CNN's Swedish affiliate, Expressen TV commissioned the footage, which was recorded by Oum Mohammad and an ... continue reading
While deployment after deployment of United States military men and women continue to arrive and fight in Iraq, the ISIS threat remains. Meanwhile, the Obama administration has refused to send more ground troops, prompting the UK to step in. LOS ANGELES, CA (Catholic ... continue reading
Tragedy struck Turkey this weekend as a horrifying explosion ripped through the heart of Ankara, less than a month after another car bombing in the same area left 29 people dead. LOS ANGELES, CA (Catholic Online) - Saturday's suicide car bombing, carried out by Kurdish ... continue reading
According to their beliefs, ISIS militants are unable to have sex with pregnant slaves. To keep the women - and girls - from conceiving, jihadists force their slaves to take contraceptives. LOS ANGELES, CA (Catholic Online) - Thousands of the Yazidi minority have ... continue reading
A Chaldean Catholic priest has asked the U.S. State Department to characterize ISIS' treatment of Christians in the Middle East as a genocide. Father Douglas Bazi spoke to journalists at the National Press Club to call for recognition that Christians in the Middle East ... continue reading
One week before the State Department must announce if Islamic State atrocities against religious minorities in Iraq and Syria are genocide, a 278-page report has been released documenting that Christians there do face genocide. Washington D.C. (CNA/EWTN News) - "We now ... continue reading
Stay up to date with the latest news, information, and special offers
Where do the palms for Palm Sunday come from? Read More
Bet you didn't know these 10 things about St. Patrick and Ireland! Read More
Pope Francis wants to change two major Catholic laws he sees as ... Read More
Reading 1, Isaiah 42:1-7
1 Here is my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom my soul ... Read More
Psalm, Psalms 27:1, 2, 3, 13-14
1 [Of David] Yahweh is my light and my salvation, whom should I fear? ... Read More
Gospel, John 12:1-11
1 Six days before the Passover, Jesus went to Bethany, where Lazarus was, ... Read More
St. Enda March 21: Legend has him an Irishman noted for his military ... Read More
The same God whom Patrick served is still at work
Copyright 2016 Catholic Online. All materials contained on this site, whether written, audible or visual are the exclusive property of Catholic Online and are protected under U.S. and International copyright laws, © Copyright 2016 Catholic Online. Any unauthorized use, without prior written consent of Catholic Online is strictly forbidden and prohibited.
Sign up to receive your FREE Catholic Online newsletters and special offers by email.