2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/10/21/polls-show-hillarys-lead-expanding-post-debate/

Polls Show Hillary’s Lead Expanding Post-Debate | Funs.co
The mainstream media proclaimed Hillary Clinton the winner of the first Democratic debate. New polls indicate they were correct, with Hillary’s lead growing. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“Two national polls out Tuesday show former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton making significant gains against Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), her chief rival for the Democratic presidential nomination, in the wake of last week’s Democratic primary debate.
An NBC/Wall Street Journal poll finds that Clinton’s standing among Democratic primary voters has improved by 7 percentage points in one month. At the same time, Sanders has dropped 6 points and Vice President Joe Biden, who has not actually said he intends to run for president, has dropped 2 points. Clinton now has 49 percent of the vote, Sanders has 29 percent and Biden has 15 percent. No other Democratic rival captures more than 2 percent.
Without Biden in the mix, Clinton’s lead grows even wider against Sanders (58 percent to 33 percent).”*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.