2015-10~12
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/worldviews/wp/2015/12/26/china-expels-french-journalist-for-terrorism-coverage/

China expels French journalist for terrorism coverage - The Washington Post
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
BEIJING — China didn't like Ursula Gauthier's reporting — so it is kicking her out of the country.
The Chinese Foreign Ministry said in a written statement Saturday that the Beijing correspondent for French news magazine L’Obs would not be issued press credentials for 2016, effectively expelling her.
Gauthier drew Beijing's ire by writing an essay that questioned the Chinese government's rhetoric on terrorism.
In the statement, Lu Kang, a spokesperson for the Foreign Ministry, said Gauthier was no longer "suitable" for her job in China and that her reporting "emboldened" terrorists.
Chinese Foreign Ministry confirms expulsion of French journalist for her story on terrorism, more to follow pic.twitter.com/AMnljKvohd
Gauthier is the first foreign journalist to be booted from China since 2012, when Al Jazeera's Melissa Chan was forced to leave after doing a series of stories on secret prisons. Journalists for the New York Times and Bloomberg News were also denied visas after publishing prize-winning stories about the wealth of China's top leaders and their families. (Both news organizations have since been issued new visas.)
The Foreign Correspondents Club of China, the Committee to Protect Journalists and the French Embassy in Beijing have all expressed concern about the case.
Gauthier, a veteran journalist, has been in Beijing's crosshairs since November, when she wrote an essay about China's response to the Nov. 13 attacks in Paris.
The piece suggested Beijing's expression of solidarity post-Paris attacks had "ulterior motives," namely a desire to get the international support for its claim that violence in China's Xinjing Uighur Autonomous Region is linked to a global war on terrorism.
Beijing maintains that violent unrest in Xinjiang is linked to international terrorist groups and often accuses foreign governments — and foreign reporters — of having a "double standard" on terrorism.
Many foreign scholars and rights groups say that what's happening in China's far northwest is less about global jihad than China's suppression of its Uighur population.
Symptoms, root causes of terrorism should be addressed. Double standard shouldn't be allowed https://t.co/kpYOW2QSh7 pic.twitter.com/eXIOTzbNNJ
In the immediate aftermath of the Paris attacks, Chinese officials released details about a deadly attack at a coal mine in Xinjiang. China called it a coordinated terrorist attack; Gauthier's report suggested otherwise. What happened in Paris and what happened at the coal mine attacked had "nothing in common," she wrote.
The incident in Xinjiang was "an explosion of local rage," Gauthier said. "Pushed to the limit, a small group of Uighurs armed with cleavers set upon a coal mine and its Han Chinese workers, probably in revenge for an abuse, an injustice or an expropriation."
Soon after the piece was published, Gauthier was attacked in a series of stories in China's tightly controlled state-backed news media. Commenters published her photograph and address online and threatened her with violence.
Journalist Ursula Gauthier was attacked by the Chinese state media for her reporting on terrorism and Xinjiang. https://t.co/w3ieK3PgSX
The Foreign Ministry later blasted Gauthier for "hurting Chinese people's feelings with wrong and hateful actions and words." She was urged to recant and apologize; Gauthier refused.
"They want a public apology for things that I have not written," she told the Associated Press.  "They are accusing me of writing things that I have not written."
Islamic State hostage killing complicates China's terror debateChina expels al-Jazeera reporter as media relations sourChina accuses party members of support for Dalai Lama and even terrorism
We will update you when news breaks about the virus.
Success! Check your inbox for details. You might also like:
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses!
Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games!
Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve.