2015-10~12
http://www.thestatesman.com/news/world/brahma-temple-blasts-thai-military-court-indicts-2-uighurs/106187.html

The Statesman: Brahma temple blasts: Thai military court indicts 2 Uighurs
The agency attached the NCP leader's sugar mill and 290 acres of prime land worth Rs.55 crore.
The BJP questioned the propriety of Tharoor's comment, while the Congress distanced itself from the party MP's view.
The prime minister accused the opposition of spreading lies to mislead the people on the issue of reservation.
In 1949-1954, Israel airlifted more than 50,000 Yemeni Jews out of Yemen and brought them to Israel in two secret operations, but some Jews had decided to stay on.
Several short-range missiles were launched from the northeastern city of Hamhung at 3.19 pm and flew some 200 km into the East Sea by North Korea.
Obama is scheduled to meet President Raul Castro on Monday, but not retired revolutionary leader Fidel Castro, and the pair will discuss trade and political reform.
United closed the gap between City to just one point with the one-nil win at the Etihad on Sunday.
Pakistan's test captain was frank with his disappointment at his country's capitulation to arch-rivals India in the WT20.
Daikin Air-conditioning India has renewed its sponsorship deal with Delhi Daredevils for the second year in a row for the Indian Premier league to start from April 9.
All the BSE sectoral indices closed with advances, with Capital Goods index leading the gains, up 2 per cent.
As per the report, the growth prospects for 2016-17 would be highly dependent on domestic drivers of growth.
Under the codeshare agreement, the airline will operate two daily non-stop flights from Mumbai and New Delhi to Amsterdam Airport Schiphol.
With the election of Htin Kyaw as President, well might the country boast its first Head of State without a military background. This is a watershed development by any reckoning.
An American student in North Korea has been sentenced by the country’s Supreme Court to 15 years’ hard labour for allegedly stealing a propaganda banner from a hotel.
The BJP claims that it is a party of nationalists and that all Leftists are anti-nationals. Almost on a parity of reasoning, those who support Kanhaiya Kumar are ‘anti-nationals’.
The court asked the MCD to file affidavit by March 29.
Gulzar says he feels safe when he sees the youngsters raising their voice in dissent.
Delhi Police has accessed further footage and obtained a close-up image of the man.
The latest sting video shows a TMC MP accepting money.
The officials spoke with the people and reviewed security arrangements.
The team won the marketing challenge at Solvay Business Game in Belgium.
The MLAs were unhappy with the shifting of rail wagon factory to Andhra.
Cricket match between India and Pak sees the level of madness raised to an impossible pitch.
There are large parts of Assam that have yet to see any development.
March 21 is being observed as the World Poetry Day globally.
A weak gut is the result of poor dietary diversity.
Cricket match between India and Pak sees the level of madness raised to an impossible pitch.
Basanta is celebrated with much joy all over the country.
Pug marks are used for tracking rogue animals which may be a danger to mankind.
Bollywood's Rocky Handsome is all set for its clash with the much-awaited Hollywood superhero flick Batman vs Superman.
But the lead star John
The actress took to Twitter to share a selfie in which she is seen waiting for the metro.
A military court in Thailand on Tuesday charged two ethnic Uighur Chinese men with carrying out a bombing at the hugely popular Erawan Brahma temple here that left 20 people dead and more than 120 injured.
The two suspects - identified as Bilal Mohammad and Mieraili Yusufu - were indicted on 10 charges connected to the blast in August at the temple, one of the most popular tourist attractions in the Thai capital.
The charges include conspiracy to explode bombs and commit premeditated murder, their lawyer Chuchart Kanpai said.
It is not clear what all they have been charged with.
The two men - described as ethnic Uighurs from China's Muslim-majority Xinjiang region - were tried at a military court on an army base here. They were held at an army base since their arrests in late August and early September.
The blast at the temple was one of the most deadly acts of violence in Bangkok in decades.
Police believe Bilal was the person who was seen on CCTV camera footage wearing a yellow T-shirt who sat down on a bench at the outdoor temple, took off a black backpack and then left it behind and walked away.
Bilal was arrested on August 29 with a fake Turkish passport under the name of Adem Karadag from an apartment on the outskirts of Bangkok.
Yusufu was arrested on September 1 near the Thai-Cambodia border, carrying a Chinese passport.
Nationals from China, Hong Kong, the UK, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore were among the foreigners killed in the attack.
The twin blasts, which the government believed was aimed at damaging economy and tourism, occurred in a space of minutes outside the temple dedicated to Lord Brahma.
The temple is located on a main road through Bangkok's commercial hub and is surrounded by three major shopping malls.