2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/10/10/northern-arizona-university-fight-leads-to-mass-shooting/

Northern Arizona University Fight Leads To Mass Shooting | Funs.co
Just one week after a mass shooting at a college in Oregon, we have yet another… this time at Northern Arizona University. Cenk Uygur, John Iadarola (Think Tank), Ben Mankiewicz (Turner Classic Movies), and Jimmy Dore, (The Jimmy Dore Show Podcast), hosts of the The Young Turks, break it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“A shooter opened fire early Friday at Northern Arizona University’s Flagstaff campus, killing one person and injuring three others, the school and police said.
Police identified the shooter as 18-year old freshman Steven Jones. The school’s police chief, Greg Fowler, said that Jones shot four male students around 1:20 a.m. after an altercation in a parking lot near the Mountain View Hall, a building that houses most of the university’s 23 fraternities and sororities. The Delta Chi fraternity confirmed that some of its members were involved in the attack.”*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.