2015-10~12
http://beetips.blogspot.com/2015/12/criminal-news-headlines-national-news_219.html

News-Tips-Tricks: Criminal News Headlines | National News - Yahoo India News
Oltre a notiziari generali, troverete trucchi e suggerimenti vari per migliorare l'approccio quotidiano con le varie tecnologie.
Le informazioni pubblicate provengono sia da esperienze personali che da newsletter informatiche specifiche del settore.

Latest crime news headlines from Yahoo India News. Find top stories, videos, pictures & in-depth coverage on crime news from national news section.
A Kuwaiti appeals court upheld one death sentence and overturned another in the case of an Islamist suicide bombing at a mosque in June, Kuwaiti newspaper al-Qabas reported on Sunday. A criminal court in September had sentenced seven defendants to death in the case. Fourteen other defendants were acquitted at the time.
By Alexander Besant NEW YORK (Reuters) - Thousands of merrymakers dressed like Santa Claus and his elves took to the streets of New York on Saturday for the annual pub crawl known as SantaCon, a Yuletide rite with a reputation for inspiring bad behavior among the revelers. While some bar owners reported respectful crowds of red-and-white clad partiers, social media was alive with photos of Santas mooning motorists, passed out in doorways, and urinating on the street. "We had a safe event for everybody, and I'm happy about that because in the past, SantaCon has had a bad reputation," said Virgil, whose bar hosted more than 1,000 Santas and elves as an official SantaCon destination.
Nearly 90 people were killed during Friday's clashes in the Burundian capital, the army said on Saturday, the worst outbreak of violence in Burundi since a failed coup in May. Blasts and gunfire echoed around Bujumbura for most of Friday and residents said officials spent the day collecting bullet-riddled bodies from city streets. Army spokesman Gaspard Baratuza said gunmen had attacked three military sites in Bujumbura, kindling a day of clashes across the city. Unrest in Burundi, which started in April when President Pierre Nkurunziza announced plans for a third term in office, has unnerved a region still volatile two decades after the genocide in neighbouring Rwanda.
By Tom Miles GENEVA (Reuters) - Two Syrian men were arrested in Geneva on Friday after traces of explosives were found in their car, Switzerland's attorney general said on Saturday, confirming media reports. Criminal proceedings have been opened against the two under a law prohibiting groups such as al Qaeda and Islamic State, a statement from the attorney general's office said. The two men, who had two valid Syrian passports, had been stopped by Geneva gendarmes, he said.
U.S. President Barack Obama on Saturday hailed the landmark climate accord reached in Paris as strong and historic, calling it the best chance to save the planet from the effects of global climate change. "Today the American people can be proud because this historic agreement is a tribute to American leadership. Over the past seven years, we've transformed the United States into the global leader in fighting climate change," Obama said.
By Alana Wise CORONA, Calif. (Reuters) - With tears in her eyes, Mohammad Halisi's young daughter asked her father "Why are we bad?" after seeing reports that a Muslim couple killed 14 people in California last week, and wanted to know whether she should hide the fact she is Muslim from others at her school. Recalling the conversation while choking back his own tears, the 61-year-old father said he felt frustrated that he and his family were being held responsible for the actions of people he branded "a couple of idiot terrorists." "It's getting to a point where you have to hide who you are," Halisi said on Friday night at the Islamic Society of Corona-Norco mosque where leaders and law enforcement met to address negative perceptions of the Muslim community.