2015-10~12
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/policies-politics/article/1880835/china-security-forces-kill-28-terrorists-blamed-deadly

Chinese forces kill 28 ‘terrorists’ blamed for deadly Xinjiang coal mine attack | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
One other fugitive surrendered after 56-day manhunt for the local gang members, who were said to be under command of a ‘foreign extremist group’, mainland media reports
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Chinese security forces in western Xinjiang killed 28 “terrorists” at the end of a 56-day manhunt for members of an extremist group that left 16 people dead after an attack on a coal mine in September, state media has reported.
The official Tianshan Net news portal affiliated with the Chinese Communist Party in Xinjiang reported details on Friday about the security offensive that was first revealed last Saturday.
The news portal report said police had called on tens of thousands of members of public - both Han Chinese and members of other ethnic groups - to help search for the fugitives across 1,300 square kms of hilly terrain.
One member of the gang had surrendered, while the remaining 28 were killed, the report said.
“After 56 days of continuous fighting, Xinjiang destroyed a violent terrorist gang directly under the command of a foreign extremist group," the news portal report said.
“Aside from one person who surrendered, 28 thugs were killed.”
The news portal reported the government saying that a foreign extremist group had instructed a local “terrorist” group, led by two Uygurs, to carry out the September 18 attack at the Sogan coal mine in Aksu, in which 16 people, including five policemen, were killed, and 18 others injured.
State media has reported that the local terrorists had been watching religious extremist videos since 2008, and had contacted the overseas extremists six times before the attack and another three times afterwards to ask for help in evading capture.
Radio Free Asia, which first reported the attack on the coal mine about two months ago, had said that at least 50 people had died.
On Saturday, the day after a series of terrorist attacks in Paris killed 129 people, the Chinese government confirmed for the first time that a “terrorist” attack had occurred in Xinjiang in September.
A report published on an official social media account, managed by the Ministry of Public Security, said that police in the far west area of Xinjiang had successfully killed those responsible for the coal mine attack.
Saturday’s statement was published with a few photographs of the manhunt, but no details were provided.
A few of the pictures were later removed from the internet.
Xinjiang, which is home to the mostly Muslim Uygur people and Han Chinese, has seen hundreds of people killed in violence across the region in the past, which is blamed by Beijing on separatists and extremists.
Exiled Uygur groups and human rights activists say repressive government policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam and Uygur culture, have provoked the unrest - a claim that Beijing denies.