2015-10~12
http://dailymessenger.com.pk/2015/12/14/china-rights-lawyer-pu-zhiqiangs-trial-ends-amid-scuffles/

China rights lawyer Pu Zhiqiang’s trial ends amid scuffles – Daily Messenger
Beijing, Dec.14: There have been scuffles outside a courtroom in Beijing as one of China’s most prominent human rights lawyers was put on trial.
Pu Zhiqiang is accused of “inciting ethnic hatred” and “picking quarrels and provoking trouble”.
The trial ended with no verdict announced, his family has told reporters.
Police scuffled with foreign journalists, diplomats and protesters who were barred from entering.
Mr Pu, who is in court over comments made on social media, is the latest to be tried in a crackdown on lawyers, dissidents and those accused of corruption. The lawyer faces up to eight years in prison if convicted.
Mr Pu’s family said he had pleaded not guilty to all charges. His wife was allowed to attend the trial.
Dragged away
The court has not said when it will announce the verdict. The BBC’s John Sudworth says that given the government’s tight control of the courts, there is almost no chance of an acquittal and Mr Pu probably faces a lengthy spell in prison.
Mr Pu had posted several messages on microblogging platform Weibo questioning the authorities’ “excessively violent” crackdown on Uighurs in the restive Xinjiang region.
He also alleged the Chinese Communist Party was an untruthful party, and mocked government rhetoric over the Diaoyu/Senkaku islands which are also claimed by Japan.
Mr Pu has been in detention since May 2014, after he attended an event to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square crackdown. He participated in the Tiananmen protests as a student.
His family told reporters that although the lawyer had lost a lot of weight and his hair had turned grey, he appeared to be in good health and had an alert mind.
In his final remarks in court Mr Pu thanked his friends as well as the detention centre which “treated me well”, and added that he was willing to apologise if his posts had ever harmed anyone, said his lawyer Shang Baojun.
Outside the court, a small group of Mr Pu’s friends and supporters held a protest on Monday morning. A number of them were taken away by police, and among them at least one woman who was dragged away from the scene.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *