2015-10~12
http://www.thedailysheeple.com/9-knife-wielding-attackers-killed-50-miners-in-china_102015

9 Knife Wielding Attackers Killed 50 Miners in China | The Daily Sheeple
While the media obsesses over the recent mass shooting in Oregon, and once again calls for more gun control in the United States, they’ve largely ignored a very telling story out of China. In a country where it’s nearly impossible for the average citizen to attain a privately owned firearm, mass killings are still a problem.
On September 18th, a coal mine in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region was attacked by 9 knife wielding assailants. The Chinese authorities are blaming the incident on Uyghur separatists, since most of their victims were of Chinese descent. The attackers raided the facility, killed the guards, and proceeded to enter the dormitories where the workers were sleeping before murdering them as well. Several policemen who responded to the attack were also killed, and the officers who survived had to flee the scene when they were chased by the assailants. All told, about 50 people were murdered and 50 more were injured.
And this isn’t the first time that this has happened in China. This is just what happens in a society with very few privately owned firearms. Human beings are smart, even when they’re acting crazy. If you take away their means to lash out at society, they’ll always find another way.

We encourage you to share and republish our reports, analyses, breaking news and videos (Click for details).
Joshua Krause is a reporter, writer and researcher at The Daily Sheeple. He was born and raised in the Bay Area and is a freelance writer and author. You can follow Joshua’s reports at Facebook or on his personal Twitter. Joshua’s website is Strange Danger .
Ban all knives and miners in china. That would be what the liberals and regressives would say.
Work at Home~Follow this guide to make $97/hour…I just purchased themselves a McLaren F1 when I got my check for $19993 this past 4 weeks and just over 17 thousand lass month . this is really the nicest-work Ive had . I began this 10-months ago and straight away started making more than $97… p/h .learn the facts here now .
gbt…….
➤➤➤➤ http://GoogleCyberTechHomeJobsEmploymentPrime/get/chance/top…. ✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱✱
It was nine well versed sword fighters who were responsible for that carnage over in China and that said it can’t be compared to the gun problem in America where one lone madman with no training at all can cause as much carnage as nine well trained swordsmen.
Ah so grasshopper. The miners should’ve been armed. And the lone madman you refer to was mentally ill…something the lobs here never address in their zeal to rob us of our second amendment rights.
Why should people haft to be armed when they are working it would be better to not let evil groups spring up in the first place. This is 2015 and your talking like we are living in 1700? Your right he was mentally ill and that’s said its sick that someone like that has free access to the tools to cause all that senseless carnage.
Ironically knives and forks were once banned in China as the Emperor at the time was worried about being killed so they invented chop sticks and that fat harmless ceramic spoon for soup.
This article is extremely biased because it fails to look at the true facts. First off we are talking about nine well trained swashbuckling sword fighters who executed a very well sought out plan to cause as much harm as possible and as a result fifty human beings needlessly perished. This cannot be compared to the events in America where one out of shape psychopath can be responsible for as many deaths as nine highly trained sword fighters in China.
I CAN say this. After what may have been the first mass shooting at a school, the “tower shooter” at the University of Texas, law enforcement tetified that armed citizens forced the crazed sniper to keep his head down undoubtedly lowering the number of victims. Whaaat, one guy with a bolt action rifle, the very ones liberals keep saying are the only guns necessary for citizens to own, caused all that carnage??!!! Yup, and one guy with a gallon of gas and a match set fire to the Happyland Social Club, killing 87. And, he wasn’t even a highly trained gas station attendant. He was, however, a “refugee”, just like the Boston Marathon bombers(another case where no gun was used) and thousands who Obama wants to bring here from the Middle East. Go figure. Facts must suck for you liberal trolls.
Funny these problems are almost unheard of up here in Canada whereas America has problems every single day. Not only that you assume i am a democrat supporter when i don’t support ether party and worse still you called me a liberal troll when in reality i don’t subscribe to any wing.
First, I never mentioned democrats. Second, your posts speak volumes about your liberal positions. Third, Canada has ten percent of the population that lives in the U.S. and, therefore, should only have ten percent of the crime. Fourth, since you are Canadian, why are you sticking your big lefty nose into someone elses business??!!! I have never presumed to tell you Canadians how to run YOUR country. Fifth, after millions of Canadians ignored your gun registration scheme, it had to be repealed because your confused liberal government would never have been able to prosecute everyone. LMAO
Unfortunately nothing can protect the people from an evil force that is light years more advanced than they are and the very fact that America has just forced their draconian copyright laws onto Canada via the TPP only shows how corrupt this world really is. Our freedom of speech/expression is gone because the TPP removes the fair use clause from the copyright law making it impossible for people to blog on news issues. Fan-art will also be criminalized as well as parody and satire. In fact people wont be able to say or do anything on the internet once this thing becomes law. Only the evil negaverse minions would treat people like this and that said this world sucks big time.
well,sounds like the result of a government that’s too large&strong&out of control; wouldn’t you say?
Their was one in Europe that cold bloodedly murdered 77 innocent people in one day so don’t go telling me that guns aren’t the problem because they most certainly are.
And in the middle east they put on explosive vest when madman want to kill they will kill.
Thank goodness most people have more common sense than that insanity. That is why its a very dangerous thing to allow droves of low IQ immigrants to come into Europe, Asia, or North America. Because people with low IQ are hard to assimilate into society and are liable to fall for absurd religious ideologies.
It was Norway, an effectively disarmed society. The shooter further isolated the incident by carrying it out on an Island that is fairly hard to reach in short time.
Bury the truth all you will nothing will change the facts that military weapons should never be in the hands of the general public heck their shouldn’t even be a military on this planet.
Truth is, it would have taken only 1 person with a gun to stop the massacre., and did actually. Get over yourself, you don’t figure that prominently in the grand schema….
You know nothing about the grand scheme of the universe so its best not to assume that you know about my divine destiny.
And yet, one more Progressive who thinks they’re bigger than God. Isn’t that exactly what these disillusioned shooters believe? That they should have control over other people’s lives?
Only thing that made any sense from this troll is that “anus” is in it’s name.
Actually its the conservative Christians that caused virtually all the worlds problems including two world wars because they believe they are going to get sucked up into Jesus’s vacuum cleaner.
So you got nothing then? You certainly don’t know your history, but I find it interesting you are trying to demonize the Christian folk. Fact is, they have fairly intact morals, unlike the baby killer abortionists. Are you one of those?
Truth be told they have the weirdest moral system imaginable example like you say they continuously rant about abortion but at the same time they care less about the poor, stick up for big business, rant against transgenders, and on top of all that they support the military industrial complex to boot. Worse still they promote two evil beings that have been trying to usurp the Creators throne for over 30 thousand years and not only that the church uses the most extreme fear tactics imaginable to scare people into becoming converts in order to fleece them of their hard earned resources.
Not including war, government’s between the years 1900 and 1999 killed over 174 Million people.
The largest single death tolls are from government’s that would be classified as atheist.
Hopefully you don’t have a long future and also don’t procreate other little ignorant offspring into this world!
You are an extremely dumb ignorant person! What are you going to do when someone breaks into your house?! Use verbal insults to hurt them?! Dumbass!!!
Go back to the negaverse from whence you came you ignorant dim witted moron.
You are very ignorant… More people are killed by car accidents than by guns! And more gang members kill each other with guns every weekend, than mass.shootings for a whole year! More conceal and carry people have saved more lives a year, than innocent people being killed by mass murders in a year!!!!!!!
Its not just mass events that are the problem single lives add up to and that doesn’t even count on all the senseless accidents that were totally preventable. Lawn darts were banned years ago because so many children were killed by them and many other things have been recalled due to safety concerns. That said no one should be able to go to the store and purchase a military grade weapon or anything near it for that matter.
When the Constitution was written, all arms were essentially military grade.
The constitution was written by Saturn worshiping occultists but no one seems to realize this fact. Not only that Americas healthcare system sucks. Not only that your copyright laws are insane and worse yet the American establishment is forcing it on Canada via the TPP. Even the very fact they call the nation America is very disturbing because that implies control over two whole continents.
Actually, the full name is The United States of America. Since no other country has included “of America” in their name, they shouldn’t piss and moan that ours got shortened. Also, America can not force Canada into a trade agreement. Since your too lazy and ignorant to gripe at your own government, you have no right to complain about anyone elses. Grow some gonads and fix Canada. We “AMERICANS” will just follow your brilliant lead.
With a name like that Its obvious you are a few moldy oranges short of a trashcan full.
In all seriousness, I think they are. Look at all the eugenics supported by the likes of Bill Gates and others (I’m drawing a blank right now, but I know there are others) and look at the Georgia Guidestones. Keep humanity under 500 million people. I think someday people will essentially become illegal to some extent.
yes;unfortunately you are right. Margaret Sanger (the patriarch of the planned parenthood philosophy-kill “em all?) was a eugenics believer,and whoever supports the same bullshit: hillary,barack,al gore,and many other lovely people! Yeah, I don’t know why noone has trashed those accursed Georgia guidestones…peace.
Sanger’s vision was to eliminate ” human weeds” through abortion. Those who needed, in her evil, racist mind, to be gotten rid of included blacks, Slavs, the mentally deficient, etc……… And, the other shrew, Hillary Clinton, openly stated that she considered herself a progressive like Margaret Sanger. That alone should end her White House aspirations.
They’re some scary-ass people,eh? Hey that was a nod to our canadian friends for standing up to the oligarchs, as revealed by their gun registration failure. Perhaps people will defy the internet censorship rules? (I don’t suppose they’re lawful,but I’m not sure. I know they will not be lawful here, according to our constitution. Sanger’s etc. viewpoints remind me of some german guy back in the 30’s.
unlike the USA , China will deal with this problem effectively. The muslim terrorists can knife a MILLION Chinese to death-big deal-they have almost two thousand MILLION people. In the end China will win and the muslims will be extinct.
I demand that all barber’s chairs be banned. You can really mess up someone if you hit them with a barber’s chair.
That’s the problem right there believing that Jesus aka the son of Cronus is going to help humanity. Secondly what you are suggesting there does nothing but escalate the situation by creating a never ending arms race. You say don’t blame an object and that said do you think people should be able to own whatever they want example a battleship or fighter jet?
“Arms” is the key word. Cannons and whatnot are “Ordnance” and excluded. Battleships and fighter jets are also not Arms.
I was making a point but you people seem to be living in a dream world and not a very nice one ether.
Join Over One Million Monthly Readers
And Wake The Flock Up!