2015-10~12
http://www.republicofmining.com/2015/10/02/

02 | October | 2015 | Republic of Mining
LONDON — Shares of Glencore, the giant Swiss-based mining and trading company, may have recovered from a panic sell-off this week, but few analysts consider the company out of danger.
Glencore still has a heavy debt load, and investors remained worried about global economic trends and some management missteps. And the slowing Chinese economy is hurting demand for many of the commodities, like copper, that the company not only mines but also heavily trades.
Those factors have sent the stock reeling in trading in London this summer, from 289 pence in early June to a 52-week low of 68.52 pence on Monday.
“There is clearly a very strong degree of fear in the market more broadly associated with China,” said Paul Gait, a mining analyst at Bernstein Research in London. Until recently, though, the company’s management, led by Ivan Glasenberg, seemed reluctant to acknowledge the severity of the situation. Continue Reading →
Oct 1 (Reuters) – – It’s a brave analyst these days who would call a bottom in the iron ore price, which makes the call for better times by 2017 from the normally cautious Australian government forecaster all the more interesting.
While any forecast for iron ore prices to rise is worth more than just a glance, there are a few things to note about the Australian Department of Industry’s Resource and Energy Quarterly, published on Wednesday.
The most important is that the government forecaster isn’t calling for a dramatic rebound in iron ore, rather for modest gains.
The second is that the recovery isn’t expected until 2017, with next year expected to show further losses for the steel-making ingredient. The report projected that iron ore will rise to average $60.40 a tonne in nominal terms in 2017, up from $51.20 in 2016 and $52.90 this year.
By way of comparison, the department’s June quarter report forecast iron ore would average $54.40 a tonne in 2015 and $52.10 in 2016, but didn’t provide forecasts for further out years. Continue Reading →
The jewellery around your neck and on your fingers is still being dug out of the earth by slave children facing extreme danger, two new hard-hitting reports have revealed.
Amnesty International has released a stark warning that the global diamond market is about to be flooded with ‘blood diamonds’ prised from mines by children as young as 11. Continue Reading →
CEO Ivan Glasenberg struggles to reassure investors amid a rout in commodity prices
LONDON—The morning he closed the biggest mining deal in history, Ivan Glasenbergpulled out a map dotted with mines around the world.
The hard-charging chief executive of Glencore PLC was jubilant. It was May 3, 2013, and his trading company had just merged with Xstrata, one of the world’s biggest mining companies, in a $29.5 billion deal. And he had won a boardroom struggle to stay in control.
The map detailed his sprawling new empire of mines for everything from copper to coal to zinc. He had even circled competitors’ mines that he could add to his collection.
“Damn sure I’m going to be opportunistic,” he told Wall Street Journal reporters and editors at his London headquarters. “We’ll buy anything if it makes economic sense.”
Then he struck a note of caution: “Will commodity prices stay strong” and “justify putting this much money into an asset-rich company? Have we done the right thing? This is my biggest fear.” Continue Reading →
After 29 men died in his company’s mine, Don Blankenship is fighting to stay out of prison. But he’s already won the battle to convert coal country to his brand of conservative politics.
THE PEOPLE OF the Kentucky and West Virginia borderland, where Don Blankenship’s family has lived for generations, have always clustered, out of tradition and necessity, along river valleys and in low-lying hollows amid the nubby Appalachian peaks. The winding roads there, crumbling under the weight of overloaded Mack trucks, are lined with trailers like the one Blankenship grew up in, many with “Friend of Coal” placards in their windows.
But at the peak of his 18-year reign as the CEO of coal giant Massey Energy—as if in a symbolic nod to his rise from hardscrabble roots—Blankenship erected a four-story villa that evoked a fairy-tale castle on a Kentucky mountaintop. It was a short helicopter ride from his primary home, a gated estate on the other side of the Tug Fork River. From a white tower atop his Massey-owned mountain retreat, Blankenship could look out on the coal yards and misty hollows of West Virginia’s Mingo County like a king surveying his domain.
Blankenship earned his way to this summit by reducing many of the nearby mountaintops to heaps of gravel and harvesting the bituminous seams inside them to nearly triple his company’s revenue. Continue Reading →
A report from the Department of Industry Innovation and Science’s Office of the Chief Economist states the bottom of the mining bust is here.
The report outlined an overall drop of around 12 per cent in Australia’s resources export earnings year on year, noting the commodity price decline playing a large part in the overall export earnings decline.
However the Department is still positive on the industry, recognising the shift from a capital and investment heavy construction boom into a period of production.
“Australian producers were well-positioned to meet the projected growth in demand as production starts to increase following a long period of investment,” the report said.
“The Australian resources and energy sector is transitioning decisively into the production phase of the resources boom,” the Department’s Chief Economist Mark Cully added. Continue Reading →
ATHENS (Reuters) – A Canadian company appealed to Greece’s top court on Friday to overturn a ban on its plans to develop a gold mine in a forested area of northern Greece, in a case widely seen as a test of the leftist government’s approach to foreign investment.
Vancouver-based Eldorado’s venture to extract gold and other ores on the verdant Halkidiki peninsula is seen as one of the top investments in a country racked by a debt crisis since the end of 2009. The company has put in more than $600 million since 2012 and plans to invest another $1 billion in its quest for gold, copper and zinc at two other sites.
But a day before resigning to call a general election, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras’ government revoked Eldorado’s permit for the Halkidiki mine in mid-August, citing environmental grounds, in a move that showed Greece remains a risky bet for investors.
Eldorado then suspended all its activities at the mine and made most of its 1,300 workers temporarily redundant. Continue Reading →
New supply from Gina Rinehart’s Roy Hill iron ore mine will contribute to a slump below $40 a metric ton next year, according to Citigroup Inc., which said lower steel output in China would also hurt the commodity.
The project in Australia’s ore-rich Pilbara is poised to start shipments in October, and its expansion toward annual output of 55 million tons will probably have a large impact on prices, analysts including Ivan Szpakowski said in a report. Surging production will combine with steel-output cuts in China to push prices below $40 in the first half, Citigroup said.
Iron ore’s retreated 20 percent this year on rising low-cost output and faltering demand growth in China, and the addition of the new cargoes from Roy Hill to the global seaborne market may add to oversupply.
Roy Hill Holdings Pty Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Barry Fitzgerald told reporters in China last week the project is on target to achieve full capacity over 15 months. Citigroup described the new mine in the report on Monday as an “impending whale” that would ship almost all of its output to China. Continue Reading →
MARINDUQUE, PHILIPPINES—The Philippines has suffered numerous disasters from its mining industry over the decades, creating a legacy of health problems that continue to the present day. Now there is a proposal to reopen one foreign-owned mine with a checkered history, and the backlash from activists who are trying to stop it.
When a typhoon or heavy rain hits Marinduque island, many residents along the Mogpog River are evacuated to higher ground.
That is because the Philippine government says an upstream dam that holds back toxic waste from an abandoned copper mine is deteriorating and could overflow or burst, just like it did in 1993.
When that happened, the river was silted over with heavy metals and other debris, or tailings, from the mine. Farmer George Hayno, 53, lives alongside a branch of the Mogpog, and he said the polluted river cost him his right foot.
He said he used to walk back and forth across the river. In 2012 he noticed a cut on his foot that would not heal. A doctor determined it was infected with arsenic and needed to be amputated. Continue Reading →
In a predictable display of stakeholder democracy and sustainable development, native leaders, environmentalists, governments and industry all participated in a historic breakthrough this week – an agreement to build a pipeline carrying tar sands oil from Alberta through the Rockies and the British Columbia interior to the Pacific Ocean, from where tankers will deliver the oil to China and beyond. In this $15-billion pipeline play, the parties to the agreement committed to the creation of an energy corridor that would also transport natural gas to an LNG terminal on the coast.
All the stakeholders played their prescribed part in this megaproject. The natives and the corporate leaders spent years in hard-bargaining, eliminating roadblocks through patient negotiations that obtained buy-ins from the many native bands along the route. The government provided the financial concessions needed to secure the development and jobs it invariably touts. And the environmentalists played the role of fools.
This 1.1 million-barrel-a-day oil pipeline and LNG complex – proposed by native-run Eagle Spirit Energy – could morph into an even bigger industrial development. The company is also contemplating multi-billion investments in an upgrader or refinery, in a power transmission line and in marine terminal port development to leverage the opportunities in its energy corridor. Continue Reading →
The Globe and Mail is Canada’s national newspaper with the second largest broadsheet circulation in the country. It has enormous influence on Canada’s political and business elite.
The government of Newfoundland and Labrador says there is as much as 30 billion barrels of oil equivalent that is expected to be found in an unexplored area of its deep-water offshore, as the province looks for billion-dollar drilling commitments from international oil companies to expand its production.
In an telephone interview from St. John’s, Ed Martin, chief executive officer of provincially owned Nalcor Energy, said the province’s Flemish Pass area ranks as one of the top undeveloped areas in the world, particularly as companies such as Royal Dutch Shell PLC turn away from risky ventures in the Arctic.
The province’s premier, Paul Davis, released an assessment by French geophysical firm, Beicip-Franlab, that estimates that an 11-parcel block currently being auctioned in the Flemish Pass has the potential to contain 12 billion barrels of crude and 113 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. Beicip-Franlab based that estimate on seismic and satellite data collected by Nalcor and private sector partners that conducted a four-year, $240-million exploration program. Continue Reading →
The death toll in a knife attack orchestrated by alleged “separatists” at a coal mine in northwestern China’s troubled Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region has climbed to at least 50 people—including five police officers—with as many as 50 injured, according to local security officials who say nine suspects are on the run.
The attack occurred on Sept. 18, when a group of knife-wielding suspects set upon security guards at the gate of the Sogan Colliery in Aksu (in Chinese, Akesu) prefecture’s Bay (Baicheng) county, before targeting the mine owner’s residence and a dormitory for workers.
When police officers arrived at the mine in Terek township to control the situation, the attackers rammed their vehicles using trucks loaded down with coal, sources said.
Three sources, including a ruling Communist Party cadre from a local township government, told RFA’s Uyghur Service in recent days that at least 50 people were killed and as many as 50 injured in the attack—with most casualties suffered by the mine’s largely majority Han Chinese workers. Continue Reading →
In 12 of 16 past cases in which a rising power has confronted a ruling power, the result has been bloodshed.
When Barack Obama meets this week with Xi Jinping during the Chinese president’s first state visit to America, one item probably won’t be on their agenda: the possibility that the United States and China could find themselves at war in the next decade. In policy circles, this appears as unlikely as it would be unwise.
And yet 100 years on, World War I offers a sobering reminder of man’s capacity for folly. When we say that war is “inconceivable,” is this a statement about what is possible in the world—or only about what our limited minds can conceive? In 1914, few could imagine slaughter on a scale that demanded a new category: world war.
When war ended four years later, Europe lay in ruins: the kaiser gone, the Austro-Hungarian Empire dissolved, the Russian tsar overthrown by the Bolsheviks, France bled for a generation, and England shorn of its youth and treasure. A millennium in which Europe had been the political center of the world came to a crashing halt.
The defining question about global order for this generation is whether China and the United States can escape Thucydides’s Trap. Continue Reading →
From London to New York to Hong Kong, the frantic question kept coming: could this be another Lehman?
But nowhere did it cause more alarm than inside Glencore Plc — the Swiss commodities giant that had suddenly found itself at the epicenter of a global panic on Monday.
What began that morning in London, with a sudden plunge in Glencore’s share price, cascaded across oceans and time zones and left the company’s billionaire chief executive, Ivan Glasenberg, scrambling to calm anxious shareholders, creditors and trading partners.
Days later, even as Glencore regained most of the $6 billion of shareholder wealth erased in a few hours, many investors wondered if Glasenberg can hold the markets at bay.
Few market players, including people close to Glencore, are able to pinpoint why a blue-chip member of the FTSE-100 Index — even one that had been under pressure from sliding commodities prices — lost almost a third of its value in a blink. And that, investors worry, suggests this could all happen again. Continue Reading →
TIMMINS – Aboriginal communities and their role in the future of the Ring of Fire was the focus of a presentation to business leaders in Timmins Thursday.
Glen Nolan, a former chief of the Missanabie Cree First Nation and vice-president of aboriginal affairs for Noront Resources, was the guest speaker of a luncheon hosted by the Timmins Chamber of Commerce.
Noront is a significant player in the Ring of Fire. The company owns 65% of the mining claims within that James Bay lowland region.
With the First Nations in the area holding a great deal of power over the future of the project, Nolan said it is vital that companies like Noront go about handling their relationship with these communities properly.
“It’s not as simple as going into these territories and expecting the communities to open their doors. There has been many years of promises made by governments and by resource companies that have not been fulfilled,” said said Nolan to the chamber members. Continue Reading →