2015-10~12
http://voiceofvienna.org/?p=45522

China rights lawyer gets suspended jail sentence | Voice of Vienna
BEIJING: A Beijing court has convicted a prominent Chinese human rights lawyer for online comments, giving him a suspended jail sentence, state television said.
Pu Zhiqiang has been found guilty of “inciting ethnic hatred” and “picking quarrels” on his social media posts.
The court sentenced him to three years in prison but also said the sentence would be suspended.
He is the latest to be tried in a crackdown on dissidents in China.
Mr Pu was facing a maximum sentence of eight years in prison.
It remains unclear if he would be freed from detention immediately. Correspondents say that the sentencing could mean that he is monitored during the suspension period, with the possibility of a reduced sentence if he demonstrates good behaviour.
State news agency Xinhua reported on its microblog that during his sentencing Mr Pu had “acknowledged the reality of his crimes”, apologised, and expressed acceptance of his sentence.
Mr Pu has been in detention since May 2014, after he posted several messages on microblogging platform Weibo critical of the government.
He had questioned the “excessively violent” crackdown on Uighurs in the restive Xinjiang region. He also alleged the Chinese Communist Party was an untruthful party, and mocked government rhetoric over the Diaoyu/Senkaku islands which are also claimed by Japan.
Supporters believe his arrest was politically motivated, as he is known for representing dissidents in sensitive human rights cases and for his vocal criticism.
Human rights group Amnesty International said in a statement that the suspended sentence was “a deliberate attempt by the Chinese authorities to shackle a champion of freedom of expression”.
Prior to the sentencing, a small group of activists and foreign journalists gathered in front of the court. There were brief scuffles with the police in a repeat of scenes seen last week during Mr Pu’s one-day trial.
A BBC team witnessed supporters and journalists being dragged away by dozens of plainclothes policemen. The BBC team was later asked to leave.
Amnesty said at least 12 activists were detained on Tuesday.
On 14 December during a brief trial, police scuffled with foreign journalists, diplomats and protesters who were barred from entering court proceedings.
His family said he had pleaded not guilty to all charges, but no verdict was given at that time. His wife was allowed to attend the trial which lasted about three hours.
His family and lawyer told reporters last week that although Mr Pu had lost a lot of weight and his hair had turned grey, he appeared to be in good health and had an alert mind.
International rights groups have described Mr Pu’s case as political persecution. Amnesty International says there have been “repeated procedural irregularities” in his prosecution.
Pu Zhiqiang represented artist Ai Weiwei in a tax evasion case that critics complained was politically motivated. He also campaigned for the eventual abolition of the labour camp system, under which suspects could be detained for years without trial.__BBC
Copyright © 2006-2014. All Rights Reserved, ePowered By Kashmir eServices.