2015-10~12
http://beetips.blogspot.com/2016/01/criminal-news-headlines-national-news_821.html

News-Tips-Tricks: Criminal News Headlines | National News - Yahoo India News
Oltre a notiziari generali, troverete trucchi e suggerimenti vari per migliorare l'approccio quotidiano con le varie tecnologie.
Le informazioni pubblicate provengono sia da esperienze personali che da newsletter informatiche specifiche del settore.

Latest crime news headlines from Yahoo India News. Find top stories, videos, pictures & in-depth coverage on crime news from national news section.
Ecuador has asked Sweden to submit a new application over the questioning of Wikileaks founder Julian Assange in London, Swedish prosecutors said on Thursday. The Swedish prosecutor said Ecuador had informed Sweden in a letter that it would conduct the interview of Assange and has asked for a list of questions the Swedish prosecutor wants answered. Assange, 44, took refuge at Ecuador's embassy in London in June 2012 to avoid extradition to Sweden, where he is wanted for questioning over allegations, which he denies, that he committed rape in 2010.
British finance minister George Osborne said on Thursday he will nominate Christine Lagarde for a second term as managing director of the International Monetary Fund, as support for her candidacy also emerged from other European countries. "At a time when the world faces what I've called a dangerous cocktail of risks, I believe Christine has the vision, energy and acumen to help steer the global economy through the years ahead," Osborne said in a statement. Lagarde has no obvious challengers and has said she is open to serving another term.
By Michael Holden LONDON (Reuters) - President Vladimir Putin probably approved a Russian intelligence operation to murder ex-KBG agent Alexander Litvinenko with radioactive polonium-210, a British inquiry into the 2006 killing in London concluded. Litvinenko, 43, an outspoken critic of Putin who fled Russia, died after drinking green tea laced with the rare radioactive isotope at London's Millennium Hotel.
Andrei Lugovoy, one of two Russians named on Thursday by a judge led-British inquiry as the killers of Kremlin critic Alexander Litvinenko, said the accusations against him were "absurd", the Interfax news agency quoted him as saying. The inquiry into the 2006 killing in London concluded that President Vladimir Putin probably approved a Russian intelligence operation to murder ex-KGB agent Litvinenko. Lugovoy, who represents the ultra-nationalist Liberal Democratic Party of Russia in the Russian parliament, called the British inquiry "a pathetic attempt by London to use a skeleton in the closet for the sake of its political ambitions".
By Thomas Escritt THE HAGUE (Reuters) - International prosecutors accused a former Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) commander on Thursday of abducting children to be raped, enslaved or trained as soldiers in its long campaign against the Ugandan government. Dominic Ongwen, himself a kidnap victim and former child soldier who rose through the ranks of Joseph Kony's rebel group, also faced accusations of slaughtering civilians among 70 charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity at the International Criminal Court (ICC). Prosecution lawyer Ben Gumpert said Ongwen had "significantly" contributed to "terrifying" attacks on four displaced persons camps into which civilians had been driven by the LRA's bloody campaign.
By Kanupriya Kapoor and Randy Fabi JAKARTA (Reuters) - The ease with which three separate groups of ethnic Uighur militants sneaked into Indonesia is ringing alarm bells for security forces, who are on high alert for a far deadlier attack than last week's assault on Jakarta. At least 10 Uighurs, who hail from China, arrived in the world's most populous Muslim nation over the last 18 months to join Islamist radicals, exposing an extensive support network ready to welcome wannabe jihadis. Police fear the same network could assist in the return of battle-hardened Indonesian Islamic State fighters from Syria, who could then launch more calculated attacks, similar to that which hit Paris last November.
By Yeganeh Torbati, Joel Schectman and Matt Spetalnick HOUSTON/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - When FBI agents arrested Bahram Mechanic in April last year, prosecutors described the Houston-based Iranian-American entrepreneur as an illegal purchasing agent for Iran's military and a threat to national security. When the 69-year-old walked out of a Houston detention center on Sunday before dawn, it was with a pardon from President Barack Obama that was negotiated secretly with Iran over months in exchange for the release of four Americans. The reversal of fortune for Mechanic and six other Iranian men who received clemency in a deal accompanying the lifting of international sanctions on Iran underscores how quickly assumptions about U.S. relations with Tehran have shifted.