2015-10~12
http://www.worldbulletin.net/haberler/166519/28-killed-in-police-raid-in-eturkestan

28 killed in police raid in E.Turkestan | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
Chinese police shot dead 28 members of a "terrorist group" in the China-occupied Muslim region of East Turkestan, state media said Friday, citing police.
The killings took place over the course of a 56-day manhunt following an attack on a colliery in Aksu in September that left 16 people dead, said the East Turkestan regional government's Tianshan web portal. One "thug" surrendered, it added.
East Turkestan, the homeland of the mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority, is often hit by unrest and China has launched a police crackdown on separatist "terrorists" it says are behind the violence.
Many Uighurs complain of discrimination and controls on their culture and religion.
Friday's official reports come after Radio Free Asia (RFA), which is funded by the US government, said that more than 50 people including five police were killed in a knife attack at a colliery in Aksu in September.
The assailants targeted security guards, the mine owner's house, and a workers' dormitory, it said.
Earlier this week RFA cited government and local sources as saying 17 suspects including seven women and children had been killed by authorities, and that a rapidly deleted public security ministry statement described the operation as a “great victory in the war on terror”.
The Tianshan portal said police mobilised around 10,000 people of "various ethnic groups" to help in the search for the coal mine attackers. 
It showed pictures of helicopters that were deployed in the hunt. "Mobsters" were shot dead during several "round-up battles", the last of them on November 12, it said.
The assault on the colliery was "a violent terrorist attack under the direct command of an overseas extremist organisation", it said.
It was carried out by a "violent terrorist group" headed by two people with apparently Uighur names, according to the report.
Beijing regularly accuses what it says are exiled Uighur separatist groups such as the East Turkestan Islamic Movement of being behind attacks in East Turkestan, which has seen a wave of deadly unrest.
But overseas experts doubt the strength of the groups and their links to global terrorism, with some saying China exaggerates the threat to justify tough security measures in the resource-rich region.
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing'
Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

UN sees need for space travel rules within 5 years

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
