2015-10~12
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/diplomacy-defence/article/1879751/china-security-chief-says-nation-must-step-de

China security chief says nation must step up ‘de-radicalisation’ efforts to fight terrorism | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Meng Jianzhu says Beijing must ensure political security is put in first place and deepen anti-separatist struggle and maintain ethnic and national unity
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
China needs to deepen its fight against separatists, intensify “deradicalisation” efforts, and increase global cooperation to defend against terrorism, says the mainland's domestic security chief.
The Chinese government said it was facing a threat from Islamist militants and separatists in the far western region of Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uygur people, where hundreds have died in unrest in the past three years or so.
Wang Yi, China's foreign minister, has already called for greater international cooperation in its fight against Xinjiang radicals in the wake of the Paris attacks last Friday.
Writing in the ruling Communist Party's official People's Daily on Tuesday, Meng Jianzhu, Secretary of the Central Politics and Legal Affairs Committee, made no direct mention of Paris, but said a country's “rise and fall” would depend on how it secured itself.
“We must ensure that political security is put in first place, tightly prevent and strike hard against the infiltrating, subversive activities of enemy forces in accordance with the law,” Meng said.
“We must deepen the anti-separatist struggle and resolutely maintain ethnic and national unity.
“Always maintain high pressure on violent terrorist activities ... further deepen deradicalisation efforts and international anti-terrorism cooperation to form a protective anti-terror security screen.”
Rights groups and exiles say Xinjiang's violence stems more from widespread resentment at Chinese controls on religion and culture rather than being committed by a well-organised militant group. China strongly denies abusing human rights in Xinjiang.
Uygurs have traditionally followed a moderate form of Islam, but many have begun adopting practices more common in Saudi Arabia or Pakistan, such as full-face veils for women, as China has stepped up security in recent years.
The government has responded by cracking down on what it sees as overt signs of strong religions belief, such as veils or beards.
Meng said that China needed to build on the legal basis of its sweeping new national security law, passed earlier this year to widespread criticism from rights groups.
Foreign business lobbies have also criticised the law, which included measures to tighten cybersecurity for key network infrastructure and information systems.
China should push forward with three other laws, on anti-terror, the management of foreign non-governmental organisations and cybersecurity, Meng added, without giving details.
The state also needed to improve its national security approval system for things such as investment projects and internet technology, Meng said.
Foreign firms fear those measures could require them to make products in China or release information to inspectors that could compromise control of intellectual property.