2015-10~12
http://www.firstpost.com/world/police-eliminates-28-terrorists-after-56-day-long-operation-in-chinas-xinjiang-province-2514648.html

Police eliminates 28 terrorists after 56-day-long operation in China's Xinjiang province - Firstpost
#China   #IS   #Manhunt   #News   #NewsTracker   #Police   #religious extremism   #Terrorism   #Terrorists   #World   #Xinjiang province  
Beijing: Chinese police have killed twenty eight members of a terrorist group responsible for a deadly attack on a coal mine that killed 16 people in restive Xinjiang province, authorities said today.
The militants were killed in a 56-day operation by police in the province, publicity department of Xinjiang said in a statement.
The hunt for the terrorists followed attack by "group of armed mobsters" on a coal mine in Baicheng county of Aksu prefecture on September 18 in which 11 civilians, three policemen and two para-police members were killed and 18 others injured, the statement said.
After the attacks on the mine the militants escaped into the mountains, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.
After the attack, police began a daily manhunt that involved more than 10,000 citizens and police searching an area of 1,300 square kms, the report said.
"By November 12, 28 members of the group had been killed during back and forth gun fights with police. One surrendered," it said.
The terrorist group was directly guided by an overseas extremists group and led by two local Xinjiang men named Musa Tohniyaz and Mamat Aysa, the statement said, adding the name of the organisation cannot be disclosed as investigations are still underway.
"In 2008, members of the group began watching videos containing messages of religious extremism, gradually reinforcing their extreme beliefs," the statement said.
Before they committed the killing, the group contacted overseas extremist organisations six times.
They contacted them again for guidance while on the run, it said.
"The overseas extremists gave orders and demanded they pledge allegiance," the statement said.
China says it is fighting terrorists in Xinjiang - hundreds have died in attacks over the past three years.
Xinjiang is home to the mostly Muslim Uyghurs who complain of heavy-handed rule and ethnic discrimination under Chinese rule.
China alleges that separatist East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), an al-Qaeda affiliated outfit has become active in the province bordering Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and Afghanistan and carrying out violent attacks in Xinjiang and other parts of the country in which scores killed and injured.
China also alleges that ETIM fighters from Xinjiang also joined the Islamic State (IS) in Syria which also recently executed a Chinese national Fan Jinghui along the Norwegian national.
Historic judgement: International Criminal Court recognises rape as war crime, convicts Jean-Pierre Bemba
Change will happen but not overnight: Groundbreaking talks begin between Barack Obama and Raul Castro in Cuba
Istanbul bombing kills four: Turkey alleges bomber had ties to Islamic State
Paris attacks: Cops find DNA on explosives, identify Abdeslam's missing 'accomplice'
Harish Rawat slams BJP for murdering democracy in Uttarakhand: Vijayvargiya takes up issue with Pranab
Having lost his girlfriend to US-based Indian groom, Chennai man to do ferocious online campaign in support of Donald Trump
Never allowed David Headley to set foot on Pakistan soil, always rolled out Red carpet for him: Nawaz Sharif
ISIS to offer ESOPs to its fighters to counter rising attrition rate
Pakistan felicitates Hafiz Saeed for inspirational leadership after David Headley said Hafiz Saeed inspired him
Feel good factor revived, Achche Din look real after Donald Trump says, “India is doing great”
ISIS in favor of chess ban, asks supporters to play ‘offline CounterStrike’ instead