2015-10~12
http://blouinnews.com/84557/story/chinese-security-forces-kill-17-xinjiang

Chinese security forces kill 17 in Xinjiang | Blouin News
Chinese security forces in the restive far western region of Xinjiang have killed 17 people, including women and children, accused of involvement in an attack at a coal mine that left at least 50 dead, U.S.-based Radio Free Asia said on Wednesday.
Hundreds of people have died in unrest in Xinjiang, home to the mostly Muslim Uighur people, and other parts of China over the past three years or so. China blames the violence on Islamist militants. The government has made no public comment about the Sept. 18 attack at the Sogan colliery in Aksu, with Radio Free Asia reporting most casualties were members of the Han Chinese majority and police blaming knife-wielding separatists. Radio Free Asia, citing Xinjiang police, said the 17 killed were all suspects in the attack, including three men believed to have been the ringleaders and their family members. Repeated calls to the Xinjiang government seeking comment went unanswered. "I heard from colleagues who participated in the operation that the military blew up the cave where the suspects were hiding," the report quoted Xinjiang police officer Ghalip Memethe as saying.
Beijing frequently alleges acts of terror by separatists among its population of ethnic Uighurs, a largely Muslim population of Turkic speaking Muslims that hails largely from Xinjiang. Last year, in an episode that shows the violence is spreading to other parts of the country, people with knives slashed dozens outside a train station in southern China.
Some versions of Saturday’s Public Security message said the team it was recognizing assumes the most dangerous antiterror missions, and since being formed in the 1990s has “contributed greatly to China’s stability.”
The Chinese police ministry’s posting didn’t provide specifics about the successful 56-day antiterror operation.
But the timing roughly corresponds to reports of a large police response to a deadly knifing spree in late September in a southern part of Xinjiang called Aksu. The Uighur-language service of U.S.-funded Radio Free Asia, for example, quoted anonymous sources in Xinjiang as reporting that an attack near a mine in left over 50 people dead, including five police officers. RFA had said some of the attackers were on the run and that police were mounting a major response.