2015-10~12
http://www.thereporter.com/article/NG/20151217/NEWS/151219883

Editorial: Censors can try, but won’t stop digital speech
If you were planning to hold a Internet conference for the world, where would you choose to hold it? Silicon Valley? Boston? London? Germany? Tokyo?
Whatever locale you guessed, it is a pretty safe wager that China was not among the top 10 options.
Yet, on Wednesday, no less a luminary that Chinese President Xi Jinping welcomed more than 2,000 guests to the coastal city of Wuzhen, China as they began participation in the something called the World Internet Conference.
That’s right. China is hosting an Internet conference. Has the nation noted as one of world’s heaviest-handed cyber censors suddenly gone soft and decided to join the digital marketplace of ideas?
Hardly. A glance at the guest list quickly dispels that notion. Political leaders attending are from such freedom-loving places as Russia, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
In fact, the very purpose of this conference seems not to be to open the Internet, but how better to close it. China is promoting the idea of “Internet sovereignty,” which is basically a web of fiefdoms gagged by official censors.
It is, after all, the government that currently is prosecuting civil rights lawyer Pu Zhiqiang for seven posts on a Twitter-like platform that he made over three years and that criticized China’s policies toward ethnic Uighurs in the western region of Xinjiang as well as mocked the national legislature and a legislative advisory body. But his gravest sin may have been writing acid comments about Mao Zedong’s grandson, Mao Xinyu, a major general in the People’s Liberation Army.
Pu’s is the latest case of Chinese officials criminalizing online speech. Pu has been charged with “inciting ethnic hatred” and “picking quarrels and provoking trouble.” If found guilty, he could be sentenced to up to eight years in prison, his lawyers say.
Goodness. If such things were crimes in the United States, one can only imagine what the sentences might be for those participating in the Republican debates Tuesday night.
The top brass from Chinese Internet companies Alibaba and Baidu, which exercise “self-censorship” so as not to run afoul of the government, is front and center at the conference.
Some media outlets and companies that are either blocked or harassed by officials also are there to do some damage control and possibly mend fences.
Meanwhile, those companies who use “information weapons” (you know, actual news) have been told that they are not welcome either as guests or observers.
Promoters of censorship can meet all they want, but the Internet — for better or for worse — is based on the principle of free and open access and not even Alibaba can put that genie back in the bottle.