2015-10~12
http://www.newdelhitimes.com/through-instrument-of-terror-pakistan-torments-three-countries-afghanistan-india-and-china123/

Through Instrument of Terror Pakistan torments three countries –Afghanistan, India and China | New Delhi Times – India's leading opinion based newspaper
Pakistan harbouring Taliban is a very old thing, repeated ad nauseum, in numerous forums. In the dying years of Taliban rule, as American forces neared complete route of Taliban and their rule came to an end, Pakistan sought some crucial hours of respite.
The reason-some 10000 Pak army soldiers along with their senior commanders were helping Talibans put up a fight against the Americans! Pakistan was literally running with the hare (fleeing with Talibans) and also chasing with the hound (Americans). Their playing with the Afghans and Americans is not an isolated story rather the regular feature of Pakistani statehood right from its inception. In 1947 they sent army regulars masquerading as jihadists, into Kashmir. In 1965, under Operation Gibralter, they pushed through army regulars as freedom fighters, forcing an illegal war on India that could have right well been avoided. In 1999, Kargil war they followed the surreptitious, devious methods throwing all ethics once again into the wind. Whether Mumbai attack or Gurdaspur, India is well aware of such treachery since the days of Shayasta Khans and Afzal Khans from the good old days of their fight against mighty maratha Chhatrapati Shivaji.
Recently, on September Pak army general reported that all Uighur militants have been killed from Pakistan maintaining in the same breath that there were no such militants in its soil. The contradiction in the statement was too obvious to be ignored by all. The way it had taken America for a ride in its support, it has done the same with China in respect of Uighur militants.
It has harboured Uighur militants on its soil and asking China for a price for their elimination. No matter how much money China funnels into Pakistan though China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), Pakistan can never get over its compulsive habit of rearing terrorism to harvest them later.
Like scientific community preserving strains of deadly virus for research use in future, it will preserve Uighur militants for future. In spite of getting lacks of crores of rupees, it played the double game against mighty Americans. China’s help-CPEC et all- fades in comparison. It’s only now that they Americans are getting disenchanted with this terror state. By helping Pakistan in United Nations to prevent actions against Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi- the dreaded mastermind of Mumbai attacks- China has shown bad seeds of bad karma; results will follow. Repent it will. Repent it must. The inscrutable laws of the Theory of Karma ordain that China has to pay for this sin against humanity.
When Pakistan rears Uighur militants and relieves the strain of terrorist virus on Uighur province of China couple of years hence, the theory of karma will have come a full circle.
The communists rarely believed in god, let alone Karma, communism as a doctrine is on its last legs in India. Heavenly laws will unfold. Americans have started realising their blind trust of Pakistan. Tormenting the neighbours through the instrument of state sponsored terrorists has been an avowed policy of Pakistan and it can never get over this compulsive obsession. China objects to terrorism by militants in its Uighur region and Pakistan’s harbouring of such militants but supports Pakistan on Lakhvi issue in UN.
Uyghur militants are bad because they are against China and Lakhvi is good because it works against India. Support for Lakhvi has definitely eroded China’s morality on fight against terror, severely impacting whatever facade this imperialist power had of humanitarian principles. Unfortunately China has been infected badly with this good terrorist and bad terrorist concept from Pakistan. It has to suffer the way Pakistan has suffered. It is only apt that heavenly laws of Karma unleash this realisation on China within a decade.