2015-10~12
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/chinese-security-head-urges-more-de-radicalisation

Chinese security head urges more de-radicalisation | TODAYonline
BEIJING — China needs to deepen its fight against separatists, intensify “de-radicalisation” efforts, and increase global cooperation to defend against terrorism, the country’s Domestic Security Chief, Meng Jianzhu wrote, yesterday.
The Chinese government says it is facing a threat from Islamic militants and separatists in the far western region of Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people and where hundreds have died in unrest in the past three years or so.
China’s Foreign Minister has already called for greater international cooperation in its fight against Xinjiang radicals in the wake of the Paris attacks at the weekend.
Writing in the ruling Communist Party’s official People’s Daily, Mr Meng made no direct mention of Paris, but said a country’s “rise and fall” would depend on how it secured itself.
“We must ensure that political security is put in first place, tightly prevent and strike hard against the infiltrating, subversive activities of enemy forces in accordance with the law,” Mr Meng wrote. “We must deepen the anti-separatist struggle and resolutely maintain ethnic and national unity. Always maintain high pressure on violent terrorist activities ... further deepen de-radicalisation efforts and international anti-terrorism cooperation to form a protective anti-terror security screen.”
Rights groups and exiles say Xinjiang’s violence stems from widespread resentment at Chinese controls on religion and culture and not from a well-organised militant group. China strongly denies abusing human rights in Xinjiang.
China says a group called the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) recruits Uighurs and trains them with extremists in Syria and Iraq. The intent is for Uighurs to return to China to wage holy war.
Many foreign experts, however, have questioned whether ETIM is the coherent group China claims it is.
Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of Uighurs have illegally crossed the Chinese border in recent years, travelling to Turkey via South-east Asia.
Uighurs have traditionally followed a moderate form of Islam but many have begun adopting practices more common in Saudi Arabia or Pakistan, such as full-face veils for women, as China has stepped-up security.