2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/11/06/cop-walks-free-after-killing-unarmed-man/

Cop Walks Free After Killing Unarmed Man | Funs.co
Pennsylvania police officer Lisa Mearkle shot an unarmed man in the back. His name was David Kassick. She killed him. She was recently cleared of murder charges. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“A Pennsylvania jury on Thursday acquitted police officer Lisa Mearkle ofmurder charges in the Feb. 2 shooting of David Kassick, an unarmed white man — one of just five fatal police shootings of the 834 to date this year that have resulted in charges.
“I never wanted to shoot anybody,” the acquitted Hummelstown police officertold local reporters as she exited the courthouse, later adding that she plans to resume her job with the department.
The shooting happened after Mearkle attempted a traffic stop because the vehicle being driven by Kassick had an expired inspection sticker. He drove off, later pulling into his sister’s driveway and then got out of the car and attempted to run away. Police say that’s when Mearkle fired her stun gun at him, and he fell face first into the snow. The officer then deployed her stun gun once more before firing two bullets into Kassick’s back.”*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.