2015-10~12
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2015/12/24/u-s-embassy-in-beijing-warns-of-possible-threats-against-westerners-on-christmas-eve/tab/comments/

U.S. Embassy in Beijing Warns of ‘Possible Threats Against Westerners’ on Christmas Eve - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
So now Obama is lecturing the socialist elites running China on how they should "tolerate" the extreme religious habits of muslims (mass murder, ownership of women, use of little boys as sex objects) in addition to the need for more transgender restrooms and global warming...
I hate to say it but sometimes I think this world would be a more peaceful place if there was no religion at all... Think about it...imagine all the people living for today?? You may say I'm a dreamer, but I'm not the only one...
Hey Dung! Nice try in bringing up the Obama factor. I know that you live a cubicle life. Never been out of the U.S. Am I right...Am I right! Get a life, and do the non neo-conservative thing...get a Passport and travel. Learn a few thing! You might be happier.
Those kind of people are like Ned and desperado. Never happy unless they are complaining or making other people unhappy.
The Muslims are coming !! The Muslims are coming !! Merry Christmas, Kommie Klowns. But watch your back. The Muslims are everywhere and they are unhappy with you.
Which is more plausible? "Ok, we admit it, that nine dashed line was a joke." or "So we've got yer cash, thanks very much, can't rip off any more useful IP, so you can go now"
Silly Neddy, the warning was for westerners. They are coming for you wherever that can find you
I am a Uygur from East Turkistan which is occupied by Chinese komunist parti in 1949. And changed name to Xinjiang Uyghur autonomous region.
Chinese Guvrinment warned to Western tourists in China have been warned of possible attacks around Christmas in Sanlitun district, a popular shopping area and night spot of Beijing.
I would like inform you that is not true. There is no prove about this issue. By this massage Chinese government try to make panic for foreigners who are living in china. Or not to visit Xinjiang Uyghur autonomous region. Becouse china did not like to visit any foreigners to Uyghur autonomous region There for they are try to Show uyghur people as a terörist. Uyghurs not terörist and not attack any foreigners but chine try to shows Uyghurs to world as a terrorist people.
Uyghur peoples heat Chinese governments unjust policy but did not heat any foreigners. And Uyghurs like to welcome foreigners to east Turkistan and like to show such is true of Uyghur life and how to percussion unjust of Chinese policy in East Turkistan.
Uyghur peoples are Muslims and cultural people not like do terror action and not like to attack to any foreigners. Only Chinese govrinment blams without prove that Uyghurs are terrorist.
All the Chinese waring message are not true and it is a propaganda of Chinese communist party to make panic to foreigners and to show Uyghur people as a terrorist. Also Chinese Guvrinment worry about make relation Uyghur people with weastren people who are most freedome and most human rights activitys.
I say welcome all foreigners to East Turkistan don’t worry about your life, you are been safty there. I am sure no thing will happend in china.
 (I would like to publish this speech with your media)
Thanks
aeheder@gmail.com
Gees, the people from the group listed by UN as a terrorist organisation is commenting at here. I am out of here.
As always, much thanks to the Chinese authorities, including those armed police pictured, for striving to keep everyone safe.
Big joke. The PLA is in more danger than Westerners. Run and hide, PLA, like you did in Vietnam. The Muslims are coming for YOU !!
Silly Neddy, the warning was for westerners. They are coming for you wherever that can find you
Isis's next target is d-o-n-xi himself isn't it?
Because of complete release of all innocent Uighur from indiscriminate suppression by stupid cina commies!
At last cina fools will disappear within few years by the Revolution occurred in the mainland!
Anyway there is no medicine for curing cina stupid commies like d-o-n-xi!
It's already been a few years, what's taking you so long?
There is plenty of medicine for people like you, but you are too poor to afford it !!
(and too thick to take it anyway)
Get cool, c*na monk*y!
so don't howl like underdogs, c*na fools! See!?
cinnna comi is a group of the stupid gang!
It's a kind of public enemy No.1 on the Earth like minute blackish gregarious flies destructive to Human kind!
it's always doing no good and a lot of harm!
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
