2015-10~12
http://www.latimes.com/world/asia/la-fg-china-dissidents-20151214-story.html

Nobel laureate, other dissidents remain in Chinese prisons - LA Times
Supporters of prominent rights lawyer Pu Zhiqiang chant slogans as they gather during his trial in the Beijing Second Intermediate People's Court on Monday.
Supporters of prominent rights lawyer Pu Zhiqiang chant slogans as they gather during his trial in the Beijing Second Intermediate People's Court on Monday.
The trial of Chinese lawyer Pu Zhiqiang drew condemnation from human-rights groups and foreign diplomats on Monday. Pu joins a long list of civil society activists, free-speech advocates, feminists and intellectuals who have been detained, arrested or sent to prison in China in recent years as Communist Party authorities crack down on even modest acts of dissent.
Authorities have leveled various charges at the activists, including advocating separatism, inciting subversion of state power, gathering a crowd to disrupt public order, and “picking quarrels and provoking trouble.”
Here is a look at some of the most prominent figures currently behind bars.
A poet, literary critic and former professor who had participated in the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests, Liu was sentenced to 11 years in prison in 2009 for "inciting subversion of state power” after co-authoring a controversial manifesto called Charter 08 urging multiparty elections and democratic reform in China. The following year, he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, but was forbidden from attending the ceremony by Chinese authorities.
A picture of Liu Xiaobo, who is imprisoned in China, is seen inside the Nobel Peace Center in Oslo on Dec. 10, 2010.
A picture of Liu Xiaobo, who is imprisoned in China, is seen inside the Nobel Peace Center in Oslo on Dec. 10, 2010.
China reacted to the Nobel Prize with fury, imposing a virtual news blackout on Liu’s selection. Limited mentions in state-run media called him "an incarcerated Chinese criminal" and said the prize had been "degraded into a political tool that serves an anti-China purpose.” The award deeply soured relations between Norway and China.
More than 300 people, including some of China's top intellectuals, signed Charter 08. It was made public in December 2008.
Liu was on a visiting scholar program at Columbia University in 1989 when the democracy movement began sweeping China. He rushed home to participate.
After the demonstrations were crushed, he was branded a subversive and served 18 months behind bars. From then on, he faced obstacles to publishing or lecturing, but he stayed in China and kept trying to do just that. He was placed under house arrest in 1995, then ordered to a labor camp for "reeducation." He was released in 1999. Shortly before going to prison a decade later, where he remains today, Liu wrote:
"Simply for expressing divergent political views and taking part in a peaceful and democratic movement, a teacher lost his podium, a writer lost the right to publish and a public intellectual lost the chance to speak publicly. This was a sad thing, both for myself as an individual and, after three decades of reform and opening, for China."
A Beijing economics professor who had become China’s most prominent critic of government policies toward the nation’s Uighur ethnic minority, Tohti was convicted on charges of separatism in September 2014 and sentenced to life in prison. The court also ordered complete seizure of his assets.
Ilham Tohti, an outspoken scholar of China's Uighur ethnic minority, is interviewed at his home in Beijing on Feb. 4, 2013.
Ilham Tohti, an outspoken scholar of China's Uighur ethnic minority, is interviewed at his home in Beijing on Feb. 4, 2013.
The state-controlled New China News Agency said Tohti had used his website, Uighur Online, to advocate for Xinjiang’s separation from China, as well as to encourage other Uighurs to use violence. Tohti had “bewitched and coerced young ethnic students to work for the website and built a criminal syndicate,” the agency said. The website has been banned.
Tohti had denied the charges, saying he never associated with any terrorist organizations or foreign groups and “relied only on pen and paper to diplomatically request” human and legal rights for Uighurs.
International human-rights groups and foreign governments, including the United States, described the case as persecution of a moderate intellectual who had sought to foster dialogue between Uighurs and China’s Han ethnic majority. One of Tohti’s lawyers, Liu Xiaoyuan, stated that he was unable to call people to speak in Tohti’s defense. “Before Ilham Tohti’s trial, we had applied to the court to summon more than a dozen witnesses, but the court refused to send out the orders,” he said.
In 2013, Tohti was intercepted by security officials en route to the Beijing airport and prevented from traveling to take up a post as a visiting scholar at Indiana University. Tohti was the 2014 recipient of the prestigious PEN/Barbara Goldsmith Freedom to Write Award, though the award had to be received by his daughter.
Legal advocate Xu was sentenced in January 2014 to four years in prison after being convicted by a Beijing court of "gathering a crowd to disrupt public order."
Legal scholar Xu Zhiyong attends a meeting in Beijing on July 17, 2009.
Legal scholar Xu Zhiyong attends a meeting in Beijing on July 17, 2009.
The Xu case was particularly disheartening to human-rights activists because of his attempts to work within the system. He embraced causes that Communist Party authorities ostensibly support — equal education for migrant workers and regulations requiring government officials to disclose their assets.
Xu earned his doctorate in law at prestigious Peking University and was elected to the local People’s Congress, the representative assembly. In 2009, he founded the New Citizens Movement, designed to push for rule of law, upholding the rights enshrined in the Chinese Constitution.
Xu was charged with organizing a demonstration at the Education Ministry at which officials said people "unfurled banners, made a racket, and defied and obstructed public security police officers from enforcing the law, creating serious chaos at that location."
The Beijing No. 1 Intermediate People’s Court rejected 68 witnesses that Xu’s defense team tried to present. "This destroys the last remaining dignity of the Chinese legal system," Xu told the court at his sentencing, according to his lawyer, Zhang Qingfang.  
One of southern China’s most prominent activists, Guo was sentenced in November to six years in prison for participating in anti-censorship and pro-transparency protests. The 49-year-old was convicted by the Tianhe District People’s Court in the southern city of Guangzhou for “assembling a crowd to disrupt public order” and “picking quarrels and provoking troubles.” 
Supporters of the Southern Weekly call for press freedom during a demonstration outside the newspaper's headquarters in Guangzhou, China, on Jan. 8, 2013.
Supporters of the Southern Weekly call for press freedom during a demonstration outside the newspaper's headquarters in Guangzhou, China, on Jan. 8, 2013.
Guo — whose birth name is Yang Maodong — was detained in August 2013 after he joined in an anti-censorship protest at the Guangzhou headquarters of the newspaper Southern Weekly. The publication had recently grappled with censors over an outspoken editorial, and several of its journalists were on strike. Guo’s lawyer, Zhang Lei, said Guo was also convicted for organizing pro-transparency demonstrations in eight cities across China. Zhang said Guo maintains his innocence and planned to appeal. 
“Whatever he did — including what he did in front of the [Southern Weekly] — was just him exercising his freedom of speech, a normal citizen's right,” Zhang told the Los Angeles Times. “And when he went around pushing officials to declare their assets, he didn’t cause any social disorder — that was also a citizen's right.”
Guo was imprisoned for more than 800 days before his sentence was announced; his trial was held in November 2014. Zhang said Guo was held in a cramped cell with no natural light, causing him severe physical and psychological distress. 
On the same day that Guo was sentenced, two other activists who took part in the Southern Weekly protests also were handed prison terms. Sun Desheng was given 2½ years in prison, and Liu Yuandong was given three years. Both were convicted of “gathering a crowd to disrupt order in a public place.”
Times staff writers Jonathan Kaiman and Barbara Demick contributed to this report.