2015-10~12
http://chinapost.com.tw/china/national-news/2015/11/20/451438/Chinese-police.htm

Chinese police shoot dead 28 from 'terrorist group': authorities - The China Post
The killings took place over the course of a 56-day manhunt following an attack on a colliery in Aksu in September that left 16 people dead, said the Xinjiang regional government's Tianshan web portal. One "thug" surrendered, it added.
It was the first official confirmation of both the attack on the mine and its aftermath.
Xinjiang is the homeland of the mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority, many of whom complain of discrimination and controls on their culture and religion, and is often hit by deadly unrest.
The assault on the colliery was "a violent terrorist attack under the direct command of an overseas extremist organisation", Tianshan said.
The official Xinhua news agency cited a Xinjiang government statement identifying the attack leaders as Musa Tohniyaz and Mamat Aysa, both apparently Uighur names.
Friday's reports came after Radio Free Asia (RFA), which is funded by the US government, said that more than 50 people including five police were killed in a knife attack at a colliery in Aksu in September.
The assailants targeted security guards, the mine owner's house, and a workers' dormitory, it said.
Earlier this week RFA cited government and local sources as saying 17 suspects, including seven women and children -- among them a one-year-old and six-year-old -- had been killed by authorities.
Beijing regularly accuses what it says are exiled Uighur separatist groups such as the East Turkestan Islamic Movement of being behind attacks in Xinjiang, which has seen a wave of deadly unrest.
But overseas experts doubt the strength of the groups and their links to global terrorism, with some saying China exaggerates the threat to justify tough security measures in the resource-rich region.
Rights groups say that such actions are among the drivers of the violence.
Beijing -- which considers condemnations of attacks in Xinjiang by foreign governments as weak -- slammed Western countries for applying "double standards" on terrorism in the wake of the Paris attacks that left at least 129 people dead.
"Double standards shouldn't be allowed," Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said Sunday.