2015-10~12
http://news.thaivisa.com/thailand/tightened-security-at-chinese-embassy-in-bangkok/115974/

Tightened security at Chinese embassy in Bangkok
BANGKOK: — Thailand today mounted high security for the Chinese embassy in Bangkok following yesterday’s bomb attacks that killed at least seven people and injured more than 50 others in China’s Guangxi region.
China marked its national day, the 66th anniversary of the country’s founding Thursday
The day also marked the 60th anniversary of the establishment of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, where tensions remain high between Chinese authorities and the local Muslim population.
Guangxi, an autonomous region bordering with Vietnam, has a large population of ethnic minority peoples and has been a major route for Uyghurs to illegally leave China.
In Bangkok, security was tightened with police and soldiers erected security checkpoint to check passing vehicles on Ratchadapisek road last night
Plainclothes and Special Branch police were also deployed at the vicinity to watch out untoward incidents.
All places which are related to the Chinese symbol were also kept under close watch, as well as tourist spots and commercial places where Chinese tourists frequented.
So far since last night no untoward incident was reported.
However stepped up security will remain for the next several days to ensure no violence would happen.
Yesterday afternoon more than a dozen parcel bombs exploded in southern China’s Guangxi region, killing at least seven people and injuring more than 50 others.
China’s official Xinhua News Agency said most of the victims died at the scene of the blasts, which targeted more than ten locations in the city of Liuzhou, including a hospital, a shopping mall, a bus station, a prison and government facilities.
As the Bangkok Post reported, police have identified 33-year-old local man as a suspected perpetrator of the series of blasts that started about 3:15 p.m. and ended around 5 p.m.
Local authorities have yet to release information on the possible motive for the blasts, which took a day before the 66th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China and the start of a weeklong National Day holiday across the country.