2015-10~12
http://www.livetradingnews.com/china-battles-islamic-terrorists-124711.htm

China Battles Islamic Terrorists - Live Trading News | Live Trading News
Hundreds of people have died in unrest in Xinjiang home to the mostly Muslim Uighur people and other parts of China over the past three years or so. China blames the violence on Islamist militants.
The government has made no public comment about the Sept. 18 attack at the Sogan colliery in Aksu with Radio Free Asia reporting most casualties were members of the Han Chinese majority and police blaming knife-wielding separatists.
Radio Free Asia citing Xinjiang police said the 17 killed were all suspects in the attack including three men believed to have been the ringleaders and their family members.
Repeated calls to the Xinjiang government seeking comment went unanswered.
“I heard from colleagues who participated in the operation that the military blew up the cave where the suspects were hiding” the report quoted Xinjiang police officer Ghalip Memethe as saying.
“That is why we were able to kill all of them with zero victims [from our side]. Seventeen corpses were gathered after the explosion.”
On Saturday state media microblogs published pictures provided by the Ministry of Public Security of armed police on what it said was a 56-day mission to root out militants in Xinjiang though it gave no details of who they were hunting only that all the suspects had been killed. Some of those reports were later removed from the Internet.
Radio Free Asia said that report likely referred to the operation to find the suspects in the coal mine attack.
The Ministry of Public Security did not respond to requests for comment. While the government often gives details about violence in Xinjiang it is not uncommon for them not to report certain incidents at all.
Rights groups and exiles say the violence in Xinjiang stems more from widespread Uighur resentment at Chinese controls on their religion and culture rather than being committed by a well-organized militant group.
China strongly denies abusing human rights in Xinjiang and says it is facing a determined campaign from Islamic radicals and separatists.
China has appealed for the international community to provide more help in its campaign against Xinjiang militants following the attacks in Paris.
Western countries have long been reluctant to share intelligence with China or otherwise cooperate saying China has provided little evidence to prove the existence of a cohesive militant threat and citing worries about possible human rights abuses in Xinjiang.
Are You Consistently Killing The Markets? Before you trade…can you answer these 3 vital questions? 1. Who is in control of the market? 2. Where ...
Do you know what it means to Trade From Strength? Mario talks about positioning his trade day and the 3 questions he always asks himself ...
Get the Pennystock Hot List Free!! If you have made the decision to trade penny stocks, you’re crazy, there is no proper way to invest ...
Art Basel Miami: Buying Art as an Investment Buying Art as investment has become increasingly popular over the last few years, but how much of ...
Get your FREE 30-day trial of MetaStock! Why take advantage of this trial offer? MetaStock software and data is a powerful analysis tool that has ...
HEFFX Confident on the Growth of Blockchain Technology HEFFX, an early investor in Blockchain technology is confident that the implementation of Blockchain will continue across ...
Mark Bellissimo, CEO of Wellington Equestrian Partners (WEP), announced today that he ...
IYC displays $228 million of yachts for sale at Palm Beach show ...
 The 21st Annual Palm Beach International Film Festival, April 6-14, announced it will ...
The National Association of Realtors said on Monday existing home sales dropped ...
A British vote to leave the European Union could cost the economy ...
Tesla Motors Inc (NASDAQ:TSLA) Trading Outlook TESLA MOTORS closed up 4.552 at ...
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd (NYSE:BABA) Trading Outlook ALIBABA GRP ADR closed up ...
The German economy, Europe's biggest, will likely slow down in the second ...
The head of Australia's stock market operator resigned Monday, amid a police ...
Tesla Motors Inc (NASDAQ:TSLA) Trading Outlook TESLA MOTORS closed up ... read more
A British vote to leave the European Union could cost ... read more
The Weekly Outlook For Gold & WTI Crude Oil $GLD, ... read more
IYC displays $228 million of yachts for sale at Palm ... read more
Information and opinions contained on this page are for educational purposes only and do not constitute trading recommendations.
Trading OTC Forex on margin carries a high level of risk, and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to invest in foreign exchange or futures you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience, and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange and futures trading, and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts.