2015-10~12
http://www.ecns.cn/2015/10-01/183226.shtml

Xi celebrates National Day with ethnic minority representatives
Chinese President Xi Jinping (C) meets with 13 outstanding grass-roots ethnic solidarity representatives at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 30, 2015. On the 66th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China, President Xi Jinping invited the 13 outstanding grass-roots ethnic solidarity representatives, who are from the five autonomous regions of Inner Mongolia, Guangxi, Tibet, Ningxia and Xinjiang, to Beijing to attend the national day celebrations. (Xinhua/Yao Dawei)
Chinese President Xi Jinping on Wednesday met with 13 representatives from the five autonomous regions, invited to the National Day celebrations for their contribution to ethnic unity.
The five autonomous regions, Inner Mongolia, Guangxi, Tibet, Ningxia and Xinjiang, host the majority of population of the nation's ethnic groups, which account for nearly one tenth of the total population.
Xi acknowledged the representatives' devotion to ethnic solidarity. "I wish to take this opportunity to convey to you, your fellow folks and all the 56 ethnic groups, my best wishes and festival greetings."
All people of various ethnic groups have created the People's Republic of China, and made outstanding contributions to the nation's development, the president said.
"I have stressed many times that not a single ethnic group should be left behind in the process of comprehensively building a moderately prosperous society," he said.
He urged people from all ethnic groups to love each other like brothers and sisters, exchange more and make efforts to safeguard unity.
Two representatives, the Enwaer sisters from Xinjiang, spent two months making an embroidery inscribed with words "striving for the Chinese dream with one heart." They have sent the embroidery to Xi as a gift.
"We've never expected to be invited here to celebrate National Day. It's the greatest honor of my life," the sisters said.
Chongqing takes measures to handle with congestion before National Day