2015-10~12
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/policies-politics/article/1896803/french-journalist-expelled-china-supporting-terrorism

French journalist expelled from China for ‘supporting terrorism’ prepares to leave | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
A French reporter forced to leave China after she was accused of supporting terrorism for criticising government policy in violence-wracked Xinjiang was preparing to leave on Thursday.
Ursula Gauthier wrote an article in the magazine L’Obs questioning official comparisons between global terrorism and the unrest in Xinjiang.
Gauthier queried China’s motives in expressing sympathy for the victims of the November 13 Paris attacks, suggesting it was calculated to tie Beijing’s harsh policies in Xinjiang into the fight against global terrorism.
She said she had “a very strong feeling of surreality” on her last day in Beijing, as she carried out her final packing and finished an article ahead of going to the airport for a late-night flight before her visa expires. “Everything which happened was so quick and strange,” she added.
Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang said on Saturday that Gauthier's article “openly supports terrorist activity, the killing of innocents and has outraged the Chinese public”.
Hundreds have died in violence in Xinjiang in recent years, in attacks the authorities have blamed on Islamist separatist militants.
Meanwhile, the Chinese authorities have unexpectedly freed two brothers of a Washington-based reporter for Radio Free Asia after they were held in detention for 16 months in a case that attracted significant attention from the US government and Congress.
Three brothers of ethnic Uygur journalist Shohret Hoshur were detained in 2014 in what was widely seen as an attempt by the Chinese government to intimidate one of the few sources of reporting into events in Xinjiang. Now, two have been freed.
The pair were released with little warning to their families in the town of Horgos on Wednesday, according to Radio Free Asia spokesman Rohit Mahajan.
There were no details of the terms of their release and both men are understood to have lost weight during their detention, he said.
Hoshur went on Facebook “to share the great news that my older and youngest brother have been released in the early morning of December 30 from a detention centre in Urumqi”.
Hoshur left China in 1994 after he ran into trouble with the authorities for his reporting. He has since become a US citizen and a mainstay of Radio Free Asia’s coverage of Xinjiang.
The men were charged with leaking state secrets or endangering state security and were tried separately last year, although no verdict was issued.