2015-10~12
https://www.tytnetwork.com/2015/10/27/jewish-defense-league-beats-buzzfeed-journalist-in-paris/

Jewish Defense League Beats Buzzfeed Journalist In Paris
In The Young Turks on YouTube by Aaron WysockiOctober 27, 20151 Comment
A journalist in Paris was threatened and beaten by a mob of Jewish Defense League members. You might not have heard about this in the mainstream media because these religious fundamentalists weren’t muslim. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“Members of the Jewish Defense League identified and attacked a BuzzFeed News reporter in Paris, France during a demonstration outside the offices of the Agence France Presse on Thursday night.
David Perrotin was covering the protest, which had amassed more than 200 members of the JDL, the Organization of European Jews, and Impact against the AFP for its supposedly “anti-Israel” coverage. Throughout the day, the protest was generally uneventful — aside from a few tossed eggs and insults.
That’s when Perrotin engaged in a rather disturbing conversation with one of the protesters, who told him “it [wasn’t] good to take photos” and asked whether or not he was a journalist. He initially didn’t identify him as such, but the protester apparently already knew who he was…
Perrotin rushed toward the police line in front of the AFP, but was stopped by a group of masked men who proceeded to beat him. The journalist managed to make it to the line, but not before also being hit by police officers who didn’t realize that he was a reporter. Perrotin was escorted to safety 45 minutes later.”*
I live in Beirut and have been since birth; What you guys saw in Paris done to an honest, principled reporter is so wrong right? Now I ask you to please imagine for a second that those two hundred guys were army people instead and that was Jerusalem, what would happen to any “pro-Palestinian” reporter. Thank you for covering stories like this, thank you for being un-biased and fair, thank you for being a progressive, and mostly thank for having the balls to practice what you preach. God Bless TYT