2015-10~12
http://news.asiaone.com/news/lifestyle/beauties-chinas-56-ethnic-groups

Beauties of China's 56 ethnic groups, AsiaOne News
Over 92 per cent of China's population are Han Chinese, but often forgotten is that the remaining 8 per cent of the population comprises 55 ethnic minority groups.





 

According to China Daily, these numerous groups share China's lands but many also live in their specific communities.
Some of the more well-known ethnic minority groups include the Zhuangs, the Miao, the Uyghurs, the Manchus and the Mongols. These diverse groups all have their own languages and cultures.
China's five autonomous regions - Inner Mongolia, Guangxi, Tibet, Ningxia and Xinjiang - host the majority of population of the ethnic minorities.
At China's recent National Day celebrations in Oct 2015, President Xi Jinping said that all people of the various ethnic groups have created the People's Republic of China, China Daily reported.
Each of China's ethnic groups has its own unique fashion and customs that is beautiful in its own ways.
Here is a look at the traditional costumes worn by beauties from all 56 ethnic groups in China.
The majority of China's population is from the Han ethnic group.
The Zhuang. Like some other ethnic group women, the Zhuang women are skilled at weaving and embroidery. These women have a great reputation for the distinctive designs of cotton woven yarn brocade they make in colorful velour.
The Manchu. The Manchu people inhabit Liaoning, Jilin, Hebei, Beijing and Inner Mongolia. The contributions of Manchu people to Chinese culture, literature, music and arts are considerable.
The Hui. Most of Hui ethnic group are Muslim and there is usually a mosque in each community. Their cuisine is diverse and varies from region to region. With a sizable population of more than nine million, the Hui ethnic group is one of China's largest ethnic minorities.
The Miao ethnic group, inhabiting Guizhou, Yunnan, Sichuan and Guangdong, are skilled at handicrafts, such as embroidery, weaving, paper-cutting, batik, and jewelry casting. The Miao embroidery and silver jewelry are delicate and beautiful.
The Uyghurs. The Uygur people, inhabiting Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, have a profound history of more than 2,000 years. They work mainly in agriculture though they are famous for handicrafts.
The Yi. Yi women are adept at embroidery, often making beautiful waistbands, handkerchiefs, and hanging strips.
The Mongolian ethnic group inhabits Inner Mongolia, Xinjiang, Heilongjiang and Hebei.
The Tibetans. Living on the world famous plateau, the Tibetan people boast a unique lifestyle.
The Buyei. Among this ethnic group, there is a very precious tea named 'Girl's Tea' (Guniang Cha), made by unmarried girls. Usually this is not for sale and only sent as gifts to friends and the girl's boyfriend to indicate her chastity.
The Dong. Dong women are adept at spinning and embroidery and on the brocade. Most of their clothes are self-made in color of blue, black, white and purple.
The Yao. Yao women wear trousers, short skirts or pleated skirts decorated with unique embroidery. Also their special hair adornments are dazzling and attractive.
The Korean (Chosen) ethnic group. People from the Chosen ethnic group are famous for their singing and dancing. After laboring or during festivals, girls in colorful dresses dance with the long drum and fans, and boys dance with a knife.
The Bai people are masters of artistic creativity including architecture, sculpture, painting, music, and other craft techniques such as lacquer work.
The Hani. The Hani have a unique marriage custom: if a boy and a girl fall in love with each other, their parents will walk for a stretch. If on the path, they meet no wild animals like rabbits or wolves, this means that they can proceed with their engagement.
The Li. The Li people, inhabiting Hainan province, live basically on agriculture, together with handicrafts, breeding industries and commerce.
The She. The She people enjoy singing. It is said that, during a wedding ceremony, the bridegroom will only receive each dish and dishware by singing. For example, if he needs a pair of chopsticks, he must sing the Song of Chopstick.
The Dongxiang. Dongxiang people enjoy drinking tea. When entertaining, guests will very likely be greeted by the senior member of the household and presented dainty tea with sugar candy.
The Gaoshan. The Gaoshan people do not like to drink boiled water or tea, but enjoy adding ginger or pepper into cold water as beverages.
The Lahu. In Lahu literature, there are many poems handed down orally.
The Sui. The Shuijia Bu, meaning cloth of the Sui people, is particularly delicate and durable. With a history of over 700 years, it has been the pride of the Sui ethnic group.
The Va. During festivals, young Va men will toast girls with a special wine that is held in a bamboo tube, and girls will drink it through a straw.
The Qiang. Inhabiting Sichuan province, Qiang children and women prefer to drink wine with honey, men tend to have a great capacity for liquor.
The Tu. The Tu people pay much attention to etiquettes. They treat guests warmly and there is a saying 'the visit of guests is the coming of happiness'.
The Daur. For entertainment, the Daur people like to dance in their traditional way while playing traditional instruments, especially during festivals. Usually the dancing is performed by women, who are also required to learn embroidery.
The Jingpo. Jingpo girls are especially skilled at embroidering handkerchiefs which they give to their lovers as gifts.
The Salar. The Salar style of singing consists of sustained vibrato notes, is called 'Flower' and is influenced by Tibetan singing.
The Blang. Inhabiting Yunnan, the Blang people have created abundant oral literature, taking the form of legends, tales, poems, aphorisms, and puzzles.
The Tajik. Tajik clothes are very distinctive. Women's dome hats are usually decorated with flower patterns and a white shade on the back. However, on their wedding ceremony, they wear special hats with an extremely beautiful red shade.
The Achang. Achang people are kind, mild and warmhearted and good at forging iron weapons, especially cutting tools.
The Nu. When a young Nu man wants to woo a girl, he must play either of those two and the girl will reply while also playing. Through this way, they express their thoughts about work and life till they decide to become lovers.
The Jing. Jing clothes are simple but beautiful. They choose silk and gauze as the main materials. Women usually wear a tall spire hat to avoid the strong sunshine and rain.
The Jino. Jino women learn to embroider in childhood while men like to carve the handles of sickles and musical instruments and to weave with thin bamboo strips.
The Bonan. Bonan musical forms of songs and dances sound distinctly similar to the Tibetan ones. The men play traditional stringed or woodwind instruments and often perform impromptu pieces.
The Russian ethnic group. The Russians greet each other with kisses or handshakes, similar to other Westerners, or alternatively with bowing similar to most of Chinese people.
The Yugur. They are renowned for their hospitality. No matter when guests arrive, they will feast them with great kindness. They are deft at weaving and embroidering. Like other nomadic nations they live in tents.
The Oroqen. Oroqen women are good at sewing leather clothes and carving on wares made of birch-bark.
The Derung. Although the Derung ethic group is one of the smallest groups among the 56 ethnic groups of China, their hometown abounds in numerous rare herbs and Chinese caterpillar fungus.
The Tatars. Etiquette is very important for the Tatar people. When family members sit at a dining table, the most senior is served first, followed by the rest ordered by age.
The Lhoba. Lhoba are very hospitable and places high value on etiquette.
Get the latest news, opinion, trends, coverage, reports and more from AsiaOne—straight to your inbox! Or download our apps from Apple store or Google Play.