2015-10~12
http://www.aljazeera.com/news/2015/12/china-expel-french-journalist-uighur-report-151226141810827.html

China to expel French journalist over Uighur report - Al Jazeera English
Meet the refugees who fled Syria for the Gaza Strip
26 Dec 2015 16:43 GMT | Human Rights, Asia Pacific, China, Media
China is forcing a French journalist to leave the country following the publication of a report alleging state repression of Muslim Uighurs in Xinjiang province.
L'Obs magazine said on Friday it had received confirmation from Chinese authorities that Ursula Gauthier's press card and visa will not be renewed after it expires on December 31.
Gauthier had been under pressure from the Chinese authorities to withdraw the article since its publication last month, L'Obs said.
Uighurs in Xinjiang have long complained of state repression, accusing the government of restricting their ability to practise their religion, and encouraging Han Chinese immigration to the province to decrease their share of the population.
In an editorial published on Tuesday, Gauthier's colleagues said she was the subject of death threats and a campaign by Chinese state media outlets accusing her of "ideological bias and anti-Chinese prejudice", charges L'Obs has dismissed.
"Ursula Gauthier is a passionate journalist of Chinese civilisation, who has lived and worked in Beijing for six years," read the editorial.
"She never wrote that the killing of innocent Chinese people was 'understandable', as has been reported ... the eviction of our reporter would be a major incident and an intolerable attack on the values we defend."
Gauthier had reported on "flagrant acts of terrorism and acts of cruel killing", Chinese authorities said in a statement published on the foreign ministry's website on Saturday.
The journalist's failure to apologise for her article meant she was "not suitable to continue to stay in China" and "China does not tolerate freedom for terrorist purposes", the statement said.
In its World Press Freedom Index listing 180 countries, Reporters Without Borders ranks China at number 176, just ahead of Syria, North Korea, Turkmenistan and Eritrea.
China's state-owned English language paper says George Osborne displayed pragmatism by not raising human rights issues.
Wife of UN-recognised refugee deported from Thailand accuses Beijing of tricking him into signing deportation papers.

 Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
 are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
 or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
 global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
 accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.

During the first two weeks of March, at least 1,428 were arrested for breaching Hungary's border fence with Serbia.
As Obama prepares to visit, questions remain over whether the embargo will be lifted and the future of Guantanamo Bay.
Are memes calling the Irish "the first slaves" an attempt to derail conversations about slavery and modern-day racism?
Palestinian American Farouk Shami is an associate who says the Republican candidate would make a "great president".
China's state-owned English language paper says George Osborne displayed pragmatism by not raising human rights issues.
Wife of UN-recognised refugee deported from Thailand accuses Beijing of tricking him into signing deportation papers.
Moscow warns it will act unilaterally in response to alleged ceasefire infringements by Syrian rebels from Tuesday.
But US president acknowledges "significant differences" on human rights and civil liberties amid one-party state rule.
Latin American migrants risk life and limb to reach the US border in search of the American dream.
The incredible story of 18 cows that became Israel's most wanted fugitives and symbols of Palestinian resistance.
Five years after the revolution, Tunisia's black minority has yet to experience the freedoms enjoyed by other citizens.