2015-10~12
http://bonhamjournal.com/2015/12/17/thailand-warned-by-russia-is-militants-have-entered-the.html

Thailand warned by Russia: IS militants 'have entered' the kingdom

What's Next For Conor McGregor And Jose Aldo After UFC 194?



Emily Ann Roberts sings 'Burning House' on The Voice Finale



Van Gaal: This is my most important Manchester United fixture



Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows Gets New Teaser Trailer


In the document, Special Branch police urged an intensification of security around "target areas that Russian authorities are concerned about" including venues associated with foreign nations that have taken part in attacks on Islamic State in Syria.
A leaked letter, marked "top secret" and "urgent", and signed by the deputy head of Thailand's special branch, was widely circulated in Thai media late on Thursday.
He said the information was the first Thailand had received suggesting that IS-linked Syrians had entered the country.
The group then split up with four heading to Pattaya, while two travelled onto Phuket, two stayed in Bangkok and and two headed to an unknown destination.
At least 10 individuals with ISIS ties were said to have entered Thailand for the objective of launching a series of attack on Russian Federation.
Deputy police spokesman, Krissana Phattanacharoen, confirmed "the content of (the) letter is genuine", but down played the danger posed to a specific country.
"Yes it's a threat, not only to my country but also to other countries as well", he added.
Malaysia's police chief, Khalid Abu Bakar, said at the time the memo was authentic but warned the information was not verified.
Police have stepped up their alert within the country and Malaysians traveling to Thailand have been asked to be wary in the wake of intelligence reports that Syrian militants are planning terror attacks there.
The Russian embassy in Bangkok could not be immediately reached for comment. Arrivals from Russian Federation spike during the Christmas and New Year holiday seasons.
An IS-linked group also claimed it brought down the Russian airliner which crashed in Egypt's Sinai peninsula in October, killing all 224 people on board.
The incident happened a month after Russian Federation launched air strikes against ISIS targets in Syria in September.
Confirmation that IS militants had entered the country would likely send jitters through the tourism industry, especially in resort areas, such as Phuket and Pattaya, both popular with Russians.
The timing of the warning would have been before a number of Islamic State-attributed attacks, including the October 31 downing of a Russian jet and the November 13 Paris attacks.
In August, a bomb at a Bangkok temple that killed 20 people was the first major attack on a tourist target in Thailand.
Uighur militants active in smuggling Uighurs out of China through Thailand have been accused of the bombing; two are in custody in Thailand.