2015-10~12
http://www.lidtime.com/china-expels-french-reporter-who-questioned-terrorism-8456/

China Expels French Reporter Who Questioned Terrorism - LidTime.com
BBC reported that Beijing confirmed it would not renew press credentials for Ursula Gauthier, of the French news magazine L’Obs.

Russia, Qatar reach agreement how to encourage talks between Syrian govt, opposition
Media reports quoted him before the visit as saying he wanted to open a representative office for his party in Moscow. Turkey and Russian Federation , which were previously close economic partners, are at odds over Syria .

It said an article she wrote concerning the unrest in Xinjiang supported “terrorism and brutal actions” that killed individuals.

US Defense Chief Visits Iraq to Assess IS Fight
After Carter announced the new special operations force, Shi’ite militias pledged to fight any such USA deployment. The recent focus has been the battle in Ramadi, the capital of Anbar province, which IS militants took in May.

If her press card is not renewed, Ms Gauthier can not apply for a new visa, and will have to leave China by 31 December.

Groups fight removal of Confederate monuments
If approved, this would be one of the most sweeping gestures yet by an American city to sever ties with Confederate history . Share with Us – We’d love to hear eyewitness accounts, the history behind an article, and smart, constructive criticism.

The piece suggested Beijing’s expression of solidarity post-Paris attacks had “ulterior motives”, namely a desire to get the worldwide support for its claim that violence in China’s Xinjing Uighur Autonomous Region is linked to a global war on terrorism.
China didn’t like Ursula Gauthier’s reporting – so it is kicking her out of the country. “They are accusing me of writing things in that I have not written”. The Foreign Correspondents’ Club of China said in a statement it is “appalled” by the decision of the Foreign Ministry, and called the accusation that Gauthier supports terrorism “a particularly egregious personal and professional affront with no basis in fact”.
She told the Associated Press she feared the move was “only meant to deter foreign correspondents in the future in Beijing”. She focused on a September 18 knife attack perpetrated on ethnic Han miners in Xinjiang, and revealed that Chinese media did not report the attacks until after the Paris attacks two months later. Gauthier accused the government of sowing tensions through heavy political constraints on the minority Uighur group.
But the ethnic Uighurs, most of whom are Muslim in Xinjiang, say Beijing’s repression of the spiritual and the violence is provoking.
The government demanded a formal apology for the story, arguing that it incited widespread backlash from Chinese citizens (The article itself is not available in a Chinese language version and is censored in mainland China, notes Agence France-Presse).
Reporters Without Borders also denounced the “media lynching” and “campaign of defamation and intimidation” against the French journalist.
It is no longer suitable for Gauthier to work in China, the official said, as she failed to apologize to the Chinese people for her “wrong words”.
Sign up for our newsletter and get latest news and updates delivered to your inbox.