2015-10~12
http://asia.nikkei.com/Viewpoints/Viewpoints/China-s-nonintervention-policy-faces-terrorism-test

Raj Kumar Sharma: China's nonintervention policy faces terrorism test- Nikkei Asian Review
When two Japanese citizens were executed by the Islamic State group last January, the Global Times, a tabloid affiliated with Chinese Communist Party, blamed Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's close ties to the U.S. for the incident. This was an apparent anti-West rhetorical move that served to criticize the U.S. and Japan for meddling in other countries' affairs.
     Apart from its actions, Beijing has long championed a principle of nonintervention in the internal affairs of other countries. It was one of the five objectives of the Panchsheel Treaty signed between India and China in 1954. However, with Chinese citizens increasingly coming under Islamic State and al Qaeda attacks recently as it aspires to be a global power and maintain domestic stability, the facade of nonintervention has become difficult to maintain. Will China give up its noninterference policy?
Tensions have long existed inside China's borders, but external links to these disruptions have expanded in recent years.
     The Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region is the biggest challenge for China's internal stability. Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang have been demanding independence ever since the area, once known as East Turkestan, came under Chinese control in 1949.
     Beijing has used an "iron fist assimilation approach" to tackle unrest in the region by resettling ethnic Hans in Xinjiang and discouraging religious expressions, such as wearing burqas. Hundreds of Uighurs have died under what Beijing calls antiterror operations.
     China claims the separatist movement in the province has acquired a militant character under the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) and the Turkestan Islamic Party (TIP). Numerous deadly attacks have been attributed to Uighur radicals.
     Beijing blames an attack in Kunming in March 2014, which killed 29 people and injured 130, on Xinjiang separatists. In June, separatists in Xinjiang killed 18 police officers in a knife attack after Beijing banned Ramadan fasting. In 2009, there were clashes between Uighurs and Hans in Urumqi, in which around 200 people died.
     After the 2009 Urumqi attack, the TIP began to attract support from external jihadi groups and militants from the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU), and al Qaeda started appearing in TIP propaganda videos expressing support.
     Of late, the Islamic State has taken the lead in waging a propaganda war against China over the Xinjiang issue. In July 2014, IS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi blamed Beijing of forcibly seizing Muslim rights. His comments were carried in a cover story by Phoenix Weekly, a Hong Kong-based magazine widely distributed in China.
In February, IS executed three Chinese Uighur militants for desertion. In November, a Chinese national was kidnapped and executed by the group, and last month, three Chinese were among the 27 victims in an attack on a hotel in Mali carried out by an al Qaeda affiliate.
     The Global Times has reported that around 300 Uighurs are fighting in Iraq and Syria, reaching there through neighboring Southeast Asian countries like Vietnam and Thailand -- and eventually through Turkey -- despite strong security arrangements in China. In May, China even raised a special police unit nicknamed "4.29" and deployed it in Xinjiang, as well as Henan, Sichuan and Yunnan provinces, to target gangs smuggling people across southern borders.
     Around 800 people were stopped trying to illegally cross from China into Vietnam over the past year, with the majority attempting to get to jihad training camps in the Middle East. In July, more than 100 ethnic Uighurs were deported from Thailand to China, with Beijing saying they were on their way to Turkey, Syria or Iraq to wage holy war. 
     Thai police had linked August's Erawan Shrine bombing in Bangkok to a criminal gang that helps Uighur Muslims from China reach Turkey. These developments forced China to seek closer counterterrorism and intelligence exchange with these countries while at a recent ministerial dialogue on security in Beijing with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
      Uighurs are of Turkish origin and have cultural links with Turkey. Chinese authorities see Turkey as having a soft spot for their "ethnic brothers" and seeing them as a part of "pan-Turkic" thoughts. They blame Turkey for providing diplomatic and material support to Uighurs on their way to the Middle East.
     Turkey and China have conflicting interests in Syria. In March, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Qatar helped form Jaish al Fatah, or the Army of Conquest, to fight against the regime of Syrian President Bashar Assad. Jabhat al Nusra, the Syrian arm of al Qaeda, and the TIP are part of the Army of Conquest. Most TIP militants are Uighurs from Xinjiang. Though the TIP has been designated a terrorist organization by the United Nations, Turkey has declined to do the same.
Beijing has recently taken steps that change its nonintervention policy. It is mediating between the Taliban and the government of Afghanistan, and it recently secured a naval base in Djibouti. China has also sent its first combat battalion to take part in U.N. peacekeeping operations -- in South Sudan, where it has oil interests. Experts from China are already using terms such as "constructive interference" and "creative interference" to explain these changes.
     China has also resorted to dual policies in Iraq and Syria. It cleverly endorsed U.S.-led airstrikes in Iraq to ensure the security of its economic interests in that country. Around 10% of China's total oil imports come from Iraq, and China National Petroleum Corp. has invested more than $6 billion in the country.
     However, China has no substantial economic interests in Syria. China has not endorsed U.S. and European airstrikes in Syria, but has those conducted by Russia. Russian airstrikes target Assad's opponents, including the TIP, while the U.S. and European forces target the Islamic State. 
     There seems to be a competition between the Islamic State and al Qaeda to attract Uighurs to their ranks. Recent news reports have highlighted pictures of an 80-year-old Uighur, Muhammad Amin, joining IS as one of its oldest jihadis. Most Uighur recruits from Xinjiang fight for the Army of Conquest, and IS has consequently intensified its anti-China propaganda to try and swell its Uighur ranks.
This poses real danger for China's internal stability, if these battle-hardened Uighurs return to Xinjiang and engage in terrorism. China has a vast energy infrastructure in Xinjiang. If this were targeted, it could severely hurt Beijing's so-called March West policy.
     The current wave of terrorism threatens one of the core mandates of the Chinese Communist Party -- preservation of order and stability. A growing number of terrorist incidents could convince others in China that an armed rebellion against their government could be possible.
      Numerous media reports suggest that China could join Russia in the Syrian crisis. However, Beijing is likely to invest greater diplomatic effort rather than direct military intervention in Syria. Questions remain over the fighting capability of the Chinese military, which has not fought a major war in 30 years and also lacks experience in antiterrorism campaigns.
     Chinese intervention would also send negative signals to countries with which China has land and maritime disputes. Experts from China also feel that the greater threat from external terrorist organizations is ideological, not operational. It is important to control the ideological threat emanating from the Middle East.
     China holds Western policies responsible for creating the Middle East quagmire, and it is unlikely that it will intervene to make any course correction there. Its policy of nonintervention is beginning to change, but Iraq and Syria will remain exceptions for the near future rather than become Beijing's new tack.
Raj Kumar Sharma is a research associate at the United Service Institution of India, New Delhi. The views expressed in the article are of the author and do not reflect opinion of the institution.
You have limited access. To enjoy full access, subscribe now.
Your subscription renewal has not been processed.Please update your payment information and enjoy full access.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week

Your subscription renewal could not be processed. Please update your payment information to continue enjoying the Nikkei Asian Review.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week


 Nikkei Asian Review is the only publication that brings you Insight about Asia, from the inside out.
 XXcontractNameXX has enabled you free full access to Nikkei Asian Review.
