2015-10~12
http://en.people.cn/n/2015/1001/c90786-8957631.html

Senior leader stresses military's role in Xinjiang stability - People's Daily Online

 Yu Zhengsheng (C), chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), speaks while hearing a work report by Xinjiang Party and government, in Urumqi, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Sept. 30, 2015. (Xinhua/Zhang Ling)

 Top political advisor Yu Zhengsheng on Wednesday highlighted the role of the Chinese military in Xinjiang stability, saying troops should play a bigger role in fighting separatism, terrorism and extremism.

 Yu, chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, made the remarks when meeting with senior military officers from the Xinjiang Military Area Command, the Xinjiang Division of the Chinese People's Armed Police and Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps (XPCC), an economic and semi-military organization.

 Praising the troops for their contribution to Xinjiang's stability and social development, Yu urged them to keep Xinjiang safe and stable. He noted that the XPCC improve communications between people of various ethnic groups.

 He also spoke highly of law enforcement agencies in Xinjiang, saying they have sacrificed a lot to defend national security and maintain social stability.

 When hearing a work report from Xinjiang Party chief Zhang Chunxian, Yu noted that Xinjiang's great achievements in the past six decades are the results of the leadership of the Communist Party of China, state support, the efforts of Xinjiang's people and the wisdom of the Xinjiang government.

 Yu urged the officials to continue to fight separatism and bear in mind that the campaign is a protracted war.

 Later on Wednesday, Yu along with an audience of over 2,000, watched an performance extolling the beauty of Xinjiang and the changes over the last 60 years. The performance included Xinjiang folk songs and ethnic minority dance.

 Leading a central government delegation to festivities marking the 60th anniversary of the founding of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, since Friday, Yu has been meeting with local officials and people of all walks of life.

 A ceremony in Urumqi on Thursday will mark the 60th anniversary of the founding of the autonomous region.