2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/11/07/ben-carson-admits-he-lied-about-scholarship/

Ben Carson Admits He Lied About Scholarship | Funs.co
This week, Ben Carson has faced new and increased scrutiny as he is polling first in the GOP primary. During one interview he admitted that he lied in his book about being offered a scholarship to West Point. Cenk Uygur, John Iadarola (The Point), Jimmy Dore (The Jimmy Dore Show Podcast), and Mark Thompson, hosts of the The Young Turks, break it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
His latest: He said he was offered a slot at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point with a full scholarship.
In a bombshell report from Politico about his “application and acceptance” to West Point, the campaign confirmed Friday the academy has no record of Carson applying for admission.
Carson’s rise to the tops of national polls has prompted a closer look at his “very volatile” teenager to God-fearing man story by the press. CNN attempted to verify the story that Carson almost stabbed his friend “Bob” while Carson was a teenager; the network couldn’t and Carsonconceded parts of his biography were “fictitious.” This week Carson criticized media for being “secular” when they refuted his claims that the Egyptian pyramids were built to store grain.
In the book that made Carson famous (and inspired a portrayal by Oscar winner Cuba Gooding Jr.), “Gifted Hands,” Carson claimed he met and dined with Gen. William Westmoreland, who led U.S. forces in Vietnam.”*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.