2015-10~12
http://www.thomhartmann.com/forum/2015/12/putin-nails-obama-annual-address-kremlin

Putin Nails Obama in Annual Address at the Kremlin | Thom Hartmann
President Putin gave his annual Address to the Federal Assembly today, before over 1,000 people in St. George's Hall in the Kremlin. He began by hailing the Russian servicemen who are fighting terrorism, then by introducing the wives of the two servicemen killed by Erdogan, and by a moment of silence. Russia knows from the 1990s what the aggression of international terrorism is, he said. Terrorism will never be defeated by just one country.
"We all know why that happened. We know who decided to oust the unwanted regimes and brutally impose their own rules. Where has this led them? They stirred up trouble, destroyed the countries' statehood, set people against each other, and then `washed their hands,' as we say in Russia, thus opening the way to radical activists, extremists and terrorists."
He went on to compare the present situation with that which led to World War II, with all that means for Russians.
Lyndon LaRouche noted that the Uighur terrorists, from a Turkic-speaking minority in western China, and shown to be supported in their terrorism by Erdogan's current government of Turkey, are a special concern of Russia, as of course they are of China as well.
"I don't even understand why they did it. Any issues they might have had, any problems, any disagreements we knew nothing about could have been settled in a different way. Plus, we were ready to cooperate with Turkey on all the most sensitive issues it had; we were willing to go further, where its allies refused to go. Allah only knows, I suppose, why they did it. And probably, Allah has decided to punish the ruling clique in Turkey by taking their mind and reason.
"But, if they expected a nervous or hysterical reaction from us, if they wanted to see us become a danger to ourselves as much as to the world, they won't get it. They won't get any response meant for show or even for immediate political gain. They won't get it."
LaRouche said that Putin is pointing here to the worldwide murder-apparatus of Barack Obama. LaRouche compared it to the murder-apparatus which was set up in France in the 1790s by the British Empire, which killed off the French oligarchy, and then most of the best and most talented Frenchmen. That murder apparatus continued through the 19th Century, in the Empire of Napoleon I and that of Napoleon III. Although LaRouche didn't mention that today, that murder apparatus comprised the Vichy government of France during World War II. It is the reason France is still so screwed-up today, especially after Charles de Gaulle was forced out of the Presidency.
If you really want to help the poor, you have to go after the businesses that exploit them. According to a recent article over at Alternet, there are several billion-dollar industries whose sole purpose appears to be exploiting low-income families for profit. And, without some big changes to our United States Congress, scamming poor people for money will remain a lucrative business model.
Don’t miss out again. Receive our daily rundown of news, show highlights and random musings.