2015-10~12
http://www.australiannews.net/index.php/sid/238759493

Australian News - China Says Kills 28 Suspects in Xinjiang Coal Mine Attack After 56-day Manhunt

The Xinjiang regional government's Tianshan web portal, in a posting that included photos of armed police dressed in black patrolling against the backdrop of a mountainous, snowy landscape, said the slain group had committed "a violent terrorist attack under the direct command of an overseas extremist organization."


Repeating a report that appeared briefly on China's Ministry of Public Security announced on Nov. 14 before it was removed, Tianshan said the 28 were killed and one person surrendered, during a 56-day manhunt.

The manhunt was launched following a Sept. 18 attack at the Sogan Colliery in Aksu (in Chinese, Akesu) prefecture's Bay (Baicheng) county, RFA's Uyghur Service reported shortly after that incident.


The Tianshan report, the first official confirmation of both the attack on the mine and the police response, put the number of dead in the coalmine attack at 16, including three police officers and two police assistants, with 18 injured.

Local sources told RFA, however, that as many as 50 people were killed in Sept. 18 attack, which was not reported in Chinese media.

According to the local sources, a group of knife-wielding suspects set upon security guards at the gate of the mine in Terek township before targeting the owner's residence and a dormitory for workers.

When police arrived at the mine to control the situation, the attackers rammed their vehicles using trucks loaded down with coal, sources told RFA at the time.

Friday's official report identified Musa Toxtiniyaz and Memet Eysa as ring leaders of the colliery attack. In comments to RFA in mid-October, local sources listed those two men and a Tursun Jume as top suspects, along with their families and said the suspects were traveling with women and children, including a one-year-old baby.

On Tuesday, police officers from Bay county confirmed to RFA that "all of the terrorists," including the seven women and children, had been killed in a raid.

Ghalip Memet, a police officer in Terek township, told RFA that authorities had set off an explosion to kill the suspects in a cave where they lay in hiding.


The Tianshan website did not address the question of whether women and children were among the 28 suspects killed.

Asked by RFA's Cantonese service on Friday about the presence of women and children, local security authorities declined to comment. Despite repeated calls to Bay county authorities, officials said only that the case had been solved.

Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Cape Town - South Africa may have to significantly restructure their team if JP Duminy is declared unfit for their key ICC World Twenty20 match against in-form West Indies at Nagpur on Friday (16:00 ...
Sydney - Australian authorities said on Sunday coral bleaching occurring in the World Heritage-listed Great Barrier Reef had become "severe", the highest alert level, as sea temperatures ...
Johannesburg -Three foundations have called on the ANC's National Executive Committee (NEC) to take decisive responsibility by implementing urgent "corrective" actions in the interests of all South ...
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Melbourne - Formula One will revert to the old system of qualifying for next ...
London - British Prime Minister David Cameron appointed a new welfare minister on Saturday to replace former Conservative Party leader Iain Duncan Smith, whose shock resignation left the government ...
Sydney - Australia's iconic Sydney Opera House and Harbour Bridge went dark on Saturday night, as the Earth Hour campaign to switch off lights to call for action on climate change began rolling out ...
Paris - England, led by bullocking No 8 Billy Vunipola, confirmed their remarkable transformation from World Cup flops to Six Nations Grand Slam winners when they beat France 31-21 on Saturday.
The ...
Bengaluru, March 21 (IANS) Bangladesh piled up a score of 156/5 in 20 overs against Australia in the group stage Super 10 match at the World Twenty20 here on Monday. Mahmudullah top scored with a ...
Indian Wells (US), March 21 (IANS) Tennis World No.1 Novak Djokovic believes that male tennis players should earn more money than their female counterparts, considering the fact that more people ...
Melbourne, March 21 (IANS) Two-time Formula One world champion Fernando Alonso has admitted he is lucky to be alive after a high-speed crash that forced race officials to momentarily stop the ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Following his maiden win in the Indian Open last weekend, S.S.P. Chawrasia made a jump of 92 places to be 151st in the latest global golf rankings released on Monday. The ...
Melbourne, March 21 (IANS) Reigning Formula 1 champion Lewis Hamilton of team Mercedes said he is expecting a closer fight with team Ferrari in the forthcoming season and has downplayed the ...
Canberra, March 21 (IANS) Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull on Monday announded the country will hold an early election in July if the Senate fails to pass laws aimed at curbing union ...
Bengaluru, March 20 (IANS) Bangladesh coach Chandika Hathurusingha thinks Mushfiqur Rahim's mindset is getting in his way of returning to form. It has not been long since Mushfiqur was Bangladesh's ...
Bengaluru, March 20 (IANS) The International Cricket Council's (ICC) ban on bowlers Taskin Ahmed and Arafat Sunny for illegal actions in the middle of the World T20 campaign has diminished the ...
Bengaluru, March 20 (IANS) Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Bin Mortaza could not hold back his tears while speaking to the media on Sunday over the suspensions of bowlers Taskin Ahmed and Arafat ...
Canberra, March 20 (IANS) Queensland's political system is set for its biggest shake-up in the decades as a referendum for fixed four-year parliamentary terms looks likely to succeed. On Sunday, ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 20 (IANS) Malaysian officials said on Sunday that two pieces of suspected debris of the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 have arrived in Australia for verification. Both ...
Los Angeles, March 20 (IANS) Rapper Iggy Azalea has revealed she considered driving off a cliff to end her life last year after the backlash she received over her career pushed her into a dark zone ...
Kolkata, March 20 (IANS) After slumping to a six wicket defeat against India in the World Twenty 20, Pakistan skipper Shahid Afridi lavished praise on the hosts, saying one could learn from them how ...
Australian News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Free-spirited Australia - a continent offering endless holiday experiences. Explore the colours of the outback, the excitement of the cities and a range of natural wonders you won't find anywhere else. The pearly sails of the Sydney Opera House, jutting out to jewel-blue water and over-reached by the intricate Sydney Harbour Bridge has made Sydney Harbour one of the world's most recognisable images.
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at the state-owned coal and steel companies into low paying jobs. Miners that ...
Geneva 21 March 2016 (WMO) - The year 2015 made history, with shattered temperature records, intense heatwaves, exceptional rainfall, devastating drought and unusual tropical cyclone activity, ...
Seoul, Mar. 21 (ANI): North Korea on Monday fired five unidentified short-range projectiles from an area to the south of Hamhung city, South Hamgyong province, despite strict UN sanctions, according ...
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia - Saudi Arabia’s leading electrical product manufacturer, Alfanar Group has announced that it is close to finalising the procedures for the acquisition of Germany-based ...
CAIRO, Egypt - Egypt’s Interior Ministry has claimed that the death toll from a mortar attack has risen to 15. The ministry pointed out that all the victims are policemen, including three ...
BRUSSELS, Belgium - The arrest of Europe’s most-wanted man and the last known living operative with connections to the brutal Paris attacks of November 2015, has led to shocking ...
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia - Saudi Arabia’s leading electrical product manufacturer, Alfanar Group has announced that it is close to finalising the procedures for the acquisition of Germany-based ...
WASHINGTON – The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by temporarily easing trade sanctions slapped earlier this month against the Chinese telecom equipment and smartphone ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
SYDNEY, Australia - The sleeker, two-door version of the Mercedes-AMG C63 S is set to hit the roads down under in June 2016. AMG’s C63 Coupe is reportedly priced from $162,400 and reviews have ...
© 1999 - 2016 Australian News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)