2015-10~12
http://www.rawstory.com/2015/11/cenk-uygur-why-havent-sam-harris-and-trump-condemned-virginia-bigots-anti-muslim-tirade/

Cenk Uygur: Why haven’t Sam Harris and Trump condemned Virginia bigot’s anti-Muslim tirade?
Young Turks host Cenk Uygur used the same logic employed by critics of Islam on Thursday to criticize the unidentified Virginia man caught on video berating a Muslim.
“Here, I’ll name names,” Uygur said. “Sam Harris, why haven’t you condemned him already? It’s on you, isn’t it? It’s on you, right? That’s the logic you guys use: ‘Why doesn’t every Muslim in the world condemn every attack that happens to be done by a Muslim?'”
“Donald Trump, why haven’t you condemned this guy?” Uygur continued.
“As a representative of people with really short hair and thick necks, I condemn that man,” Iadarola said.
“Every white guy, why haven’t you condemned him?” Uygur asked. “Everyone who has ever spoken out against Muslims in any way, shape, or form — which by the way, could also be me. I condemn him.”
The unidentified man with the “thick neck” was filmed ranting during a town hall meeting in which a local civil engineer, Samer Shalaby, was discussing the Islamic Center of Fredericksburg’s plans to build a place of worship on local property that the group owned.
The man can be seen in the video telling Shalaby, “Every one of you are terrorists, I don’t care what you say.” Uygur noted that, despite threatening to try to stop construction of the building, local police opted to end the meeting completely instead of ejecting the man.
“Somebody got him pumped up to say ‘all Muslims.’ It’s funny — he didn’t do the nuance that some others do,” Uygur said. “He didn’t hear the nuance. He heard, ‘Muslims are the bad guys,’ whether that came from Trump or from other quarters.”
Because of the man’s lack of “nuance,” he added, he did not actually want Harris to condemn his actions.
“Obviously [Harris] is not responsible for the actions of an idiot in the middle of a Virginia town hall,” Uygur explained. “I would ask you to use the same standard when it comes to condemning 1.6 billion Muslims or demanding that every one of them apologize, every one of their leaders apologize, every time a bunch of idiot radical fundamentalist extremist Muslims do an attack.”
Watch Uygur and Iadarola’s commentary, as aired on Thursday, below.