2015-10~12
http://www.in.com/news/current-affairs/chinas-trying-to-suppress-information-about-a-massacre-that-killed-50-people-say-reports-53316494-in-1.html

China's trying to suppress information about a massacre that killed 50 people, say reports

 A horrific tragedy struck China on 18 September.On that day, alleged separatists carrying knives entered a coal mine in northwestern China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region and killed at least 50 people, including five police officers, and injured 50 others, Radio Free Asia had reported.Some workers were sleeping while others were preparing to work when the attackers raided the building after killing the security guards, Ekber Hashim, a police officer inspecting the mine's dormitory after the incident, had told RFA. He had also said that nearly all the workers who were not on shift at the time were killed or injured.However, what is even more disturbing is that China seems to be trying its best to keep this entire incident a secret and suppress any information about the same from being made public.The damage of the attack was very severe that is why we are controlling [the flow of] information about the incident so strictly, lest we frighten Han migrants in Aksu, a source told RFA on condition of anonymity.Around 90 percent of the workers in the coal mine which was attacked were Han Chinese. And according to another report in The New York Times, the wanted posters released after the incident suggest that the attackers were ethnic Uyghurs. Moreover, the attack had taken place during the day of national celebrations in China to mark the 60th anniversary of the establishment of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.To avoid the spread of news of this attack which seems to be communal, the Chinese news media allegedly did not report on the massacre. The NYTimes report added that local officials have even denied that the incident took place.The Guardian also reported on the reluctance of Chinese officials to talk about the incident. "Reuters was unable to reach officials for comment. Such incidents are frequently reported in overseas media but not confirmed by the Chinese government until days later, if ever," the report said.
Not so soon: JNU students gear up for more protests after series of show cause notices

New Delhi:With the controversy over Afzal Guru event at JNU still going on, the varsity's students are gearing up for more protests especially against the series of show-cause notices served to studen...
Wife of Dalit man hacked to death in Tirupur gives witness statement to magistrate

Coimbatore: The witness statement of 19-year old Kausalya, whose Dalit husband was brutally hacked to death in full public view in a suspected honour killing recently, was on Monday recorded by a cour...
National Herald case: Court once again seeks Congress' 2010-2011 balance sheet

New Delhi: A Delhi court on Monday directed the Congress party to submit its balance sheet for the year 2010-2011 in compliance with its order in the National Herald case in which Congress President S...
In a blow to Maoists, atleast 270 Naxal sympathisers 'surrender' in Odisha

Malkangiri (Odisha): In a fresh blow to the Maoists in Odisha, around 270 Naxal "sympathisers"on Mondaytook a pledge before the police not to render any help to the ultras in Malkangiri dist...
LCA Tejas 'missed' target during Iron Fist 2016, says IAF official

New Delhi: The Indian Air Force on Monday said the Laser Guided Bomb (LGB) fired by indigenously-built Light Combat Aircraft Tejas had "missed" the target during the Exercise Iron Fist 2016 ...
Unfortunate replay of Hitler's tactics: Opposition, BJP cross swords over nationalism debate

New Delhi:The nationalism debate escalated on Mondaywith Opposition parties slamming BJP's "insistence" on 'Bharat Mata ki jai' as the only way to express this as an "unfortunate replay...
Paris attacks: Cops find DNA on explosives, identify Abdeslam's missing 'accomplice'

Brussels: Police have found the DNA of a newly-identified suspect on explosives used in the 2015 Paris attacks, a French source revealed Monday, as Belgian and French prosecutors met in Brussels to di...