2015-10~12
http://solonews.net/81798/news/china-expels-french-reporter-who-questioned-terrorism.html

China expels French reporter who questioned terrorism
Ursula Gauthier works at her desk in her apartment in Beijing
A spokesman for the Chinese foreign ministry assuaged global concerns, saying it will not violate the rights of individuals or companies as long as they are acting within the law. The real issue is that they have their own narrative of what is happening in Xinjiang and they want everyone in China, including the foreign press, to use their narrative. [But] they are not indicting me, they are expelling me and they expect people to believe that this is the real issue.
Gauthier had been under pressure from the Chinese authorities to withdraw the article since its publication last month, L'Obs said. "I firmly support the government to rid this Gauthier who disguises herself as a journalist, and never allow her to China's territory again", said another.
"Chinese society has very few freedoms, so if it takes away freedom of opinion, of expression and freedom of press, than I am afraid we are going back, way back to a period of Chinese history that we all thought is over", she said.
Magazine told Ursula Gauthier's visa will not be renewed after officials declare her "not suitable to continue to stay".
Speaking to RFI's former Beijing correspondent, Stéphane Lagarde, Gauthier said that if she goes back to France, she will no longer suffer from any repression or threats, "but this is above all a bad sign for foreign journalists here".
It said it was "appalled" by the decision, and expressed concerns that Beijing was using the accreditation and visa process to threaten foreign journalists.
"The [organization] views this matter as a most serious development and a grave threat to the ability of foreign correspondents to work in China", it said in a statement.
The fallout began with an article Gauthier wrote on November 18, shortly after the attacks in Paris.
Xinjiang, home to the mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority group, has been plagued by unrest in recent years, prompting China to launch a police crackdown on separatist "terrorists" it says are behind the violence.
In her article, Gauthier focused on a deadly September 18 knife attack on ethnic Han miners in the remote region, in which more than 50 people may have been killed.
Gauthier has lived in China since 2009, where she works for French magazine L'OBS. She predicted that the attacks were carried out over what the Uighurs perceived as mistreatment, injustice and exploitation. Foreign experts, however, have argued that there is no proof of foreign ties and that the violence in Xinjiang might be homegrown.
It is for the common good that foreign media outlets in China as well as domestic media organizations comply with these regulations and make their due contribution to the global fight against terror.
Uighur refer to Xinjiang as East Turkestan and consider it to be part of Central Asia, not China.
Li said at a news conference that China's anti-terrorism law targets no specific region, ethnicity or religion.
"Whether Gauthier admits it or not, her fact-distorting article equates to justifying terror attacks in Xinjiang", it said.