2015-10~12
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/china-expel-french-journalist-reporter-tells-afp

China to expel French journalist, reporter tells AFP | TODAYonline
BEIJING — China has refused to renew the press credentials of a French journalist, effectively expelling her, unless she recants one of her stories, the reporter told AFP yesterday (Dec 25), the first such case since 2012.
Ms Ursula Gauthier, a Beijing-based correspondent for French news magazine L’Obs, must issue a public apology for an article she wrote last month or China’s foreign ministry will not renew her press credentials, set to expire at the end of this month, officials told Gauthier on Christmas Day.
The move was met with widespread criticism from the French foreign ministry, press watchdog Reporters Without Borders (RSF) and Gauthier’s employer.
“They confirmed that if I did not make a public apology on all the points that had ‘hurt the Chinese people’... my press card would not be renewed and I would have to leave on Dec 31,” she told AFP.
Ms Gauthier would be the first foreign correspondent in China to be expelled since the 2012 expulsion of Melissa Chan, correspondent for the English-language service of Al Jazeera.
While the domestic media in China is subject to strict control and many topics are taboo, the foreign media is free to publish on any topic. However, foreign journalists frequently complain of harassment by the authorities while conducting routine reporting.
Ms Gauthier’s article in L’Obs triggered condemnation from Beijing and a virulent campaign in the state-run Global Times and China Daily, as well as thousands of often violent and abusive comments from Chinese Internet users. Her photo was also published online.
Entitled “After the attacks (on Paris), Chinese solidarity is not without ulterior motives”, her article spoke of China’s anti-terrorism policies in the country’s western region of Xinjiang, homeland of the Muslim Uighur ethnic minority — many of whom complain of discrimination and controls on their culture and religion.
Chinese authorities said they believed Ms Gauthier’s article offered justification for violence in the region that the government labels as “terrorism”.