2015-10~12
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/66442/20151002/china-celebrates-60th-anniversary-xinjiang-uygur-autonomous-region-amid-ethnic.htm

China Celebrates 60th Anniversary of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region Amid Ethnic Tension : Politics : Chinatopix
Yu Zhengsheng, chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), attended a ceremony to mark the 60th anniversary of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region on Thursday.(Photo : REUTERS/China Daily)
As China celebrates the 60th anniversary of the establishment of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, questions of ethnic tensions and rising violent separatism continue to swirl.
The Communist Party of China (CPC) has vowed to intensify the fight against separatism and terrorism.
Yu Zhengsheng, a high-ranking member of the CPC, who attended a lofty rally in Urumqi on Thursday to mark the occasion, said Beijing's top priority is ensuring long-term security and stability in Xinjiang.
He added that achieving this goal would be a long and hard struggle due to deep-rootedness of separatism, terrorism and extremism in the region.
"The three forces (separatism, terrorism and extremism) are the biggest threats for Xinjiang and the common enemies for all ethnic groups. We must clench our fists tight and take the initiative to crack down on violence and terror activities strictly and lawfully and fight the three forces," Yu said.
The energy-rich region, which has a population of 22 million from 47 different ethnic groups, was founded on Oct. 1, 1955. The region has experienced growing tensions between ethnic groups including Han Chinese, Uighurs, Huis and Uzbek's.
The CPC has said that the social and economic condition of the people in the region has developed drastically over the past 60 years. However, the government stresses that security, stability and trust between ethnic groups is a much needed catalyst for further development.
"Strengthening ethnic unity is the foundation for Xinjiang's social stability and long-term security...Efforts should be made to boost the exchange and harmony among people of all ethnic groups and build a social structure and community environment where they live, study and work together so as to increase bond and understand each other more," Yu said.
Yu stressed that the government's policies have been favorable to the region. He said as at last year, the GDP of the region had risen 115.6 times since 1995.
"The success achieved by Xinjiang over the 60 years has proven that only by firmly sticking to the leadership of the CPC, the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics and the regional autonomy system can we do the region good," Yu said.
Beijing has faced criticisms from rights groups for its crackdown on the Uighurs, a predominantly Muslim minority in the region. Critics say Beijing attempts to control the religion and suppress the culture of Uighurs. But the government has denied the allegations.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent MacBook Pro 2016 rumors revealed more potential features of the upcoming Apple laptop. read more