2015-10~12
http://www.chinapost.com.tw/commentary/the-china-post/special-to-the-china-post/2015/10/27/449339/Britain-putting.htm

Britain putting economics first - The China Post
In that time, Britain has been more anxious to penetrate Chinese markets and forage for what China has to offer than the other way round.
The super-gala treatment that mainland Chinese leader Xi Jinping and his wife Peng Liyuan received in London — during the week was not necessary to prove the point, but it helps. There was Xi, royally seated next to the Queen, in the gold-trimmed horse-drawn royal carriage parading through London and shown on television screens around the world.
The visiting couple also lodged at Buckingham Palace, the Queen's official residence, during their trip. Clearly, this was no ordinary state visit.
The Queen called the visit "a defining moment," Prime Minister David Cameron called it "a golden era," and Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne called it "a golden decade" for their bilateral relations.
An array of gilded items were spread among the vast gilt-edged dining chairs for Xi and his host, the lord mayor of London, at the second banquet after the Queen's.
Gold, the auspicious color in Chinese culture, went well with the red of the carpet and the Chinese flag.
This was Xi's first visit, coming a full decade after his predecessor's, Hu Jintao's. But British leaders had been somewhat more proactive.
Only a few years ago, hiccups in relations occurred after British officials stumbled over such sensitive issues for China as the Dalai Lama. After the ruffles were smoothed over came the slew of mega business deals.
Britain wanted to ensure those deals were on and Xi's state visit would seal them, so Osborne was dispatched to Beijing last month. To make doubly sure he made a side trip to Xinjiang, the alleged epicenter of mainland China's human rights violations, to talk trade rather than human rights.
China critics condemned that move. But it paid off for Britain in Xi's high-powered four-day visit and all that it represented and contained.
On Tuesday, China's central bank issued its first offshore renminbi bond in London. On the same day, Cameron appointed Chinese tycoon Jack Ma to his business advisory group. The next day, deals were signed amounting to £40 billion (US$61.26 billion), generating nearly 4,000 jobs in Britain. And this was only the beginning.
Critics tend to underrate the importance of business success for both Britain and China. They are perhaps the most enduring of the world's major trading nations, Britain historically and China in the past and the future.
Even before becoming "the workshop of the world," Britain had embarked on a global empire that would span centuries. It lost its sparkle after the Second World War and decolonization.
British interest in East Asia had centered on China, particularly trade with China. Even its presence in Borneo — Brunei, Sabah (British North Borneo) and Sarawak — were only as a staging post for trade with China on sailing ships and steamships.