2015-10~12
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/71330/20151209/mandarin-isil-clip-sparks-alarm-china.htm

Mandarin 'ISIL Clip' Sparks Alarm in China : Politics : Chinatopix
Authorities in China have voiced willingness to work with officials in other nations across the globe to combat terrorism.(Photo : Getty Images)
Beijing is calling for increased cooperation against terrorism after ISIL released a war song in Mandarin. China has urged the world to end the double standard on terror.
The rare clip of a war song in Mandarin prompted distress in China, according to Telegraph UK. China has called for global powers to "abandon their double standards" towards violent unrest in its territory.
The media arm of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) - Al Hayat media center - allegedly posted a recording online in which a chant in Mandarin says "The shameless enemy would panic" and "It's my dream to die on this battlefield."
The clip seems to be professionally made and sounded disturbingly catchy.
Although this is not the first time Islamic extremist material has filtered into China, the previous clips were usually directed towards the country's Muslim Uighur minority who speak a Turkic language. They also live largely in the western region of Xinjiang.
Beijing claims that extremist elements in this minority group have travelled to join terrorists in both Syria and Iraq. Beijing claims it has received threats from violent separatists in Xinjiang.
Previously, had passed judgement on the West after the Paris attacks for displaying double standards in labelling terrorism. Authorities said attacks carried out in foreign cities are automatically called terrorism while failing to call the unrest in China the same.
However, right groups said that the aggression happening outside of Xinjiang and across China are the results of religious and cultural oppression in Beijing.
"A Chinese-language propaganda song will remind the rest of the world that China is also a victim of terrorism. Some countries need to abandon their double-standards on anti-terrorism issues in China," Wu Shaozhong, an intelligence expert from the People's Public Security University of China, told the fiercely nationalist Global Times.
President Xi Jinping is calling for closer cooperation against terrorism, a sentiment also expressed by the Chinese foreign ministry.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent MacBook Pro 2016 rumors revealed more potential features of the upcoming Apple laptop. read more