2015-10~12
http://www.koreaobserver.com/residents-frightened-as-letter-bombs-rip-through-town-51076/

Residents frightened as letter bombs rip through town – The Korea Observer
There are infinitely better ways to deal with government gripes than taking to the streets and killing innocent people, but that appears to be what a 33-year-old man with the surname Wei did in Liuzhou, China.
On Wednesday, more than a dozen letter bombs, explosives delivered in packages, detonated throughout the city. The locations included a shopping mall, jail, supermarket, rail station, a hospital, and an open air market. Photographs posted on China’s version of Twitter, Weibo, even show one building turned to rubble and partially collapsed.
According to China’s Xinhua News Agency, at least seven have died from the explosions and more than 50 have been injured.
One witness told the South China Morning Post he was sitting in his shop when one of the blasts occurred: “Some windows in my shop broke. I walked outside to see what had happened and was almost hit by a falling window from the third floor. I saw half of a building nearby collapse. We were all very shocked and thought it might be an act of terrorism. All shops were closed and the town is under curfew with police guarding every street… It was very scary with so many attacks in just over an hour.”
But it’s not a terrorist attack as one might think, according to authorities, Mr. Wei was seeking revenge over a healthcare dispute.
It’s a pathetic response, for any chance an individual might have at obtaining redress flew out the door once they opted to go down the path of violence. Especially in an instance like this, where most of the targets had absolutely nothing to do with the disagreement.
What makes things worse, is that the attack took place on September 30th, right before the October 1 holiday.
Normally when we hear reports of violent attacks, it’s usually in the Xinjiang region and part of the ongoing dispute between China’s Han majority and Uighur minority in the area. But over the past few years, citizens in other parts of China have taken to violence to try and solve their disputes. In 2013, one person used a homemade bomb to take out a government office and another man set fire to a public bus.
Look, it’s no secret the courts in China a biased toward the government, and even if one has a legitimate gripe, the chances of getting a fair shake are slim — but that’s no excuse to use deadly force against those that have absolutely nothing to do with your situation.
It’s a cowardly response and one with no excuse. Anyone who carries out such actions isn’t right in the head if they think this will make any kind of difference. They need to be locked up… and for a long time. However, the event should also be seen as opportunity to look closely at the events that initiated them — scrutinizing details — and make requisite changes to society to ensure they do not happen again.
The Asia News Weekly podcasts brings you the biggest stories from the Asia-Pacific region.
The Korea Observer  | Newspaper Registration Number: Seoul A-02790 (서울, 아02790) | Business Registration Number: 117-81-83443 | Address: Deoksu Felice Suite No. 201, Nambusunhwanro-330, Yangcheon-gu, Seoul, South Korea. | Tel: 82-2-2698-4851 | Fax:0504-052-4851 | Publisher: Lee Tae-hoon | Email: editor@koreaobserver.com