2015-10~12
http://en.apa.az/xeber_former_intelligence_director_of_turkish__235378.html

APA - Former intelligence director of Turkish General Staff: US intends to create Turkish-Russian confrontation over Russian warplane incident
“Mujahadeen forces - Chechens and Uyghurs are fighting against the Syrian government forces in two hills of Bayir Bucak region. Those jihadists are succumbing to panic as Russia warplanes and Syrian army advance,” he said.  
The US wants to create a confrontation between Turkey and Russia over this incident, the former intelligence director said, noting that rising to the bait, Turkey asked for NATO’s assistance.
“We shouldn’t forget that the Russian warplane was shot down on the US-Israel corridor,” he added.
“On the other hand it is intending to withdraw Latakia-Damascus highway in the region from the control of the Syrian government, so that geography is also vitally important for Syria. I wish Turkey didn’t succumb to provocation and shoot down the warplane, as Russia won’t forget it. When Georgia attacked South Ossetia in 2008, Russia intervened there. It took a radical step and annexed Crimea as a result of the processes taking place in Ukraine last year. Those who don’t want the development of Turkish-Russian relations and oppose the Russian-Turkish cooperation in Eurasian region are now trying to cause a clash between the two countries in Syrian territory. Remember that the tender bidding Chinese missiles’ being given to Turkey was cancelled a day prior to the G20 Summit. The first deputy chief of the US General Staff arrived in Turkey a day after the Russian warplane’s being shot down. It is impossible to consider these accidental. Turkey and Russia need to establish a joint commission of experts on the spot and accurately investigate the causes of the warplane’s being shot down. I don’t think that this incident will cause to hostility and conflict between Turkey and Russia,” he said.  

 © All rights reserved. When you use information should be referred. When using information on the web pages of the transition should be. 
