2015-10~12
http://www.lidtime.com/china-s-legislature-oks-controversial-anti-terrorism-law-6626/

China’s legislature OKs controversial anti-terrorism law - LidTime.com
Ursula Gauthier, a reporter for the French publication L’Obs, wrote an essay about how just days after the Paris terrorist attacks, the Chinese government attempted to connect it to violence against Chinese miners who were reportedly stabbed to death by Uighur militants.

Louis Van Gaal: I could quit Manchester United
And the pressure of the environment shall increase, so it’s much more hard and there are no ways artificial ways to solve that”. Even David Moyes had garnered more points at this stage of his sole season in charge of the club.

China’s foreign ministry last week said her essay in French news magazine L’Obs “flagrantly championed acts of terrorism and acts of cruelly killing innocents”.

Highway 101 reopens after fire erupts near Ventura
Pacific Coast Highway is closed between the State Beaches and Seacliff off-ramps, and is expected to re-open by 5 p.m. A brush fire in Ventura County, California, has burned roughly 1,200 acres and forced some mandatory evacuations.

If her press card is not renewed, Ms Gauthier can not apply for a new visa, and will have to leave China by 31 December.

Tyler Ulis Gets Kentucky Past Louisville
United Kingdom is 199-40 during that time span. “I really believe having Christmas off for these guys was great”, Calipari said. It was unclear from the shot exactly what happened. “It was a great, great performance by our defense”, Mitchell said .

Xinjiang, home to the mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority group, has been plagued by unrest in recent years, prompting China to launch a police crackdown on separatist “terrorists” it says are behind the violence.
On November 18th, after the attacks in Paris, Gauthier wrote that Beijing’s expressions of solidarity with the French were at least partly disingenuous.
“They want a public apology for things that I have not written”, Gauthier told the Associated Press.
Xinhua reported foreign ministry spokesman Lu as saying that Gauthier had failed to apologize for her wrong words “and it is no longer suitable for her to work in China”.
Apple may have said that it opposes the idea of weakening encryption and providing governments with backdoors into products, but things are rather different in China. “For her, it is evil to kill civilians in France, while it is “understandable” to kill civilians in China”. It said: “Insinuating that Gauthier supports terrorism is a particularly egregious personal and professional affront with no basis in fact”.
The law’s passage follows several bouts of ethnic violence, including the stabbing of 29 people at a Kunming train station in March 2014 and an attack on a Xinjiang coal mine in September.
By then, state media had launched an abusive and intimidating campaign against Ms Gauthier, accusing her of having deep prejudice against China and having hurt the feelings of the Chinese people.
Gauthier has called the accusations against her “absurd” and says she believes her expulsion is “only meant to deter foreign correspondents in the future in Beijing”.
Foreign journalists in China complain authorities are increasingly restricting press freedom in the country, making it harder and harder for them to report freely.
He added, “We have made it very clear to them that this is something they are going to have to change if they are to do business with the United States”, alluding to additional worries that the anti-terrorism law is created to give a disadvantage to western internet companies in China. Chinese officials deny the claim, and instead insist foreign journalists should play by the same rules as Chinese journalists and refrain from violating laws and regulations when reporting.
Sign up for our newsletter and get latest news and updates delivered to your inbox.