2015-10~12
http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2015/11/29/asia-pacific/thailand-pivots-closer-china-exercises/

Thailand pivots closer to China with exercises | The Japan Times
BANGKOK – Chinese fighter jets thunder through blue skies above an air force base in northeast Thailand, a symbol of the blossoming military and political ties between the junta-run country and its authoritarian neighbor to the north.
For two weeks, Thai and Chinese planes took part in the inaugural joint air force drill, an exercise culminating late last week with a performance by Beijing’s acrobatic air team.
For Group Capt. Chanon Mungthanya, a Royal Thai Air Force spokesman involved in the drill at Korat, it is a valuable opportunity to interact with his Chinese counterparts.
“Our relationship will go up a level during this exercise,” he said.
Historically, Thailand has been one of Washington’s staunchest military allies in Southeast Asia and could have expected to see that relationship blossom under U.S. President Barack Obama’s “pivot” to Asia.
But the May 2014 coup, the second in the last decade, and the junta’s subsequent rights crackdown has strained those ties.
“The junta is obviously much more comfortable with China because they speak the same language and commit the same practices: authoritarianism,” said Puangthong Pawakapan, a Thai politics expert at Chulalongkorn University.
Beijing swiftly recognized junta chief Gen. Prayut Chan-ocha and is pushing plans for a multibillion-dollar Chinese-built rail network through the kingdom.
Thailand is also considering whether to spend $1 billion on Chinese submarines.
But rights groups say this closeness has unpleasant consequences inside Thailand, with the junta seemingly happy to do Beijing’s dirty work.
In July more than 100 Uighur refugees were deported to China despite warnings from the United Nations that the Muslim minority faced the risk of persecution.
Thai authorities insist August’s deadly bombing of Erawan Shrine in Bangkok was not a revenge attack, even though the majority of victims were ethnic Chinese and two Uighurs have been charged.
Three weeks after those deportations, in comments that caused much media merriment, Thailand’s then foreign minister Gen. Tanasak Patimapragorn lavished praise on Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi. “If I were a woman I will fall in love with his excellency,” he said.
Earlier this month, two Chinese dissidents who had been granted refugee status by the U.N., one of whom had been living in Thailand for years, were abruptly arrested and sent to Beijing. A third has gone missing in Thailand.
“Thailand is no longer a safe place for anyone with anti-CPC (Communist Party of China) views,” Puangthong said.
Paul Chambers, director of the Institute of Southeast Asian Affairs, said the junta is “playing the realist . . . juggling connections with China, Japan and the U.S. to obtain the highest dividend for the Thai state.”
But Chambers believes the recent deportations are something new. “It does show the Chinese that the Thai military is willing to take enormous flak to help Beijing out.”
For the United States, events in Thailand create a quandary.
Obama has made reasserting American influence in the Asia-Pacific region a flagship of his foreign policy.
But the “pivot” has fallen victim to diplomatic distractions in the Middle East and other trouble spots. It has also struggled to gain traction at a time when democratic progress across Southeast Asia shows signs of stagnation.
Thailand chafes under a junta seemingly in no rush to hold elections. Cambodian strongman Hun Sen retains his grip after more than 30 years of rule. Vietnam and Laos remain intolerant one-party states.
Washington cancelled some military aid after the Thai coup and continues to call for a return to democracy. But it is also wary about pushing away a regional ally. Earlier this year it pressed ahead with the Cobra Gold exercise, Asia’s largest military drill, which is conducted annually in Thailand.
“Thailand has pivoted toward China but Bangkok’s edging toward Beijing is not at all a total plunge,” said Chambers.
Washington, he says, still holds significant influence, especially if the recently agreed Trans-Pacific Partnership becomes a reality and Thailand chooses to join.
A spokeswoman at the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok said Washington’s close relationship with Thailand has “endured and flourished through many challenging times.”
“This does not prevent us from addressing issues of concern, including about democracy and human rights,” she added.
Back on Korat Air Base, new friendships between Thai and Chinese soldiers are being forged.
“We can chat, we can have our military help each other out,” said Chanon. “We eat together, get to know one another, become tired and practice together.”
A silly article mostly, sometimes a stupid article. A “joint” exercise with the Chinese Air Force, Please. Now the Chinese don’t have to clean their own windshields on their jets, that’s what Thai Air Force is good for. And the acrobatic display? Please. Chinese, yes? The Thai Air Force idea of an acrobatic display is landing any plane successfully. The Chinese peasantry loathe Chinese merchants who control all transactions — and the Thai Occupation Army correctly understands China could occupy Thailand by lunchtime any day of the year and hates that truth. Only someone as stupid as General Cretino — and he is the stupidest dictator in all recorded history — thinks a relationship with China is worth having.
As a Laotian. There is nothing wrong with Thailand cohesively building a friendships with China as Thailand and other Asean members are natural neighbors to China. We as a neighbors must build peace and prosperity within our own backyard and our neighbors. Not wars or choosing side like the West or EU would see or do. I believed that Asean can be a future powers some day. But we must improved our regional issue first before anything out of our orbit that we as Asean have no voice or concrete natural power and strength with the international community. My theory of the new world order for Asian is that Asean and our natural neighbors first before any others.