2015-10~12
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2015/12/03/china-doubles-down-on-terrorism-double-standards-accusation/

China Doubles Down on Terrorism ‘Double Standards’ Accusation - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
China has turned up the volume with its complaints that the world applies a double standard when it comes to terrorism.
At a daily press briefing on Wednesday, a spokeswoman for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs departed from the event’s usual curt, vague answers to criticize a French publication for a recent article on China’s Xinjiang region, where some among the mainly Muslim Uighurs are staging anti-government violence. The article looks at China’s policies that may be driving resentment among Uighurs and says the government uses global concerns about terror to justify its actions in Xinjiang.
Prompted by a question from the state-run China Daily newspaper, Ms. Hua said the article smeared China’s policies in Xinjiang and invoked a double standard. “We cannot understand why terrorism, when taking place in other countries, is regarded as terrorism but ethnic and religious issues, when taking place in China. And we cannot understand why other countries’ counter-terrorism acts are justified, but China’s counter-terrorism actions are so-called repression of ethnic groups,” she said. “I think it’s ridiculous, the logic is ridiculous and is out of political prejudice and double standards. We cannot categorize terrorism as good or bad terrorism because terrorism is the enemy of the entire mankind.”
In a statement published on its website, L’Obs defended its reporting and called on Chinese authorities to end what it called a smear campaign.
Ms. Hua’s words echo a position increasingly heard from senior Chinese officials and state media. Following the Paris attacks on Nov. 13, Foreign Minister Wang Yi said, “Double standards shouldn’t be allowed.” He said China is also a victim of terrorism and named as perpetrators the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a group Beijing has long accused of fomenting anti-government violence in Xinjiang.
In an editorial following the Paris attacks, the state-run Global Times wrote, “So far the West has not recognized China as a victim of terrorism. Lately, Western opinion still does not accept the terrorist incidents in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region for what they are.”
China has been victim to a number of incidents – from a mass knifing in a railway station to bombings in a marketplace — that seem intent on creating public fear, a hallmark of terrorism. At the same time, many acts of violence in Xinjiang have also been directed against police and other symbols of government power.
The situation on the ground in Xinjiang, however, has been difficult to confirm independently. Though foreign reporters are free to travel to the region, when they do they often encounter smothering security, questioned at checkpoints and followed by government personnel. Sometimes official accounts come months after the incident.
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

Unfortunately, every ISIS sleeper cell already in the United States.......and any ISIS tourists deplaning in a red state have complete, unrestricted access to weapons of mass destruction thanks to the NRA-GOP 'gun show loophole'.
All any ISIS member has to do is pay for their assault weapons and ammo at a gun show and head over to the nearest public building to start shooting ---- no questions asked.
Sure they could build pipe bombs or other explosives, but that takes careful study, assembly and handling.
The beauty of the NRA-GOP gun shows is that no preparation is really necessary for the next ISIS attack.
America's gun shows are waiting with open arms to supply ISIS with murder weapons for their next deadly assault on innocent Americans.
Astonishingly, it’s perfectly legal even for people on the terrorism watch list to buy guns in the United States. More than 2,000 terrorism suspects did indeed purchase guns in the United States between 2004 and 2014, according to the Government Accountability Office and The Washington Post’s Wonkblog. Democrats have repeatedly proposed closing that loophole, but the National Rifle Association and its Republican allies have blocked those efforts, so it’s still legal.
While Republicans in Congress resist the most basic steps to curb gun access by violent offenders, the public is much more reasonable. Even among gun owners, 85 percent approve of universal background checks, according to a poll this year.
Remove all the spam so people can have a discussion on this topic.
This is censorship!
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
