2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/11/17/anonymous-declares-war-on-isis-after-paris-attacks/

Anonymous Declares War On ISIS After Paris Attacks | Funs.co
It’s often frustrating that our intelligence agencies can’t seem to track down most of ISIS considering how active they are online. Anonymous has decided to join the fight. They want to dox ISIS and send their addresses to Seal Team 6 for the most uber pownage of all time. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“After the Islamic State (ISIS) claimed responsibility for Friday’s wave of attacks that killed more than 130 people in Paris, the hactivist collective Anonymous declared war on the terrorist faction and its supporters.
“Make no mistake: Anonymous is at war with Daesh,” the enigmatic hacker group wrote on Twitter over the weekend, using an alternative name for ISIS.
Make no mistake: #Anonymous is at war with #Daesh. We won’t stop opposing #IslamicState. We’re also better hackers. #OpISIS
The group uploaded videos in multiple languages, including English and Italian, in which it vowed to “neutralize” the perpetrators of Friday’s attacks.
“We will not give up, we do not forgive,” said a person wearing a Guy Fawkes mask. “Expect us.””*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.