2015-10~12
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/former-editor-xinjiang-newspaper-china-ousted-communist-party

Former editor of Xinjiang newspaper in China is ousted from Communist Party | TODAYonline
BEIJING — The Communist Party has expelled the recent editor-in-chief of the official newspaper of the volatile western region of Xinjiang for openly discussing party policy and for corruption, according to an online announcement yesterday (Nov 2) by the regional party anticorruption agency. The former editor is expected to face criminal prosecution on related charges.
The announcement about the former editor, Mr Zhao Xinyu, was a rare instance in which the party said it had purged someone for questioning or openly discussing policy, and the move could have wide-ranging effects on the behaviour and actions of China’s 90 million party members.
Mr Zhao oversaw Xinjiang Daily, the most important party news and opinion publication in the region, from 2011 until this May, when he was removed at the start of a party investigation.
Xinjiang is a vast region on China’s western borderlands where security forces are trying to suppress violence and protests by angry and frustrated members of the Uighur ethnicity. The Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking, mostly Sunni Muslim group whose members often complain about discriminatory policies set by the Han, the dominant ethnic group in China.
Hundreds of people have died there in violence in recent years, and the party is trying to impose strict anti-Islamic practises in the region because it blames Muslim extremists. President Xi Jinping himself has taken a strong personal interest in governance there.
Mr Zhao is an ethnic Han from Shanxi province who had been assigned to Xinjiang to manage Xinjiang Daily and direct its party committee.
Senior party officials appear to be using Mr Zhao’s case to set an example across party ranks, be it in Beijing or the provinces. Forcing party discipline on members is something that Mr Xi, the party chief, has been trying to do since he took power from Mr Hu Jintao in 2012.
The announcement by the regional discipline and inspection commission, which examines corruption and other violations of party rules, highlighted the fact that Mr Zhao was being investigated for “discussing party policy in an open manner.” This phrase “wangyi zhongyang” in Chinese was added to a revised set of party regulations issued on Oct 22. The phrase appears under Article 46, which goes into some detail on what party members can discuss in meetings.
An older version of the article says party members cannot speak out against party policy. The new version says they cannot openly talk about policy. On WeChat, a popular messaging app, party members noted that Mr Zhao’s case was the first being brought under the revised article and that it would have a chilling effect on policy discussions.
The official announcement about the ouster said Mr Zhao’s main violation was “discussing the party central’s policies and decisions, and openly publishing comments against party central and the Xinjiang party committee’s important orders and demands.” It did not give further details on the violations.