2015-10~12
http://www.lidtime.com/beijing-tightens-security-as-embassies-warn-of-threats-6061/

Beijing Tightens Security as Embassies Warn of Threats - LidTime.com
Both governments said citizens should remain vigilant in the area of Sanlitun, which is a bar and shopping area in the capital Beijing.

England’s James Anderson out of first South Africa check
But South Africa have lost much of their swagger since charismatic captain Graeme Smith and all-rounder Jacques Kallis retired.

After reports of the U.S. Embassy in Beijing receiving possible threats against Westerners in Sanlitun over the Christmas holidays, police tightened security in the popular shopping area.

Van Gaal demands apology – “I think I was already sacked”
English media have speculated since last Thursday that Manchester United are planning to appoint Mourinho as their next manager. I have to talk with you. “But you will use my words in your context”. “I have tried to lift the confidence of my players”.

Meanwhile, the Chinese embassy in Washington also issued an alert on Thursday, urging Chinese citizens in the United States to be cautious against security risks. It is also unclear whether the Beijing security alert was related to the threats mentioned by the U.S. embassy.

Supreme Court Bans Registration of Diesel Cars Over 2000cc in Delhi
In another landmark ruling, the court also raised by 100% the Green cess being levied on commercial vehicles entering Delhi. All diesel engines used by Mercedes-Benz on their cars in India are above the 2-litre engine capacity that has been banned.

The French embassy in Beijing said it had received information from its American counterparts and urged “utmost vigilance” to its citizens.
“Yang Shu, a counter-terror expert at Lanzhou University in northwest China, said that the threat’s high profile and focus on Westerners could mark a first for Beijing”.
The city’s police department issued a yellow alert today, the second level in a four-tier system, according to a post on its social media account. The message gave no further information about the possible threat.
The area has many bars and restaurants, and its upscale shopping plaza, which houses many major global brands, is popular with foreigners and local shoppers alike. Chinese authorities have routinely issued security notices during holidays, even during foreign holidays such as Christmas.
Xinjiang has seen violent attacks in recent years, which the Chinese government has blamed on Islamist militants and separatists.
“Although foreigners haven’t been specifically targeted, attacks could occur in places visited by foreigners”.
Sign up for our newsletter and get latest news and updates delivered to your inbox.