2015-10~12
http://farandulife.com/2015/12/china-imposes-new-restrictions-on-terrorism-reporting/

China Imposes New Restrictions On Terrorism Reporting
The law says that in times of possible terror attacks, only China's anti-terrorism leadership agencies can release information on how the attacks occurred, developed and are dealt with.
In an article from November, she wrote that China used the Paris attacks "to justify crackdowns on Uighur people in Xinjiang".
China's first anti-terrorism law gives a sweeping definition of the crime, authorizes the People's Liberation Army to take part in counter-terror operations overseas and elevates terrorism as a national security priority.
Chinese officials say their country faces a growing threat from militants and separatists, especially in its unruly Western region of Xinjiang, where hundreds have died in violence in the past few years.
"China has always protected the legal rights of foreign media and foreign correspondents to report within the country, but China does not tolerate the freedom to embolden terrorism", he said.
China says it will impose new restrictions on media reports about terrorism, as it continued to deride a French journalist being expelled after questioning the government's terrorism claims.
While the new law dropped requirements in earlier drafts for technology companies to submit encryption codes and other sensitive data for pre-vetting, it indicates that firms will have to hand over that material if requested. Lu added that because Gauthier did not make a public apology, she could not stay and work in China.
The new law contains a clause saying news organizations should aid in the propaganda struggle against terrorism, but offers no specifics about restrictions or penalties.
An Weixing, the head of the Public Security Ministry's counter-terrorism division, speaks at a news conference after China's parliament passed a controversial new anti-terrorism law in Beijing, on Sunday.
Gauthier wrote that some of the violent attacks in Xinjiang involving members of the minority Uighur community appeared to be homegrown, with no evidence of foreign ties - an observation that has been made by numerous foreign experts on security and on Xinjiang's ethnic policies and practices.
French journalist of L'Obs magazine, Ursula Gauthier, published an article last month on the Chinese government's anti-terror policies in the western province of Xinjiang, home to the mainly Muslim Uighurs some of whom complain of discrimination against their culture and religion.
The foreign ministry said last week a report she did for L'Obs "flagrantly championed acts of terrorism and acts of cruelly killing innocents".
The government's decision to expel Gauthier was approved by 95 percent of respondents to a poll on the web site of the Global Times, an often incendiary publication with close ties to the ruling Communist Party.
One of these suggested that the government was partly to blame for rising inter-ethnic violence. "But the Global Times distorted my writing, distorted heavily, beyond recognition".
Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang said Ms Gauthier was no longer "suitable" to be allowed to work in China because she had supported "terrorism and cruel acts" that killed civilians and refused to apologise for her words.

Chris Brown's Album 'Royalty' Makes A Healthy Debut On The Charts 


How Coffee, Albeit Lots Of It, Could Improve Your Physical Endurance 


Charlotte Hornets To Unveil Name, Logo of D-League Team 


Saints QB Drew Brees confident he, Sean Payton will return next season 


Will Broncos play Osweiler or go with Manning in Week 17? 


Brock Osweiler to start for Broncos in Week 16, Peyton Manning inactive 


Saudi Arabia to raise its petrol prices by up to 40% 


Bills' Woods likely out for season with groin injury 
