2015-10~12
http://asia.nikkei.com/Politics-Economy/Policy-Politics/Liuzhou-bomber-said-to-have-died

Explosions in China: Liuzhou bomber said to have died- Nikkei Asian Review
BEIJING -- The suspect in a string of package bombings that killed 10 in southern China died in one of the blasts, the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported Friday.
     Public safety officials in the city of Liuzhou in the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region identified the suspect as 33-year-old local man Wei Yinyong based on surveillance video as well as DNA and other evidence collected at the scene, Xinhua reported. Previous reports had said the suspect was in custody.
     Based on preliminary findings, the suspect himself had delivered time bombs packed in parcels or used accomplices. Wei may have learned how to make explosives at the quarry where he worked, according to Chinese media. Although the bombings are said to have resulted from disputes with villagers and institutions, details have yet to be disclosed.
     Although the suspect had a name common among China's Zhuang minority group, Xinhua is not reporting personal details beyond his name, residence and age.
     The bombings began Wednesday, the eve of National Day. Government offices, a shopping center and a hospital were among the locations targeted, leaving roughly 60 people dead or injured. Another explosion occurred the next day in a residential area in Liuzhou. Though some raised the possibility of Uighur involvement in the attacks, authorities have ruled out terrorism.
You have limited access. To enjoy full access, subscribe now.
Your subscription renewal has not been processed.Please update your payment information and enjoy full access.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week

Your subscription renewal could not be processed. Please update your payment information to continue enjoying the Nikkei Asian Review.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week


 Nikkei Asian Review is the only publication that brings you Insight about Asia, from the inside out.
 XXcontractNameXX has enabled you free full access to Nikkei Asian Review.
