2015-10~12
http://www.economist.com/news/china/21679481-more-general-signs-crackdown-expression-article-guilty-spreading-panic-and

This article is guilty of spreading panic and disorder | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
IN THE middle of August Zhao Shaolin, a retired Communist Party boss of Jiangsu province in eastern China, was carted away by the country’s anti-corruption commission. Nothing unusual there. Dozens of local party bosses have fallen foul of a national anti-bribery campaign. What was surprising were the charges levelled against him. These usually stress the vast wealth the accused is said to have squirrelled away by his or her nefarious activities. Mr Zhao’s crime, according to Beijing News, a party newspaper, was to flout party discipline by criticising government policies. Some people, Xie Chuntao of the Central Party School sniffed, think “they are cleverer than the Party, which cannot be allowed.”
Mr Zhao was not the only one. In mid-October the anti-corruption commission arrested two serving provincial party chiefs, in Hebei near Beijing and Guangxi in the south. Their list of crimes also included criticising the party. On October 12th the Politburo approved a new edition of the party’s rules. It was, Xinhua, the state news agency, said, “the most complete and stringent code of conduct” in the history of the Communist Party. It bans party members from making “negative comments” or “irresponsible remarks” about policy. Members may debate issues—but only if they say nice things.
This stress on ideological conformity marks a return to older habits. In September 2013 Xi Jinping, China’s president, had called criticism and self-criticism “a powerful weapon…The more you use it, the more you improve the ability of leaders to discover and solve their problems.” Yet over the past few months, and not for the first time in the history of the People’s Republic of China, a more open debate has given way to tighter restrictions on expression, which has never been wholly free.
In his key speech last year on the arts, Mr Xi not only called for “positive energy” in the arts. He also slammed modern architecture and the emulation of western art. The timing of the speech made liberals uncomfortable. It was to celebrate the anniversary of a speech by Mao Zedong which paved the way for a spasm of violence called the Rectification Campaign in which 10,000 people died. Criticism of that monster Mao himself has again become unacceptable. After a popular television anchorman, Bi Fujian, was unwittingly filmed singing a parody of a Peking opera mocking the Great Helmsman, he was fired.
The media are feeling the chill. Last month Zhao Xinwei, the editor of Xinjiang Daily, was sacked, apparently for expressing worries about an anti-terrorist crackdown in the Muslim-majority province of Xinjiang in China’s far west. In August Wang Xiaolu of Caijing, a financial magazine, was paraded on state television and confessed to spreading “panic and disorder” during the summer’s stockmarket crash. His crime was to report that the China Securities Regulatory Commission was looking for ways to stop propping up the market.
At the same time, three of China’s last remaining liberal publications, Southern Weekend, Southern Metropolis and Southern Daily, collectively known as the Southern series, got a visit from the censors. A reporter who works there told the Committee to Protect Journalists, a lobby group in America, that the subsequent fawning coverage of a big military parade on China’s national day “killed the last bit of expectation and good impression that the public has for the Southern series.” Getting the message, 50 media organisations signed a “self-disciplinary pact” in September, promising not to “publish or spread opinions that damage the look of the party and our country.”
Summing up the expanding range of restrictions earlier this year, Freedom House, an American non-governmental organisation, said that out of 17 frequent objects of censorship—such as grassroots activists, professors and Tibetans—11 have faced more intense pressure under Mr Xi. Over 100 lawyers were rounded up in the summer. A group of feminists were arrested (then bailed) on charges of “provoking trouble”. In fact, they were drawing attention to sexual harassment on public transport. Academics are being told to watch their step.
Since he came to power in 2012, Mr Xi has repeatedly rejected insidious western ideas such as a free press and human rights. At the same time, however, he has balanced that tradition of command and control by occasionally talking about the importance of China’s constitution, a more liberal document. Three things are happening now to cause him to emphasise the control side of things.
First, his self-appointed task to clean up a rotten Communist Party is becoming ever more daunting. The anti-corruption campaign has netted thousands of high-ranking officials, and there is little sign that it is faltering. (As well as the first arrests of serving provincial bosses, this year has seen an expansion of the campaign to go after the bosses of state-owned enterprises.) Mr Xi may have concluded that restricting the opinions of party members is necessary in order to push his campaign forward.
Second, the government is trying to beef up controls over social media, which exploded just as Mr Xi was coming to power. New guidelines from the State Internet Information Office, issued in August, impose restrictions on China’s so-called microblogs (blogs published, for example, on WeChat, an instant-messaging service). Revisions to the criminal code which came into force in November make “spreading rumours” online punishable by up to seven years in prison—and the law does not specify what counts as a rumour. And a draft cyber-security law would require internet companies to restrict online anonymity and report ill-defined “security incidents” to the government.
Thirdly, it seems likely that a slowdown in the economy is reviving fears that labour or other forms of unrest could threaten the party’s grip on power. It claims legitimacy from the fact that living standards have risen fast for many years; as those standards rise more slowly, ordinary people may start to complain about their rulers. Party leaders feel that sort of thing should be pre-emptively squashed.
The Chinese president has called slower economic growth “the new normal”. Tighter controls on expression are becoming a new normal, too.
Worries about corporate myopia miss the point. Even in America, business is not dynamic enough
The new government in Poland has made an awful start
Suspects in Japanese police cells are far too vulnerable to abuse
Most campaigns against foreign plants and animals are pointless, and some are worse than that
As Congress hammers out yet another budget deal, future fiscal problems lurk
Donald Trump’s support will not collapse, but he is still a long-shot for the Republican...
A farmer-philosopher who confounds expectations about Islam and outsiders in the South
The impeachment proceedings against Dilma Rousseff are bad for Brazil. But they make it more likely...
A new breed of competition regulator takes on the cartels
An overreliance on confessions is undermining faith in the courts
Why you might prefer a Bangkok jail to one in Chiba
Beset by scandal, Najib Razak nevertheless seems safe in his job as Malaysia’s prime minister
China is using climate policy to push through domestic reforms
To defeat Islamic State, the West needs Sunni Arab allies. The price will be a clearer commitment to...
Ali al-Sistani is Iraq’s best hope of curbing Iranian influence. But he is 85 and has no obvious...
Robert Mugabe’s era is drawing to a close. But what comes next?
Two weeks in, Poland’s new government is making Europe nervous
Russia does not want a shooting war with Turkey. A trade war, maybe
Matteo Renzi wants to encourage people to use more cash. Bad idea
Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs agree on nothing except that the war is over
While Paris focuses on climate change, air pollution kills 400,000 Europeans a year
The strange spectacle of Sweden and Denmark sniping at each others’ immigration policies
Parliament votes to extend British action against Islamic State to Syria
As house prices go through the roof, Londoners explore beneath the floor
The government wants to change how it defines child poverty
Superstition and secrecy have created a problem police are struggling to tackle
Britain’s left must reject the anti-West reactionaries at the heart of its movement
Nobody likes an interloper. But invasive species are more benign than is generally thought—and...
Materials science is rapidly transforming the way that everything from cars to light bulbs is made,...
Engineering at the molecular level improves old materials as well as creating new ones
Carbon-fibre composites are making light work of aeroplanes, and now cars too
Additive manufacturing is a perfect way of using new materials
The boss of Autodesk reflects on the future of manufacturing
Though recycling will become more complicated, a much wider choice of materials will transform...
Life is getting better for those who expose wrongdoing, but companies continue to fight back—often...
Two court cases illustrate the struggles of employees who allege wrongdoing
The most successful drone firms could be those that do not make them
Getting children to take over the family business can be hard
The problems of banks in the developing world are more chronic than acute
The risks mean investors have to take climate change seriously
Regulation may hurt other financial firms, but health insurers thrive on it
Despite jitters, the oil-rich countries of the Gulf are unlikely to devalue
To get politicians to put a price on carbon, economists will have to accept some inefficiency
Limiting global warming to 2°C above pre-industrial levels is more a political target than a...
A new way to strip carbon from a fossil fuel
Body temperature seems, in part, to be controlled by gut bacteria
The best books this year are about North Korea, Detroit, Nagasaki and being a pilot
Robert Craft, conductor, musicologist and amanuensis of Stravinsky, died on November 10th, aged 92
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more