2015-10~12
http://www.aei.org/publication/china-and-japans-fight-against-isis/

China and Japan's fight against ISIS - AEI
“In close cooperation with France and the international community, Japan will continue in its efforts to prevent terrorism.” So averred Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe the day after the Paris massacre. In Beijing, meanwhile, a Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman made clear that “the Chinese government opposes all forms of terrorism and firmly cracks down on any violent and terrorist crime.” Behind the statements of both Japanese and Chinese officials lies the recognition that Islamic terrorism is creeping closer to home. Yet there the similarities end.
Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe carries a bouquet of flowers as he arrives at the Bataclan conert hall to pay tribute to the victims of the recent shooting attacks in Paris, France, November 29, 2015. Reuters
The hesitant responses of both Beijing and Tokyo reveal the limits to both countries’ ability to act as global leaders.
For China, radicalism is an issue of internal stability. Although Chinese citizens have been kidnapped or killed in Egypt, Iraq, Pakistan and Syria, among other places, the primary terror threats to Chinese citizens originate in the far-western Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region. Separatist movements among the Muslim-majority Uighur community rank as some of the highest priority concerns of the central government, the more so in that the steady increase in ethnic Han residents in Xinjiang has only stoked greater resentment.
Knife attacks by Uighur radicals are frequent, while bombings occurring sporadically as well. According to the University of Maryland’s Global Terrorism Database, over 48 terror attacks took place in China from 2008-2013. Among the more notable include the high-profile October 2013 attack Uighur terrorists conducted in the heart of Chinese power in Tiananmen Square, where they set their car on fire and drove into a crowd of tourists, killing two. More sanguinary attacks include last year’s massacre of 29 commuters and the wounding of 130 at a train station in the southwest Chinese city of Kunming by a gang of ten men armed with knives. A year later, this past March, knife-wielding attackers struck another train station, this one in eastern at the Guangzhou, killing 10.
Abroad, Iraqi security forces have captured Chinese insurgents on the battlefield. Chinese state run newspapers have claimed that up to 300 Uighur fighters have flocked to ISIS’ ranks, and a Chinese envoy to the Middle East stated that there could be around 100 Chinese fighters in Syria and Iraq. Such figures could, of course, be inflated to justify Beijing’s crackdown on Uighurs in Xinjiang, but there certainly are at least a small number of Chinese who have joined ISIS.
Chinese officials argue that the East Turkmenistan Islamic Movement (ETIM) of Uighur minorities is an ISIS collaborator or affiliate, although these claims are tenuous. ETIM cells have used the ungoverned tribal regions of Afghanistan and Pakistan to plan attacks on China, prompting close Chinese and Pakistani intelligence cooperation; however there is limited evidence of direct ETIM-ISIS ties. Nonetheless, Chinese officials have called on the international community to help them in destroying terrorist networks, including ETIM, thereby internationalizing their domestic anti-terrorism campaign.
If China is more actively engaged in countering a homegrown terrorist threat that is about internal politics, then Japan finds itself attempting to show support for the global community’s fight against ISIS without needlessly dragging itself into the crosshairs.
Japan has been largely spared Islamist terror against either its homeland or citizens. After two Japanese nationals were captured and beheaded by ISIS this January, Prime Minister Abe vowed “to hold [ISIS] responsible for their deplorable acts.” Yet public opinion polls taken in the aftermath of the murders made clear that the overwhelming majority of Japanese citizens were wary of any greater global engagement that would make Japan a more likely target for terrorism.
Japan’s concern over the domestic threat of terrorism is qualitatively different from China’s. With no Muslim ethnic minority that it oppresses, Japan faces no domestic separatist movement. However, as a major international tourist destination and the convener of major global gatherings, Tokyo recognizes that it is inherently at risk. Most notably, Japan will host the 42nd G7 Summit next May, and already, media reports are focusing on the government’s early preparations both to protect the G7 leaders and prevent any spill over terrorism inside the country.
And yet Abe is committed to expanding Japan’s global role and portraying the country as a defender of the open, rules-based order that underpins the global trade system. As an ally of the United States, Japan faces expectations that it will contribute to the maintenance of peace and security both regionally and globally.
While leaning forward in the fight against terror is politically sensitive at home, it is a prerequisite for being taken seriously by Washington and other major countries. The last time Tokyo tried to sit out a major international coalition, during the 1991 Gulf War, the damage to Japan’s global image was severe.
So far, the war against ISIS and other jihadist organizations has been waged with little overt support from either China or Japan. Yet as the threat from ISIS spreads out from the Middle East, an ever-wider campaign will emerge, and Asia is unlikely to be spared direct involvement.
The demands for Chinese and Japanese participation in the war against ISIS are a test of their aspirations to global leadership. It will be difficult for Beijing and Tokyo entirely to sit out the anti-ISIS fight. Nor will either be able solely to focus on purely domestic anti-terror considerations. They will come up against increasing calls to provide public goods in the form of financing, information sharing, and ultimately operations. That they are not yet willing to do so on a scale commensurate with their economies and political aspirations underscores how far the global community has yet to go in uniting against the scourge of ISIS.
What we do and still don’t know about the Paris attack