2015-10~12
http://www.juancole.com/2015/12/zuckerberg-stands-muslims.html

Mark Zuckerberg Stands With Muslims & Fox Slams Him
Cenk Uygur | (The Young Turks video report) | & Media Matters | – –
Fox co-hosts attack Mark Zuckerberg over expressing support for the Muslim community: https://t.co/c0M3YVpg7l pic.twitter.com/2yU4IHffhE
“Mark Zuckerberg recently put out a statement supporting Muslims throughout the world. Sure there may be economic motivations to this, but nonetheless the words ring honest and true. Cenk Uygur, hosts of the The Young Turks, break it down.
“The millennial innovator who got the world to share sonograms, goofy wedding photos, relationship statuses and innermost thoughts onFacebook is doing a lot of sharing himself these days.
Now Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of the site, has added his voice to one of the most contentious political issues of the moment, with a strong statement on Wednesday night in support of Muslims and Islam. Granted, his statement also made good business sense for Facebook. The site hasjust over one billion daily active users, many of them Muslims.”
“I want to add my voice in support of Muslims in our community and around the world.
After the Paris attacks and hate this week, I can only imagine the fear Muslims feel that they will be persecuted for the actions of others.
As a Jew, my parents taught me that we must stand up against attacks on all communities. Even if an attack isn’t against you today, in time attacks on freedom for anyone will hurt everyone.
If you’re a Muslim in this community, as the leader of Facebook I want you to know that you are always welcome here and that we will fight to protect your rights and create a peaceful and safe environment for you…”
Posted in American Jews,Muslim-Americans | 8 Responses | Print |
I hope most Americans agree with Mark Zuckerberg. No group of people of different ethnic or religious belief should be discriminated against or attacked by the press. FOX NEWS does not really qualify as a legitimate news station but unfortunately too many ignorant people watch that station and believe everything they hear is fact. They are the most prejudiced station on TV. The best way to deal with such ignorance is to tune out…if no one watched that station or paid attention to the likes of Donald Trump…they would soon wither up and disappear from sight.
Many Jews are fair and support freedom for others as well, and understand that Palestinians need peace and security and land. If Mark is true to his word he would (unlike Hillary Clinton and all the GOP POTUS candidates) also support the BDS campaign against Israel’s illegal occupation of Palestine, a non-violent protest NOT against Jews or Israel, but against its illegal and cruel occupation.
@TheYoungTurks There goes that Fox news Partnership LOL for the debates
@TheYoungTurks The Jewish-Muslim relations should be like Maimonides-Averroas relations. A collaboration for the good of all.
@marcylauren not a new org. Just pandering to the racist ilk that comprises their viewers and the right wing base
Zuckerberg is a rationalist, not a saint. A resumption of old-style holy wars and nationalist crusades disrupts his plans for global market penetration the same way that WW1 destroyed the laissez-faire imperialist hegemony of 1913, where capital was remarkably mobile. Everyone goes on a Chinese-style us-against-them footing and tries to wall off their fragment of the Internet.
But like the vast majority of US liberals (gentiles too), he’s unlikely to challenge the basic act of Zionist aggression that fuels everything else; the colonial conquest of Palestinian property.
I think Zuckerberg is a very good person and many of the responses are downright cynical. He didn’t have to say what he said – people would still keep using facebook even with his silence. And I don’t think he cares about money anymore. He made a statement because he believes in what is right.
Thank you to all of my supporters for your generosity and your encouragement of an independent press! Checks to
 Juan ColeP. O. Box 4218Ann Arbor, MI48106-4218 (No Parcels Please)
