2015-10~12
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/policies-politics/article/1879667/chinese-media-shine-light-little-known-counterterrorism

Chinese media shine light on little-known ‘counterterrorism leading group’ in Xinjiang | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Chinese media made public a formerly little known anti-terrorism body under the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps (XPCC) on Sunday, attracting attention to the unique state-run, semi-military organisation and its role in carrying out counterterrorism and other state policies in the far western region.
Officials from the “anti-terrorism leading group” of the XPCC attended a video conference with the national leading group on counterterrorism and the Public Security Ministry on Sunday, Xinhua reported.
The XPCC’s anti-terrorism leading group had seldom been reported in the media. But experts said the group had long existed as part of the country’s increasing efforts to fight terrorism.
Hundreds of people have died in unrest in Xinjiang  – home to roughly 10 million Turkic-speaking Uygur Muslims – and other parts of China over the past three years.
Beijing blames the violence on Islamist militants, led by the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), which it says is tied to al Qaeda.
Speaking in Antalya, Turkey, on Sunday on the sidelines of the Group of 20 summit, Foreign Minister Wang Yi  said the struggle against Islamist militants in Xinjiang should become an important part of the world’s war on terror, following the deadly terror attacks in Paris on Friday night.
“China is also a victim of terrorism, and cracking down on ETIM should become an important part of the international fight against terrorism,” Xinhua quoted him as saying.
Rights groups and exiles say the violence stems from widespread resentment among Uygurs at Chinese curbs on their religion and culture rather than an organised militant group.
In the face of worsening unrest in Xinjiang in recent years, Beijing has taken a hard line on fighting terrorism.
It set up a national anti-terrorism leading group – chaired by Minister of Public Security Guo Shengkun  – in August, 2013, to replace the earlier anti-terrorism “coordination group”. Analysts said the new group was as an “upgrade” because it had a stronger leading role and wider duties.
Provincial-level administrations soon followed suit, setting up their own leading groups on counterterrorism.
Because the XPCC was a provincial-level organisation, it was natural that it had its own leading group on counterterrorism, said Li Wei, an anti-terrorism expert at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations.
“Because the XPCC is on the same administrative level as the Xinjiang autonomous region, it is also responsible for maintaining stability in Xinjiang, especially specific regions under its governance,” Li said.
The XPCC, a legacy from the Mao Zedong  era, was founded in the 1954 using demobilised soldiers on work farms in the far west.
Today it runs businesses including real estate, insurance, plastics and cement across the region, and fulfils government roles such as health care and education for areas under its jurisdiction.
The State Council released a white paper on the construction corps on its 60th anniversary last October, which stressed that the organisation played a special role in safeguarding unification and cracking down on terrorist violence.