2015-10~12
http://funs.co/view/2015/10/24/naked-burglar-crawls-armed-mans-bed/

Naked Burglar Crawls Armed Man’s Bed | Funs.co
A man broke into a house, took of his clothes, climbed into a couples bed while they were sleeping, and kissed a man. Though the burglar was armed with a knife, the man fought back, grabbed his gun, and fired at the intruder while he fled. The home invader has been arrested. Cenk Uygur, Jimmy Dore (The Jimmy Dore Show), Lissette Padilla, and Kelly Carlin hosts of The Young Turks discuss.
Is this a case where gun ownership makes sense? Would you have shot at the intruder? Let us know in the comments below.
“An Oregon man was arrested Thursday after he broke into a Portland home, stripped naked, crawled into bed with the couple who live there and kissed the man — who turned out to have a gun — police said.
Richard Dean Defeudis in an arrest photo Thursday. Multnomah County, Oregon, Jail
Richard Dean Defeudis, 32, was held on $310,000 bail in the Multnomah County Jail pending arraignment Friday on charges of first- and second-degree burglary, first-degree sex abuse and unlawful use of a weapon.
An incident report says Defeudis broke into the home about 3:40 a.m. (6:40 a.m. ET) Thursday and began gathering items of value.”
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.