2015-01~03
http://www.saharasamay.com/world-news/676567288/china-arrests-21-for-helping-uygurs-travel-to-syria-to-join-isla.html

China arrests 21 for helping Uygurs travel to Syria to join Islamic state
Serbia's Novak Djokovic decisively beat Canada's Milos Raonic 6-2, 6-0 in just an hour and
Twenty one people, including 10 Turks and a wanted terrorist, have been arrested by China for aiding radical Uygurs from the volatile Xinjiang region travel abroad to Syria, Afghanistan and Pakistan to join the dreaded Islamic State militant group.

    Nine alleged militants from Xinjiang were intercepted while trying to leave China illegally via the Shanghai Pudong Airport in November, state-run Global Times reported today.  The report said the nine were helped by 10 Turks who provided them fake Turkish passports in a plot to smuggle them to their eventual destinations in Syria, Afghanistan, and Pakistan.
The nine, along with a wanted Uygur terrorist and another person, were held for organising, leading and participating in militant organisations, it quoted officials as saying.The 10 Turkish nationals were arrested for making arrangements to illegally cross national borders, it said.
An investigation showed the suspects, including an Uygur living in Turkey and a Turkish suspect, charged 60,000 yuan (USD 9,680) per person for nine persons departing from the Shanghai Pudong International Airport.
They also paid USD 2,000 each to nine Turkish people to get visas with fake invitation letters at the Chinese Embassy
in Turkey.Terror-related videos were found on the suspects' phones,with one having recordings meant to incite discrimination and ethnic hatred, the report said.
Some confessed that they planned to go to Syria,Afghanistan and Pakistan, it said.The case is under investigation, and has drawn attention from Chinese authorities for its well-structured planning,rigorous organisation, and trans-national collaboration.
 The arrests came in the backdrop of reports that Uygur youths were leaving China illegally to make their way to join jihadists in Syria and Iraq via Turkey, with the intent of committing terror acts in China, the report said. Uygurs, who number around 11 million in Xinjiang, are a Turkic-speaking and mostly Muslim ethnic minority.
 They have long expressed resentment over Chinese control and settlement of Han people in the restive region that
borders Afghanistan and the Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.Xinjiang has often experienced terror attacks staged by alQaeda-backed East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) which also has bases in Pakistan's volatile tribal areas.
 On January 12, Chinese police killed six militants stated to be suicide bombers in Xinjiang's Shule County. Two days before that, the local legislature in Xinjiang endorsed the ban on burqas in public places in the regional 
capital of Urumqi, stating it is not the traditional dress of Uygur women.
super luxury car maker Rolls-Royce is gearing up to tap the country's Billionaires with ne
Coming-of-age drama 'Boyhood' won three of the biggest awards at the BAFTA 2015 but it was
Sunny Leone is seen scorching the screen in the first look of Leela with her bold acts.
Samsung unveiled the Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, S
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian reportedly wants Beyonce to buy a house in her gated commun
Automaker Renault India today said it will roll-out a multi-purpose vehicle 'Lodgy' and a
Pharma tycoon Dilip Shanghvi surpassed Mukesh Ambani as the world's richest Indian with a
When Holi is round the corner, can anyone forget all-time hit Bollywood songs?
In an interim order, the Bombay High Court has restrained the city police from arresting o
Good news for the fans’ of Salman Khan and Deepika Padukone.
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian has posed nude for the upcoming 10th season of 'Keeping Up
Bollywood superstar Akshay Kumar and Actress cum Entrepreneur Shilpa Shetty Kundra have pa
Kashmir witnessed season's heaviest snowfall as the arterial Jammu-Srinagar National Highw
Mexican actress Stephanie Sigman has joined Monica Bellucci and Lea Seydoux as the new bon
Luxury carmaker Mercedes-Benz launched the all-new compact B-Class in both petrol and dies
Bollywood actor Poonam Pandey, gets relief as a local court in Bengaluru quashed a case pe
Automaker Renault India launched the new generation Duster priced at Rs 8.30 lakh (Delhi e
Now Bollywood A-list actors are competing to get nude on-screen.
The 2015 edition of the International Indian Film Academy Awards is set to enthrall Bollyw


India defeated Zimbabwe by six wickets chasing 288 runs target in World Cup Match.
Short filmmaker Ullhas PR on Monday filed a police complaint against Bollywood superstar A
A rare three-feet-long flying snake was spotted in Coimbatore district’s Kalampalayam v
ASUS has created an online game for its ZenFone Zoom smartphone which allows participants