2015-01~03
http://www.post-gazette.com/news/world/2015/03/31/Ex-general-widens-lead-in-Nigeria-vote/stories/201503310172

World briefs: Ex-general widens lead in Nigeria vote | Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
ABUJA, Nigeria — Nigerian opposition leader Muhammadu Buhari built a lead of 2.5 million votes with only six states uncounted on Monday, raising the prospect of a stunning ballot box victory for a man who first came to power three decades ago via a military coup.
According to results collated by Reuters, Mr. Buhari, a 72-year-old former general who campaigned as a born-again democrat, had notched up 12.9 million votes. This compared to 10.2 million for President Goodluck Jonathan, whose five years at the helm have been plagued by corruption scandals and a bloody insurgency by Islamist Boko Haram militants.
Secretary of State John Kerry and British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said in a joint statement after the weekend vote that there were worrying signs of political interference in the tallying of the results.
JERUSALEM — Former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert was convicted Monday of unlawfully accepting money from supporter and U.S. businessman Morris Talansky in a retrial on corruption charges, the latest chapter in the downfall of a man who only years earlier hoped to lead the country to a historic peace agreement with the Palestinians.
The conviction could land Mr. Olmert five years in prison, in addition to a six-year prison sentence he received last year in a separate bribery conviction.
Mr. Olmert’s 2009 departure cleared the way for hard-liner Benjamin Netanyahu’s election.
DHAKA, Bangladesh — A man targeted for his comments about Islam on social media, Oyasiqur Rhaman, was killed in a machete attack by a group of men Monday, in the second such killing in Bangladesh’s capital in five weeks, the police said.
The killing was strikingly similar to one at the end of last month, when a group of men attacked Avijit Roy, a blogger of Bangladeshi origin who was based in the United States and who critiqued fundamentalist Islam on his website.
TOKYO — Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said he hopes for a summit with China and South Korea in a rare conversation with South Korean President Park Geun-hye after the funeral for Lee Kuan Yew in Singapore.
Mr. Park has refused to hold a bilateral summit with Mr. Abe until he does more to atone for Japan’s wartime aggression and addresses the issue of comfort women who were forced to serve in Japanese military brothels. The division between the U.S.’s biggest allies in the region comes at a time of growing tensions over China’s rise and the North Korean nuclear threat.
President Barack Obama will visit Kenya in July, his first to that nation as U.S. president, for a global entrepreneurship summit, the White House said Monday. … Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations used a visit to Baghdad on Monday to warn the Iraqi government to treat civilians decently after it liberates territories like Tikrit. … A Muslim was jailed for six years in China for refusing to shave off his beard, while his wife was imprisoned for two years for wearing a burqa, as part of a severe crackdown on religious “extremism” in the far-western province of Xinjiang, local media reported.