2015-01~03
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/231347607

Turkey-China wrangle over suspected Uighurs detained in Thailand - China National News
Russia warns US against sending missile defence system to South Korea A family of suspected Uighur Muslims, among hundreds detained in Thailand since last year, will Friday learn their fate in a court case that has sparked a diplomatic wrangle between Turkey and China. Both countries are seeking the repatriation of the family, who use the surname Teklimakan and claim they are Turkish. They were detained by Thai police in March 2014 after illegally entering the country along its eastern border with Cambodia. That same month dozens of migrants also thought to be from China's mostly Muslim Uighur minority were discovered during a raid on a suspected people-smuggling camp in the kingdom's deep south and sentenced for illegal entry. They similarly presented themselves to police as Turkish. The 17 Teklimakan family members -- including 13 children of whom two were born in custody -- were issued passports by the Turkish embassy while in detention. But...
New Delhi, March 20 (IANS) Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday opened an exhibition here on how Parsi traders used gains from trade with China to lay the foundation of Mumbai as India's financial capital.
The exhibition, "Painted Encounters: Parsi Traders and the Community", traces through paintings, engravings and photographs the growth of Parsi traders who built ships for trade with Canton in the 19th century.
Parsi merchants hailing from hamlets in Gujarat and rich from the China trade commissioned Indian and European artists to paint portraits and were known patrons of these art forms.
Leading Parsi traders boosted capital accumulation and helped shape 19th century Bombay (now Mumbai) to emerge as an international financial metropolis.
The exhibition has been curated by Pheroza J. Godrej and Firoza Punthakey Mistree.
Another exhibition, "No Parsi is an Island", is a curatorial re-reading of the work of 14 Parsi artists across 150 years. It has been curated by Ranjit Hoskote and Nancy Adajania with Pheroza J. Godrej.
"The Parsi community is an integral and important part of our national history and identity," said Rajeev Lochan, director of the National Gallery of Modern Art where the exhibitions will end on May 29.
"Unfortunately, time and again, they have been regarded as 'others' by many. This exhibition is crucial in highlighting that they are as much a part of our collective past, present and future," he said.

BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
Kathmandu, Mar. 21 (ANI): Nepal has signed a host of agreement, including free trade agreement ...
Beijing, Mar. 21 (ANI): Indonesian Minister for Fisheries and Maritime Affairs, Susi Pudjiastuti, has said ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved