2015-01~03
http://www.afghanistansun.com/index.php/sid/229299333

Kyrgyzstan Sends Three Who Crossed Border Back To China - Afghanistan Sun
BISHKEK -- Kyrgyz authorities have returned three Chinese citizens to Chinese authorities after detaining them last week for crossing the border illegally.
The commander of a Kyrgyz border guard unit in the northeastern city of Karakol, Ruslan Zakirov, told RFE/RL that the three men -- two ethnic Kyrgyz and an Uyghur -- had been returned to China on January 11 on the basis of a local court's ruling.
Kyrgyz border guards detained the men on January 7. They had no identification documents but said they were natives of Kyzyl-Su Kyrgyz prefecture in China's Xinjiang region.
Last January, eleven men from Xinjiang who were armed with knives killed a Kyrgyz forest ranger after crossing the border and were later killed by Kyrgyz security forces.
Along with Uyghurs, Xinjiang has indigenous populations of ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz and Tajiks who live mainly in districts bordering those three Central Asian countries.
China has cracked down on Muslim Uyghurs in recent years.
Copyright (c) 2014. RFE/RL, Inc. Republished with the permission of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 1201 Connecticut Ave NW, Ste 400, Washington DC 20036
Mumbai, March 20 (IANS) Despite their 37-run win over Afghanistan in a World Twenty20 encounter, South Africa skipper Faf du Plessis on Sunday stressed that his team needs to work and improve their bowling specially when it comes to powerplay.
Batting first, the Proteas posted 209/5 in 20 overs, which included crucial knocks from De Villiers (64 off 29), Quinton de Kock (45) and Faf du Plessis (41).
In reply, despite opener Mohammad Shahzad's blistering 19-ball 44 at the start, Afghanistan lost wickets at regular intervals and were bundled out for 172 in 20 overs.
"We need to be better and improve our bowling. Our skill level is letting us down. It is a big challenge for the bowlers in the first six overs. Those are the areas we need to improve. Last match against England bowlers went for plenty in the first six this match also went for runs," Du Plessis said at the post-match press conference.
For South Africa, Chris Morris (4/27), Imran Tahir (2/24), Kyle Abbott (2/36) and Kagiso Rabada (2/37) were the pick of the bowlers.
Praising Morris for his four-wicket haul, the skipper said: "It was not an easy wicket to bowl on. Today Morris showed good discipline and good intensity. There is a lot of learning for me to see how Chris bowled today. It is important for all the bowlers to get back the confidence. Great result for Morris."
Following the team's loss to England in their opening match, speedster Dale Steyn was dropped from the side against Afghanistan.
Asked about the reason behind the inclusion of bowling all-rounder David Weise in place of Steyn, the 31-year-old said: "The thinking behind the wicket is that there is not much swing in the wicket in the first six overs. And as Dale is quite a skiddy bowler, the wicket like this, the thinking was that the wicket won't suit him that much."
"It is not a Mumbai wicket where there is pace and bounce, it just skids through. We wanted to bring a guy like David Weise who can bowl a bit of variation and can also bat at seven or eight when required," du Plessis concluded.

Mumbai, Mar.20 (ANI): South Africa's swashbuckling batsman AB de Villiers smashed a quick-fire half-century before ...
Cape Town - South Africa may have to significantly restructure their team if JP Duminy ...
Cape Town - The Proteas have beaten Afghanistan by 37 runs in a ICC World ...
Cape Town - Lead by a lightning fast 64 by AB de Villiers, the Proteas ...
Cape Town - Proteas batsman, Hashim Amla, is confident the bowlers will bounce back from ...
Get the latest Afghanistan Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Afghanistan Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved