2014-07~09
http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/News-of-the-day-From-Across-the-Globe-Aug-2-5663729.php

News of the day From Across the Globe, Aug. 2 - SFGate
1 Iraq deaths: The United Nations says 1,737 people, mostly civilians, were killed in Iraq in July, marking a dramatic decline from the previous month, when some 2,400 people were killed as Sunni militants swept across large parts of the country, capturing the second largest city Mosul. The militant advance largely ground to a halt last month as the insurgents approached Shiite-majority areas.
2 Detained Americans: Two American tourists charged with "antistate" crimes in North Korea said Friday they expect to be tried soon and pleaded for help from the U.S. government to secure their release from what they say could be long prison terms. In their first appearance since being detained more than three months ago, Matthew Todd Miller and Jeffrey Edward Fowle said they were in good health and were being treated well. North Korea has also been holding another American, Kenneth Bae, since November 2012.
3 Border closure: Tunisia closed its main border crossing with Libya on Friday after thousands of stranded Egyptian and foreign nationals, fleeing militias' fighting and violence in Libya, tried to break through the passage, the Tunisian news agency said. It was the second eruption of unrest at the border in as many days, as thousands of Libyans stream into neighboring Tunisia, along with foreign nationals. Tunisia is the only escape route as fighting escalates in the Libyan capital, Tripoli, where rival militias have been battling for weeks for control over the airport.
4 Pot market: Uruguay's plan to create the world's first national, government-regulated marketplace for legal pot may be going up in smoke. Delays in implementing the plan are putting it at risk as polls point to opposition gains in October general elections and show most Uruguayans oppose a legal pot marketplace. Opposition politicians have said they will seek to repeal or modify the legislation, which gives the national government power to oversee the production, sales and consumption of marijuana.
5 Algeria quake: Algerian officials say six people are dead and 420 injured following an earthquake that shook Algiers Friday. Algeria's health ministry says four of the victims died after jumping from windows in panic. Authorities say two more people died of heart attacks during the quake, which measured 5.6 on the Richter scale.
6 Xinjiang violence: China said nine suspects were killed Friday and another captured in a police action in the restive northwestern region of Xinjiang that follows a wave of militant violence. The official Xinhua News Agency described those killed and captured as "terror suspects" but gave no other details. Xinjiang has experienced rising violence in recent months pitting the authorities against militants from the region's native Muslim Turkic Uighur ethnic group who are seeking to overthrow Chinese rule over their resource-rich homeland. China says the militants are Islamic extremists linked to jihadi groups abroad.
7 Alcohol rehab: An Iranian semiofficial news agency says the country has opened its first, state-run alcoholism rehab and treatment center. A report Friday by the ISNA news agency says Iran's first alcoholism treatment center was inaugurated in at the Tehran University's Medical School. Drinking alcohol is illegal for Muslims under Iran's strict Islamic teachings but there is open violation of the law.