2014-07~09
http://www.worldbulletin.net/news/145306/uighur-academics-prison-sentence-shows-chinese-oppression

Uighur academic's prison sentence shows Chinese oppression | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
The World Uighur Congress chairwoman Rebiya Khadeer called China's sentencing of an Uighur professor to life in prison last week "a declaration of war."
Ilham Tohti, 45, a prominent economics lecturer at a Beijing university, was arrested in January and accused of promoting the separation of Xinjiang (East Turkestan) from the People’s Republic.
Speaking to The Anadolu Agency in Washington on Friday, Rebiya said the Chinese court decision was "declaring a war against Uighurs" and showed the real face of the Chinese oppression. 
"China sends the message both to Uighur and the world that you will be punished no matter how you go after your rights, whether you fight with weapons or you seek them in a peaceful way," Rebiya told the AA following an international conference on Uighur history, culture and society held at the George Washington University. 
Rebiya said that the court sentenced Tothi to life in prison in order to silence the Uighur not to voice their legitimate rights. 
"We told the world that China unjustly punishes us for we peacefully seek our rights, but the world did not believe in that. Now, the imprisonment of Tohti showed the world what we were really talking about," Rebiya said. "Now the world will believe in us." 
The Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking Muslim minority who make up 60 percent of the population of the Xinjiang Autonomous Region. They have long protested against clampdowns on religious freedoms and the influx of ethnic Han migrants to the region.
 Tohti was tried at the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region Urumqi Public Court last week. The trial was closed to the media and observers. 
He rejected all accusations against him but the Chinese court confiscated all his properties and sentenced him to life in prison. 
The World Uighur Congress is the self-proclaimed government in exile.
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing'
Chinese police raided 148 points in Muslim Xinjiang in 2014
China opens separatism trial for students of jailed Uighur scholar
China court sentences Uighur scholar to life in prison -UPDATED
Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

UN sees need for space travel rules within 5 years

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
