2014-07~09
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/6101/20140808/blocking-social-messaging-apps-china-s-way-combat-terrorism.htm

Blocking Social Messaging Apps: China’s Way to Combat Terrorism : Society : Chinatopix
South Korean authorities confirmed that China authorities blocked social messaging apps to fight terrorism on Thursday.
South Korea's Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning stated that China had confirmed several foreign messaging applications which were used to exchange terrorism-related information.
The ministry said that China has strong evidence indicating terrorist organizations' usage of video websites and mobile messaging in plotting attacks and spreading information on how bombs are made.
There was no further detail given as to how the government acquired access to messages between users of the blocked messaging applications.
China's restriction on messaging services was declared as part of the government's terrorism curbing measures.
Several incidents testing China's security had occurred which was then followed by a series of terrible attacks putting the government on the edge. Chinese authorities are blaming Islamic radicals on these attacks who seek independence on Xinjiang.
Currently, the ministry is in a continuous negotiation with their Chinese counterparts in ensuring that service disruptions for KakaoTalk and Line will be resolved soon.
Among the applications that were blocked are Kakaotalk, Line, Didi, Vower and Talk Box. Service disruptions on these were experience by users since July 1. The time when anti-censorship groups declared that government was trying to obstruct information about pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong.
Chinese government maintains tight control over the Internet and YouTube and Twitter were also blocked through a system known as "Great Firewall."
KakaoTalk is operated by KaKao Corp from South Korea while Line is run by a Japanese-based company, a subsidiary of South Korea's Naver Corp.
A spokeswoman from South Korea's Kakao Corp and Naver Corp acknowledge China's decision in blocking their services and declined to give any further comment on the matter.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent MacBook Pro 2016 rumors revealed more potential features of the upcoming Apple laptop. read more