2014-07~09
http://www.indiagazette.com/index.php/sid/226214535

China’s sentencing of a critic - India Gazette
Ilham Tohti, an Uighur scholar known as an advocate for the rights of Muslim Uighur people, was sentenced to life in prison last week by a court in Urumqi, the capital of the Xinjiang region in northwestern China, on charges of preaching separatism. It was an unusually severe punishment to hand down to a moderate, peaceful intellectual. It reflects Chinese authorities’ hard line on ethnic minorities who increasingly express frustration with majority Han Chinese rule. The Chinese leaders should realize that such an approach will not succeed in containing the resistance of Uighur people. ...
Mumbai, Mar.20 (ANI): The Custom officials on Sunday seized 146 tortoises from a mishandled baggage of a Nepal citizen at the Mumbai airport.
The incident happened when the Jet Airways staff brought one left behind baggage to officers of Air Intelligence Unit (AIU), saying that some suspicious images (shell like) had been noticed by GVK Security.
This bag was said to belong to a transit passenger, who arrived from Madagascar and flew to Kathmandu leaving this bag behind. Officers of Air Intelligence Unit examined the bag and recovered and seized 146 tortoises.
Out of the 146 tortoises, 139 were Radiated tortoises (Astrochelys radiata) and seven were Angonoka tortoises (Astrochelys yniphora), both critically endangered tortoise species of Madagascar.
Since these were exotic species and cannot be introduced into India and because of quarantine reasons, as informed by wild life authorities, the airlines have been instructed to re-export the same to Madagascar under intimation to wildlife authorities there. (ANI)

Geneva 21 March 2016 (WMO) - The year 2015 made history, with shattered temperature records, ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): The Government of India which accords utmost importance to the ...
New Delhi, March 21 (ANI): Kathak Kendra, New Delhi, returned with "Maharaj Kalka Bindadeen Kathak ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): The Delhi Government has come up with the second phase ...
Get the latest India Gazette headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 India Gazette - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved