2014-07~09
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-09-19/china-separatism-trial-of-muslim-scholar-ends/5756244

Chinese Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti's separatism trial ends; verdict next week - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)
China's trial of a Uighur scholar on separatism charges has concluded two days of evidence, and his lawyer says a verdict in the case, that has drawn international criticism, might come next week.
Prosecutors in China's western Xinjiang region said economics Professor Ilham Tohti, an advocate for the rights of the Muslim Uighur ethnic group, had promoted independence for the region on a website he managed called Uighurbiz.net.
The charge carries a maximum penalty of death in extreme cases, although Tohti's lawyers say he faces the prospect of a lengthy prison sentence.
The United States, the European Union and human rights groups have called for Tohti's release after a nine-month detention widely seen as part of a government crackdown on dissent in Xinjiang, where tension between Uighurs and majority Han Chinese has led to violence.
Tohti was on Thursday able to speak in his defence, his lawyer Li Fangping said, telling the court that he established the website to promote dialogue between Uighur and Han scholars and that he had publicly opposed separatism and violence.
"They heard him, but whether they will consider it is hard to know," Mr Li told Reuters by telephone from Xinjiang's capital Urumqi where the trial was held.
Tohti rejected the prosecution's evidence and said statements against him by student volunteers who had worked on the website were made under pressure from authorities, Mr Li said earlier.
Mr Li said the students had been held in solitary jail cells with their legs shackled and that Tohti had expressed understanding for their predicament and testimony.
"It's difficult to say what the upcoming verdict will be. But the prosecutors were comparatively harsh, and they called for a more serious verdict," Mr Li said.
"If it is quick, it will come next week," Mr Li said.
China's ruling Communist Party tightly controls courts, and guilty verdicts in such cases are common.
The government blames a series of violent attacks in which hundreds have died on Islamist militants who it says, want to establish an independent state in Xinjiang called East Turkestan.
Activists said the government's repressive policies, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest.
Tohti, who taught at Beijing's Minzu University, which specialises in ethnic minority studies, has said he never associated with any terrorist organisation or foreign-based group and has "relied only on pen and paper to diplomatically request" human rights and legal rights for Uighurs.
On Wednesday, a court in the south-western province of Yunnan sentenced four people to between 10 and 20 years in jail for "plotting terror attacks", state media said. All four had Uighur names.
Last week, three people were sentenced to death and one to life in prison for a March attack at Kunming train station in Yunnan in which 31 people died and 141 were injured.
The Xinhua news agency reported last week that Shen Deyong, the executive vice president of China's Supreme People's Court, had urged judges to "speed up trials of terror cases and deliver exemplary penalties".

 First posted 
 
 September 19, 2014 15:35:47
 

For information on how you can help, visit abc.net.au/appeals or call 1800 811 700.
If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC.
The PM's manoeuvres over the budget, double dissolution and industrial relations legislation have a familiar Turnbullian feel.
Unless you make plans and talk to loved ones you're unlikely to have any say in how and where you die.
In a fast-changing competition, which AFL teams can improve enough to break into this year's top eight?
From the thin blue line on the pregnancy test to the flat line on the ECG — every day Australia's healthcare system pays witness to the highs and heartbreaking lows of human life.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.


AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)
