2014-07~09
http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/ilham-tohti-the-professor-who-terrifies-beijing/2014/09/25/1711a100-4349-11e4-b437-1a7368204804_story.html?wprss=rss_opinions

Ilham Tohti, the professor who terrifies Beijing - The Washington Post
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
ILHAM TOHTI is a respected professor of economics, a moderate leader of an oppressed minority group in China and an advocate of gradual, nonviolent reform. He is also, as of Tuesday, a dangerous criminal in the eyes of China’s Communist Party facing an astonishingly draconian sentence of life in prison.
Mr. Tohti is a Uighur. Uighurs mostly live in far western China and are Muslim, ethnically closer to the Turkic peoples of central Asia than to Han Chinese. Like Tibetans to the south, many of them fear that China is trying to eradicate them as a distinct group, in part by encouraging Han Chinese to move into their traditional homelands.
China’s leaders say they believe the far western province of Xinjiang is becoming a hotbed of violent separatism and Islamist-inspired terrorism. Uighur separatists have committed several acts of horrifying violence against civilians. The Communist Party’s response, as The Post’s Simon Denyer illustrated in an eye-opening account a few days ago, has been to declare “an all-out war on conservative Islam.” Residents of western China said that police go from house to house arresting women wearing veils and forcing men to eat during Ramadan’s fasting days. It’s hard to conceive of a strategy more prone to alienate and embitter a minority population.
Mr. Tohti’s life sentence for separatism is of a piece with this counterproductive approach. “Tohti has consistently, courageously, and unambiguously advocated peacefully for greater understanding and dialogue between various communities, and with the state,” said Sophie Richardson, China director of Human Rights Watch. “If this is Beijing’s definition of ‘separatist’ activities, it’s hard to see tensions in Xinjiang and between the communities decreasing.”
The Tohti sentence conforms with China’s increasingly ferocious crackdown on civil society in general. Over the past decade and with gathering force since the ascension of President Xi Jinping 18 months ago, the Communist Party has been surveilling, harassing and imprisoning anyone it sees as even a potential challenge to its dictatorial rule. Mr. Xi says he wants to elevate the “rule of law,” but courageous advocates who try to live by that principle — men such as Gao Zhisheng (until recently imprisoned), Teng Biao (driven into exile) and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Liu Xiaobo (in prison) — have been particular targets.
By crushing the moderate center from Beijing to Xinjiang, the party may succeed in fulfilling its own prophecy, so that it can claim to be the only alternative to radical Islamism (in the west) or anarchy (in China at large). In that sense, the crackdown may strengthen the party’s hold on power in the short term. For the nation’s long-term health, the path is a destructive one.
If most Americans are only dimly aware of the increasing repression in the world’s most populous nation, it is partly because President Obama and his administration have been so painfully reticent on the subject. We hope that Secretary of State John F. Kerry’s statement on Tuesday that “the United States is deeply disturbed” by Mr. Tohti’s sentence foreshadows a new commitment to speaking out.
Chen Guangcheng: Still waiting on China to honor its pledges
Teng Biao: Gao Zhisheng is out of prison but not free
Success! Check your inbox for details. You might also like:
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses!
Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games!
Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve.