2014-07~09
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/224755947

Chinese activist 'utterly destroyed' after three years of imprisonment, says Lawyer - China National News
Prominent Chinese lawyer and activist, Gao Zhisheng's counsel has reportedly said that three years of imprisonment has 'utterly destroyed' him.
Zhisheng's international lawyer, Jared Gensher, said that he was unintelligible and had lost teeth due to malnutrition after the Chinese activist was released from prison in Xinjiang province last week, reported the BBC.
The 50-year-old Chinese is a prominent human rights lawyer who has been detained several times in the past by the Chinese government for defending the rights of minorities and activists and for criticizing the ruling Communist Party of China openly.
A United States-based advocacy group, Freedom Now said in a report that Zhisheng was tortured psychologically and physically and had lost almost 20 kg in weight because of his daily ration of cabbage and a slice of bread. He was also confined to a dark, cramped cell and was denied any human contact until his release.
Zhisheng's wife, Geng He, said that her husband had been devastated by what the Chinese government had done to him and urged the authorities to allow him to seek treatment in the U.S.
The activist was nominated for the Nobel Prize for his work in 2008. (ANI)
New Delhi, March 20 (IANS) Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday opened an exhibition here on how Parsi traders used gains from trade with China to lay the foundation of Mumbai as India's financial capital.
The exhibition, "Painted Encounters: Parsi Traders and the Community", traces through paintings, engravings and photographs the growth of Parsi traders who built ships for trade with Canton in the 19th century.
Parsi merchants hailing from hamlets in Gujarat and rich from the China trade commissioned Indian and European artists to paint portraits and were known patrons of these art forms.
Leading Parsi traders boosted capital accumulation and helped shape 19th century Bombay (now Mumbai) to emerge as an international financial metropolis.
The exhibition has been curated by Pheroza J. Godrej and Firoza Punthakey Mistree.
Another exhibition, "No Parsi is an Island", is a curatorial re-reading of the work of 14 Parsi artists across 150 years. It has been curated by Ranjit Hoskote and Nancy Adajania with Pheroza J. Godrej.
"The Parsi community is an integral and important part of our national history and identity," said Rajeev Lochan, director of the National Gallery of Modern Art where the exhibitions will end on May 29.
"Unfortunately, time and again, they have been regarded as 'others' by many. This exhibition is crucial in highlighting that they are as much a part of our collective past, present and future," he said.

BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
Kathmandu, Mar. 21 (ANI): Nepal has signed a host of agreement, including free trade agreement ...
Beijing, Mar. 21 (ANI): Indonesian Minister for Fisheries and Maritime Affairs, Susi Pudjiastuti, has said ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved