2014-07~09
http://www.nigeriasun.com/index.php/sid/226061173

China Details Accusations against Uighur Scholar Convicted of Separatism - Nigeria Sun
China is outlining what it says is evidence that led to the separatism conviction against and life imprisonment of a prominent Uighur scholar.
There has been widespread international condemnation of this week's conviction of Ilham Tohti, an economics professor who pushed for greater rights for the minority Uighurs.
The United States, European Union, and several major international human rights groups have urged China to release Tohti, who they say was a strident but peaceful critic of Beijing.
An article in the official Xinhua news agency attempted to dispel that notion Thursday, portraying the professor as an extremist who encouraged his students to commit acts of violence.
Xinhua said prosecutors presented video footage showing Tohti urging his students to fight the Chinese government, which he allegedly called a "devil to the Uighur people."
The article also quoted unnamed witnesses who said Tohti "had been behind over 100 articles advocating separatism" on his Uighur Online website, which the government shut down.
Tohti's lawyer, Li Fangping, disputed many of the pieces of alleged evidence presented by Xinhua, saying the comments were inaccurate or misinterpreted.
Li told the French news agency that he has lodged a complaint on the grounds that it is illegal to publish evidence before Tohti has had a chance to appeal.
Li also said Chinese authorities also did not allow him to access the evidence before the trial because officials said it was "too sensitive."
A Chinese official in charge of ethnic affairs, Luo Liming, insisted Thursday that Tohti's sentencing "was carried out by the judiciary based on our state laws and regulations."
The 45-year-old Tohti has for decades given lectures, written articles, and commented to foreign media about China's treatment of the mostly Muslim Uighurs in the restive region of Xinjiang.
China has severely restricted Muslim religious life and traditional culture in Xinjiang. Many Uighurs also complain of what they say is preferential treatment towards the country's Han majority, which have flooded to the region.
Xinjiang has seen a rising number of violent attacks in recent years that have killed hundreds of people. Most of the attacks were initially directed at state targets, but now also frequently target civilians.
Beijing blames foreign-backed Muslim fighters who it says are trying to form an independent state in Xinjiang. Many exiled Uighur groups say the violence is prompted by China's treatment of Uighurs.
New Delhi, March 20 (IANS) An Indian sailor who was kidnapped in Africa last month has been released and will reach India on Sunday night, the external affairs ministry said.
"Rohan Ruparelia, who was abducted during the hijacking of the ship Maximus, is flying back to India tonight," ministry spokesman Vikas Swarup said on Sunday evening.
"He is safe and has spoken to his family members. With this, all the 11 Indian crew members are safe and secure and are returning home in batches," Swarup said.
Merchant vessel Maximus, owned by Dubai-based Warm Seas company, with a crew of 18 was hijacked by pirates off the coast of Abidjan in Ivory Coast on February 11.
The crew had 11 Indian seamen, including the ship's captain.
The vessel was under charter to a South Korean company and was in its bunkering position when the incident occurred.
The Indian mission in Ivory Coast alerted the country's authorities on February 12 besides alerting the Indian missions in Ghana and Nigeria as the vessel was suspected to be sailing in that direction.
On India's request, Ghana's naval ships operating in the region were tasked to track the ship.
The pirates changed the name of the vessel to MT Elwins and it was followed by the mother ship of the pirates.
The vessel, instead of entering the waters of Benin, steered southwards and entered international waters towards Nigeria on February 14.
India took up up the issue with the Nigerian authorities, after which the Nigerian navy immediately launched operations to locate the vessel.
Five Nigerian ships were deployed for the operation and the hijacked vessel was finally intercepted by the Nigerian navy on the evening of February 19.
During the operation, one pirate was killed and six were apprehended.
No crew member sustained injury during the operation. Sixteen crew members, including 10 Indians, were rescued by the Nigerian navy.
However, two crew members -- Ruparelia and a Pakistani -- were taken hostage by the pirates when they disengaged.
"Welcome home Rohan," External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj tweeted on Sunday evening.
She was responding to a tweet by Ruparelia's sister Zankhana, who said: "Thank u for all the support Mam. My bro Rohan is finally rescued from the Pirates. Jai Hind."

COTONOU, BENIN - Benin's prime minister has phoned businessman Patrice Talon to concede defeat and ...
Cotonou - Businessman Patrice Talon won the second round of Benin's presidential election on Sunday, ...
Niamey - Niger's president is running for a second five-year term on Sunday against an ...
Cotonou - Benin is holding a presidential run-off vote that pits the prime minister against ...
Lagos, March 21 (IANS) At least 27 Boko Haram terrorists were confirmed dead in separate ...
Get the latest Nigeria Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Nigeria Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved