2014-07~09
http://www.newdelhitimes.com/terrorism-in-china-who-supports123/

Terrorism In China: Who Supports? | New Delhi Times – India's leading opinion based newspaper
One of the aftermaths of the 9/11 war on terror is the surfacing of terrorist activities in China, particularly in the country’s bordering area of Xinjiang province which hosts a number of Muslim population. China’s Xinjiang province is the country’s most westerly region, bordering on the former Soviet states of Central Asia, as well as several other states including Pakistan, Afghanistan, Russia, and Mongolia and there has been a separatist movement surfacing in the region among the Muslims, the Turkish speaking Uighurs, who are the largest ethnic groups in the Xinxiang province. There have been movements for independence since the1990s through separatist groups like the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM). However, in recent years, the separatist movement has acquired the overtones of a terror network and has forged links with banned outfits such as Al Qaeda, Taliban, and the Pakistani sponsored insurgency groups operating in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir. ETIM is part of the al Qaida network and has been sheltered in the Taliban era Afghanistan and Pakistan and with Afghanistan becoming the sanctuary of all hues of terrorist groups prior to 2001; ETIM relocated itself to Kabul and utilized the Taliban-al Qaida facilities to train. After the US bombing of Taliban-al Qaida strongholds in Afghanistan, ETIM, like other terrorist groups, moved to the new sanctuary in Pakistan’s tribal areas
Terror attacks have been on the rise since the beginning of the current decade. In July 2011, two simultaneous attacks took place in the city of Kashgar in China’s Uighur Muslim-dominated Xinjiang province. It was the first time China blamed Pakistan for giving sanctuary to terrorists. According to the official Chinese news agency Xinhua news network, investigations into the attack in Kashgar, Xinjiang, pointed to Uighur separatists who “had learned skills of making explosives and firearms in overseas camps of the terrorist group East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM) in Pakistan”.  The attacks were followed by an angry China summoning the then ISI chief Shuja Pasha to Beijing to explain the activities of the Uighur extremists on Pakistani soil.
Terrorist attacks in Xinxiang continued in spite of China following an aggressive policy towards its own “war of terror”. In February 2012, knife wielding ethnic Uighurs killed around a dozen people at a market in Yechenge near Kashgar. The Chinese government blamed the violence on the troika of evil forces of extremism, separatism, and terrorism and the Governor of Xinjiang said that the people behind recent unrest in the far-western Muslim-majority region had “a thousand and one links” to terrorists in neighbouring Pakistan. It was alleged that the cadres of the ETIM were trained in terror camps in Pakistan and the Chinese officials had asked Pakistan to hand over six members of the ETIM. Identified as “core members” of the outfit, they were named as Nurmemet Memetmin, Abdulkyum Kurban, Paruh Tursun, Tursunjan Ebibla, Nurmemet Raxit and Mamat Imin Nurmamat.
In March 2014, another deadly attack took place at the Kunming railway station where a group of knife-wielding assailants killed 29 and injured over 140. This was the first time a terror attack in China had occurred outside of the Xinxiang province and as such has led to a rethinking of China’s counter- terrorism policy. There are strong possibilities that aid to Uighurs is flowing from Pakistan’s northwest and China has pulled up Pakistan for such connections.
In the light of the terror attacks in China and the linkages of terror network groups with Pakistani terrorists, China needs to do a rethink on its policy towards Pakistan. China has long used Pakistan as a counterweight to India in South Asia and as such has embarked upon setting up large scale projects and investment in Pakistan. The Chinese footprints in the region as well as Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) are ever -increasing . The Chinese projects in Gilgit-Baltistan region constitute more than half the Chinese projects, making it a cause for major concern because of the disputed status of the areas. The list of projects ranges from providing mobile connectivity services to building power projects, highways, and rail links. In February this year, China and Pakistan signed agreements for building an airport at the strategic Gwadar port and extend Karakoram highway as part of the construction of the Economic Corridor project through Pakistan Occupied Kashmir.  China had also been vocal in the past in international forums in defending Pakistan over allegations of terrorism and opposed the blacklisting of Jamaat-ul-Dawa as a terror outfit. In the past, China also sought the support of Pakistan’s ISI to ensure the safety of its territories from the outfits operating in Waziristan and also signed a MoU with the right wing extremist Jamaat-e-Islami party of Pakistan.
Though recent terror attacks reveal the ineffectiveness of this Chinese appeasement approach towards terror networks in Pakistan, it looks as if Chinese government stills gives priority to its strategic interests over effectively circling Pakistan on issue of terrorism. On 17 June 2014, Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Hua Chunying stated that “China always stands by the Pakistani government in implementing and moving forward its counter-terrorism and security strategies based on its national conditions. We will continue to support the Pakistani government in their endeavor to safeguard national security and stability and to combat terrorism”. On the subject of ETIM, Hua acknowledged the reports that members of the group had been killed in the Pakistani strikes and mentioned that China and Pakistan will continue to cooperate on such efforts. On September 1, 2014, Chinese Assistant Foreign Minister Liu Jiancha mentioned that “No strings are attached to our support for the brotherly country. It has no ceilings. We continue to work with each other with sincerity and on the basis of win-win cooperation”. Thus, it looks as if China is still pursuing the policy of appeasement over taking a tough stance with Pakistan over the issue of terrorism. Despite intimidating Pakistan in the past over the issue of terror networks operating in the country, China refuses to openly acknowledge the role of Pakistan and ISI in nurturing terror groups. Pakistan on the other hand would be quite content with the current Chinese policy measures of courting it as it is threatened by the possibility of strong relations between China and India, particularly after the swearing in of Modi government. China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi during his  official visit to New Delhi in June 2014 stated that “Going forward, China stands ready to deepen counter-terrorism cooperation with India to better safeguard the common security interests of the two countries”.
China and India have agreed to resume anti-terror military exercises and the groundwork for deeper cooperation in counter-terrorism measures between India and China seem to exist, more so in the context of the withdrawal of the NATO security forces in Afghanistan. Terrorism is an issue that is still capable of bringing India and China together to team up to fight Pakistani sponsored terrorism and China must realize that rather than Pakistan which is the nursery of terror network, India will be an effective strategic partner in rooting out terrorism completely from South Asia.