2014-07~09
http://www.russiaherald.com/index.php/sid/226183529/scat/723971d98160d438

China's 'People's war' on Terrorism Proves Effective in Xinjiang - Russia Herald
MOSCOW, September 29 (RIA Novosti), Ekaterina Blinova - The active involvement of Chinese civilians against the domestic terrorist threat of Xinjiang Uyghur, in what the Chinese government calls a "people's war," has proved effective, according to Xinhua. "Since China's far western Xinjiang region launched a "People's war" against terrorism last spring, people from all ethnic groups have joined forces with the government and police in the fight. With the increasing frequency of deadly terrorist attacks in Xinjiang, the regional government launched a year-long campaign, and Xinjiang Party chie...
Helsinki - The witches are out, but don't despair. Instead of casting evils spells, they wish you well, although you'd better have some chocolate or candy handy just in case.
Every year before Easter, small colourful witches appear on Finnish doorsteps in a blend of eastern and western religious traditions related to spring. They hand over catkin branches, reciting healthy wishes in exchange for payment that is traditionally chocolate or other candies.
"A twig for you, a treat for me!" 8-year-old sorcerer Isara chants, waving her magic catkin wand decorated with coloured paper strips and feathers. In exchange, the red-and-black spotted-faced witch eagerly receives a handful of chocolate eggs, which she stuffs into a copper coffee pot.
"The most important thing are the sweets," her 8-year-old friend Linda said on Sunday, swishing her catkin branch.
On the northeastern periphery of Europe, the Finnish version of trick-or-treat reflects the Nordic country's straddling of East and West, combining the Russian Orthodox tradition of blessing cattle and farms with branches of pussy willow and the Swedish custom of dressing up as witches before Easter.
On Palm Sunday, little girls don long, flowing skirts and wrap bright scarves around faces freckled with soot and red spots.
Ethnologists say Finland's Easter practices came from the eastern region of Karelia, where Russian traditions were strong even when it was a part of Finland. Farmers in Karelia for centuries have taken pussy willows in lieu of palm leaves to their neighbours on Palm Sunday as a gesture of blessing.
The tradition of children dressing up as witches came to Finland from Sweden, where since the early 19th century they went door-to-door with drawings that were exchanged for treats.
Finland, which shares a 1 300km border with its huge eastern neighbour Russia, was a semi-autonomous grandy ducy in the Czarist Empire for a century before gaining independence in 1917. Before that, Finland was part of the Swedish kingdom for seven centuries.
But it wasn't until the 1970s that the two traditions blended, with witches reciting a rhyme wishing good health for all in the household, reminding them of their duty to repay them with Easter eggs or other treats.
Today's witches, instead of traditional scarves, often wear pointed witch hats in the Anglo-Saxon tradition. Some even don masks, aping Halloween costumes.
MOSCOW, Russia - Search operations that lasted for hours at the Rostov-on-Don airport ended with ...
A court in Russia's southern region of Rostov appears to have found the Ukrainian pilot ...
As the European Union and Turkey were negotiating an agreement last week to ease the ...
A Russian court is due on March 21 to begin delivering the verdict in the ...
Investigators in southern Russia say a flight recorder recovered from the FlyDubai passenger jet that ...
Get the latest Russia Herald headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Russia Herald - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved