2014-07~09
http://www.economist.com/news/asia/21618866-china-trying-build-new-world-order-starting-asia-pax-sinica&c=_WFmzi27Oaioilt9el46FLmatk9CkBG1otTwH3lg6HA&mkt=en-us

Pax Sinica | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
THE clue is in the name. The Shanghai Co-operation Organisation (SCO) groups six countries—China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan—and aims to be the dominant security institution in its region; but its origin and purposes are largely Chinese. So it looks rather worrying from a Western point of view that the group has agreed to expand and that India, Pakistan and Iran are all keen to join: the rise of a kind of China-led NATO to which even America’s friends, such as India and Pakistan, seem drawn. Yet that is to misunderstand the sort of organisation the SCO aspires to be. It does indeed pose a challenge to the American-led world order, but a much more subtle one.
On September 11th and 12th the SCO held its 14th annual summit in Dushanbe, Tajikistan’s capital. It agreed to adopt procedures for expansion, first for those countries that are already observers. India and Pakistan are likely to join in the next year. Iran is at present disqualified because it is under UN sanctions. Another observer, Mongolia, is a democracy and has long had qualms about joining what looks like a club for authoritarians. Afghanistan, the final observer, has other priorities.
The SCO summit came hot on the heels of one held by NATO, in Wales. This gave columnists in China and Russia the chance to tut-tut about the “20th-century” or “cold war” or “confrontational” mentality that animates NATO, and to boast about what makes the SCO different from what Russia’s foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, has called such “relics of a past era”, with the rigid discipline imposed by particular blocs of countries.
In August the SCO held its largest joint military exercises yet, an anti-terrorist drill in Inner Mongolia in China involving more than 7,000 personnel. The SCO’s boosters, however, insist it is not an alliance, like NATO, but a “partnership”, with no adversary in mind. That is not entirely true. It has always been explicitly directed against three enemies, even if they are only abstract nouns: the “three evil forces” of terrorism, separatism and extremism. China, in Xinjiang; Russia, in Chechnya; the Central Asian members, in the Ferghana Valley and on their borders with Afghanistan. All SCO members face a threat from Islamist extremism.
Hence the plea in Dushanbe from Xi Jinping, China’s president, that the SCO should “focus on combating religion-involved extremism and internet terrorism”. China’s problems with violent extremism from ethnic-Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang have worsened recently. Uighur militants have committed terrorist attacks in Xinjiang and other parts of China. They have also been fighting for jihadist groups elsewhere—in the tribal areas of Pakistan, for example. And reports suggest some have joined Islamic State (IS) in Iraq and Syria. This month four Uighurs with alleged IS links were detained on the Indonesian island of Sulawesi.
These men had left China by way of South-East Asia. One of China’s successes in Central Asia in recent years has been to secure the co-operation of local authorities in deporting illegal migrants—meaning mainly Uighurs with a grudge—so more are finding their way out through Laos and Thailand. That success, however, is probably more the result of China’s growing presence and commercial clout in the region, and the rendition agreements they have bought, rather than a tribute to the influence of the SCO itself. The same goes for the economic goals China has set the SCO. The countries it covers are on the “New Silk Road” Mr Xi advertises. But it is bilateral deals that will build the dream, not communiqués from an SCO summit.
Viewed like this, not as a regional security bloc but as a rather ineffectual effort at combating cross-border terrorism and boosting other links, the SCO seem less threatening. Its appeal to India and Pakistan also seems more obvious, especially as NATO’s withdrawal from Afghanistan opens up new uncertainties in the region. Membership incurs few costs and may have some benefits. India, for instance, is courted both by China—Mr Xi paid a much-trumpeted visit this week—and America. SCO membership would be a useful way for India to flaunt its independent foreign policy and its refusal to be drawn into an anti-China bloc.
For China, however, and even more so Russia, the accession of India and Pakistan would be a mixed blessing. The SCO would look less like a self-absorbed club focused on Central Asia, and it would gain real global heft. However, as other regional groupings have found, expansion would inevitably be at the expense of the SCO’s cohesion. India, even under the leadership of a strongman like Narendra Modi, would not sit comfortably in an authoritarian club. The SCO would be able to do even less than it has so far.
In fact, even Russia and China seem unsure about how important they want the SCO to be. Four SCO members also belong to the Russian-led Collective Security Treaty Organisation. Russia is also hoping its Eurasian Union with Belarus and Kazakhstan can expand. And China has started lavishing attention on another organisation, the leadenly named Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, or CICA.
But to note the potential conflicts among the different multilateral organisations China is promoting may be to miss the point. America’s leading role in Asia is based on a number of bilateral security treaties and a plethora of inclusive multilateral institutions, all open to Chinese membership. China itself is building all sorts of institutions: the SCO, CICA, the “BRICS” (grouping China with Brazil, Russia, India and South Africa), a Trilateral Commission (at present languishing) with South Korea and Japan and a Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership. Their shared characteristics are that China has a big and sometimes dominant role and that the United States is not a member—and indeed was rebuffed when it sought to join the SCO as an observer. China is not just challenging the existing world order. Slowly, messily and, apparently with no clear end in view, it is building a new one.
The most powerful and popular leader China has had for decades must use these assets wisely
America’s health-care system remains dysfunctional, but it could be made better
The world is still acting too slowly to stop Ebola
Taxes are best raised on a broad base, but in many countries it is worryingly narrow
The quickest way to cut greenhouse gases is to expand the Montreal protocol
Our guide to the actions that have done the most to slow global warming
Policies to slow down warming may be more attractive if framed as ways of speeding up growth
A 2015 UN climate agreement is possible, but it will not be bold
Hints of how to provide better health care for less money
Despite disagreement about what to call it, America is preparing to go to war with jihadists in Iraq...
If she runs, she may win. But if she wins, could she govern?
As the opposition takes a break from politics, the government tightens its grip
Ordinary folk are sick and tired of their public hospitals 
A cult of personality is growing around China’s president. What will he do with his political...
The many tensions among those preparing to take on jihadists in Iraq and Syria
The general has a good first 100 days—at the cost of political freedom
Fear of the virus boosts e-commerce in Africa’s most-populous nation
For all the celebrations in Kiev over ratifying the trade deal with Europe, it is the Russians who...
The arrest of Vladimir Yevtushenkov recalls that of Mikhail Khodorkovsky
The Social Democrats win, but will find it hard to form a stable government
The continued rise of Alternative for Germany in state elections
The tricky balance of responsibility towards Jews and other minorities
Recent manoeuvres kick off the fight for the presidency in 2017
The Italian prime minister struggles to reform and revive the economy
Why Britain’s economic recovery has not yet filled its coffers
David Cameron tries to persuade war-weary Britons to fight IS
A row over another high-street casualty, this time in the mobile-phone business
How one of London’s greatest achievements may soon be replicated
A boom in new businesses may not help the economy much
The populist UK Independence Party could be about to surge behind a charismatic MP
Physical location is becoming even more important in the digital world. That has governments...
The divide between having ideas and reporting on them is dissolving
Death, chaos, destruction. They’re not as bad for companies as you might think
Europe could survive a cut-off of Russian gas, but only a short one
SABMiller may be swallowed up by its main rival, AB InBev
The Chinese firm prepares to take on HP, Cisco and other IT giants
Pilots stop work as the French flag-carrier struggles to reinvent itself
The distance between the back and front of the plane will keep widening
Instead of romanticising entrepreneurs people should understand how hard their lives can be
More of the world’s big stockmarkets are allowing firms like Alibaba to sideline their...
Hiring hedge funds was never going to make pension deficits disappear
After a sharp slowdown, stimulus is back on the agenda
A rare survivor among Spanish savings banks tries to boost profits
Big economies take aim at the firms running circles around their taxmen
Sugar substitutes may mess with gut bacteria—causing obesity in the process
Humanity’s bacterial companions are a good place to look for new drugs
A big nuclear-fusion project attempts to move from design to construction
A new biography paints Napoleon as a tactical military genius. But he made some serious strategic...
Why yet another biography of Beethoven is worth adding to your shelves
Ian Paisley, preacher and politician, died on September 12th, aged 88
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more