2014-07~09
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/5223/20140729/xinjiang-violence.htm

13 Han Chinese Die in Xinjiang Violence : World : Chinatopix
An open market in Urumqi, Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous region, where the deadliest attack in the region in 11 years killed 31 people in May. Picture taken May 25, 2014. (Photo : Reuters)
Violence erupted anew in China's troubled western region of Xinjiang, leaving at least 13 people dead, according to media reports.
Citing information from a regional official, BBC News said the violence occurred in Yarkant, a town close to the border with Tajikistan.
There was no information on what triggered the violence, but all those killed were believed to be Han Chinese.
Authorities in Xinjiang have blamed a recent spate of attacks in the region on Uighur separatists.
In May, more than 30 people died in violence in the capital Urumqi.
In the incident two vehicles rammed through a market and attackers hurled explosives.
In March, a group of eight people armed with knives attacked passengers at the Kunming railway station, killing 29 and injuring 140.
The government accused the Islamic extremist group Eastern Turkestan Islamic Movement of organizing the attacks.
In a bid to contain the violence, Chinese authorities have stepped up security in Xinjiang and launched a year-long "anti-terror operation."
More police officers and soldiers have been stationed in major cities and towns in the region.
According to the BBC, few details were available on the latest violence as authorities feared reporting them could heighten tensions between Uighurs and Han Chinese.
Xinjiang's capital was the scene of mass rioting between Uighurs and Han Chinese in 2009.
Around 200 people, mostly Han Chinese, died in the violence.
Uighurs accuse Chinese authorities of harassment, discrimination and other human rights abuses.
Activists say Uighurs cannot freely practice their Muslim faith because of government restrictions on religious freedom.
This month Muslims working in some government offices were not allowed to fast during Ramadan.
China says it has been working to improve Xinjiang's economy.
But while the government has helped improve living standards in major cities, Uighurs complain development in the region has benefited only Han Chinese who came to Xinjiang from eastern provinces.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent MacBook Pro 2016 rumors revealed more potential features of the upcoming Apple laptop. read more