2014-07~09
http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/08/21/us-china-attacks-idUSKBN0GL1KO20140821?feedType=RSS&feedName=worldNews

Seven slashed in knife attack in China's Guangzhou: state media | Reuters
BEIJING A man slashed seven people on Thursday in the southern city of Guangzhou, state media said, in the latest of a series of attacks that has unnerved the country.
The assailant, whose motive is unknown, was also injured, state news agency Xinhua said, quoting sources at the Guangzhou Armed Police Hospital, where the injured were receiving treatment.
Police are investigating the case, Xinhua said, without giving further details.
The attack comes three months after an assailant stabbed six people in a Guangzhou railway station.
A car burst into flames on the edge of Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October in an apparently deliberate attack, and 29 people were stabbed to death in March in the southwestern city of Kunming.
The government blamed militants from the region of Xinjiang for both those attacks. Xinjiang, a resource-rich region on the borders of central Asia, has for years been beset by violence blamed by Beijing on Islamists.
In late July, three suspected Islamist militants armed with knives and axes killed the imam of China's biggest mosque in Xinjiang, days after a knife-wielding gang attacked state buildings in the same region.
A look at women who serve in America's military.  Slideshow 
Using citation analysis to identify authors whose papers wield outsized influence
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.