2014-07~09
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2014/07/02/China-limits-Ramadan-fasting/9351404315471/

China bans Xinjiang officials from fasting during Ramadan - UPI.com
BEIJING , July 2 (UPI) -- China has restricted the practice of fasting during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan in its western Xinjiang region, part of tightened security after attacks by suspected Uighur separatists.
Uighurs are a Muslim ethnic sect fearful of losing cultural and religious freedoms. Chinese authorities have accused, arrested, and convicted extremist Uighurs of a series of recent suicide bombings and other violent attacks in western China and in Beijing.
Several government agencies have banned their Muslim staff members from the fast accompanying Ramadan, a worldwide observance which began Saturday. An agency website noted its civil servants cannot "take part in fasting and other religious activities."
The website of Bozhou Radio and TV University in Shenzhen said party members, teachers and young people, a reference to students, were subject to the ban.
The government has blamed extremist Uighurs for expanding violence in China, and the ban will likely further harden the positions of both the government, which blames Uighurs for expanding violence, and the Uighur population, which feels its freedoms and culture are eroding.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.