2014-07~09
http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2014/09/17/asia-pacific/crime-legal-asia-pacific/in-chinas-violence-wracked-xinjiang-a-moderate-uighur-professor-faces-trial/

In China's violence-wracked Xinjiang, a moderate Uighur professor faces trial | The Japan Times
URUMQI, CHINA – Chinese authorities imposed tight security in Urumqi, the capital of the Xinjiang region, on Wednesday for the separatism trial of a prominent scholar from the mostly-Muslim Uighur minority, as critics warned the prosecution will worsen tensions in violence-wracked far west.
Lawyers for Ilham Tohti, a former economics professor at a university in Beijing, arrived at the courthouse, where they have said he will deny the charges — which carry a life sentence.
Xinjiang, the Uighur homeland, has seen escalating violence between locals and security forces in the past year, with hundreds dead, and Beijing has launched a crackdown on “separatists” and “terrorists.”
But the United States, European Union, and several human rights groups have called for the release of Tohti, an outspoken critic of China’s policies toward Uighurs in the region.
“Ilham Tohti worked peacefully within Chinese laws, and we believe he should be released,” Raphael Droszewski, first secretary for political affairs at the EU mission in China, told reporters in Urumqi as the trial was set to begin.
He was among nine diplomats from countries including Germany, Britain and Canada who had traveled to Urumqi to observe the proceedings but were barred from entering the court.
Several dozen police officers, some in plainclothes and others clad in riot gear, were standing guard outside the building and had blocked off the surrounding streets.
Tohti was detained in January after he condemned the government’s response to a suicide car attack in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square that the government blamed on Xinjiang-based militants.
His prosecution — almost certain to result in a guilty verdict — risks silencing moderate Uighur voices and cutting off the possibility of dialogue, critics say.
Prosecutors will argue that Tohti’s writings on his website Uighur Online, and his lectures at the Minzu University in Beijing, show that he was a leading member of a “separatist criminal organization,” according to his attorney Li Fangping.
In interviews, Tohti has stated his opposition to independence or separatism.
“Tohti has consistently, courageously, and unambiguously advocated peacefully for greater understanding and dialogue between various communities, and with the state,” said Sophie Richardson, China director for U.S.-based campaign group Human Rights Watch.
“If this is Beijing’s definition of ‘separatist’ activities, it’s hard to see tensions in Xinjiang and between the communities decreasing.”
Alim Seytoff, president of the Uyghur American Association, said that by punishing Tohti, Beijing would “burn the bridge of peaceful reconciliation . . . and further increase the political tension” in the region.
“Ilham Tohti is exactly the kind of Uighur Chinese officials should look to in order to find peaceful and lasting solutions for the future,” he added.
Separatism charges can carry the death penalty in China, but the wording of the indictment means life imprisonment is the heaviest sentence Tohti can face, his lawyers said, adding that he has been denied food and kept in shackles during his detention.
“Ilham will not accept the charge,” said Liu Xiaoyuan, his second defense lawyer. “Looking at his articles and statements, we haven’t seen anything that would constitute separatism.
“A scholar expressing opinions on current events is not the same as separatism,” he added.
Tohti’s wife, Guzaili Nuer, who will attend the trial along with three of Tohti’s brothers, said that she is continually tailed by security agents.
“They follow me everywhere, they are outside my brother’s house as I speak,” she said.
“I’m worried about (Tohti’s) health, he has heart and stomach troubles, and he hasn’t been allowed to visit a hospital,” she added.
Nuer and three other family members will be allowed to attend the trial.
Chinese courts are tightly controlled by the ruling Communist Party and have a near-100 percent conviction rate in criminal cases.
Tohti devoted decades to researching government policy toward Uighurs, about 10 million of whom live in Xinjiang, a vast, resource-rich and strategically important region that abuts central Asia.
China blames ongoing unrest in the region on organized terrorists, while rights groups say cultural and religious repression of Uighurs has stoked violence.
As a professor and writer, Tohti was known for his moderate stance on Uighur issues but was repeatedly subject to house arrest and prevented from leaving the country.
In a 2011 essay, Tohti wrote: “I earnestly hope that my homeland can become as prosperous and developed as the rest of China. I worry about my homeland and my country falling into chaos and division.”