2014-07~09
http://www.saharasamay.com/world-news/676557919/terror-attack-in-xinjiang-uighurs-blames-chinese-security-forces.html

Terror attack in Xinjiang?,Uighurs blames Chinese security forces
Serbia's Novak Djokovic decisively beat Canada's Milos Raonic 6-2, 6-0 in just an hour and
Dozens of civilians were killed or injured in a major terror attack by knife-wielding extremists in China's restive Xinjiang province, home of the native Muslim Uygurs, on the eve of Eid festival.But Uighurs have complained about Chinese rule in the region and Chinese security forces are killing the protesters.
The Chinese government describes such violence as terror attacks, often blaming Muslim Uygurs, on religious fundamentalists seeking independence for the region, while exile groups  and The Uyghur American Association attribute many of the deaths to excessive force used to crush peaceful protests. Police killed protesters condemning “Chinese security forces’ heavy-handed Ramadan crackdown since the beginning of the Holy Month and extrajudicial use of lethal force in recent weeks.”
 Beijing accuses al-Qaeda backed East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), which had bases in Pakistan's tribal areas,
for the unrest in the region. Chinese security forces launched an-year-long crackdown against the militants after a spate of bomb attacks in Urumqi, provincial capital of Xinjiang which border Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (POK).
   A gang armed with knives attacked a police station and government offices yesterday in Elixku Township in Shache County, Kashgar Prefecture. Some of the attackers then moved on to the nearby Huangdi Township, attacking civilians and smashing vehicles as they passed.
Dozens of Uygur and Han civilians were killed or injured in the attack, state-run Xinhua news agency quoted local police as saying.
Police officers at the scene shot dead dozens of members of the mob. Thirty one cars were vandalised, including 6 which
were set on fire, it said.Initial investigation showed that it was a premeditated terror attack, the report said.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the exile World Uyghur Congress, said in an e-mail message to media that more than 20
Uighurs were shot dead by armed authorities while 10 were injured.
A total of 13 Chinese security personnel were killed and injured, he said quoting a local source. About 67 people have been arrested after the attack. The attack came on the eve of Eid festival which was celebrated by China's over 20 million Muslims in Xinjiang and other parts of the country.
Xinjiang, home to Uighur Muslims, is in turmoil over the increasing settlements of Han Chinese from other parts of the country. The violence has now spread to other parts of China.Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking Muslims with ethnic fraternity in Turkey, bordering Syria.
State media Xinhua on today's attack said it was aimed to?destabilise the region and spread fear and hatred, as did similar recent attacks.
It justified the police shooting saying that the move prevented more civilian casualties, from both Han and Uygur ethnic groups.
"The attack is against the spirit of Ramadan, which is about the practice of self-discipline and self-control," the commentary said.During Ramadan, devout Muslims refrain from any behaviour that could be perceived as sinful, such as swearing,let along slaughtering innocent people," the commentary said.
"The rioters were committing blasphemy against Islam, the religion of peace," it said. The latest attack is doomed to hurt the economy, it added.
super luxury car maker Rolls-Royce is gearing up to tap the country's Billionaires with ne
Coming-of-age drama 'Boyhood' won three of the biggest awards at the BAFTA 2015 but it was
Sunny Leone is seen scorching the screen in the first look of Leela with her bold acts.
Samsung unveiled the Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, S
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian reportedly wants Beyonce to buy a house in her gated commun
Automaker Renault India today said it will roll-out a multi-purpose vehicle 'Lodgy' and a
Pharma tycoon Dilip Shanghvi surpassed Mukesh Ambani as the world's richest Indian with a
When Holi is round the corner, can anyone forget all-time hit Bollywood songs?
In an interim order, the Bombay High Court has restrained the city police from arresting o
Good news for the fans’ of Salman Khan and Deepika Padukone.
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian has posed nude for the upcoming 10th season of 'Keeping Up
Bollywood superstar Akshay Kumar and Actress cum Entrepreneur Shilpa Shetty Kundra have pa
Kashmir witnessed season's heaviest snowfall as the arterial Jammu-Srinagar National Highw
Mexican actress Stephanie Sigman has joined Monica Bellucci and Lea Seydoux as the new bon
Luxury carmaker Mercedes-Benz launched the all-new compact B-Class in both petrol and dies
Bollywood actor Poonam Pandey, gets relief as a local court in Bengaluru quashed a case pe
Automaker Renault India launched the new generation Duster priced at Rs 8.30 lakh (Delhi e
Now Bollywood A-list actors are competing to get nude on-screen.
The 2015 edition of the International Indian Film Academy Awards is set to enthrall Bollyw


India defeated Zimbabwe by six wickets chasing 288 runs target in World Cup Match.
Short filmmaker Ullhas PR on Monday filed a police complaint against Bollywood superstar A
A rare three-feet-long flying snake was spotted in Coimbatore district’s Kalampalayam v
ASUS has created an online game for its ZenFone Zoom smartphone which allows participants