2014-07~09
http://news.yahoo.com/china-detains-man-xinjiang-rumors-deadly-attack-043953920.html

China detains man in Xinjiang for rumors about deadly attack - Yahoo News
China’s government is blaming members of the Uighur ethnic minority from the Xinjiang region for Saturday’s deadly attack on a Kunming train station. Alim Seytoff, spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress, tells how relations with Beijing are expected to deteriorate under President Xi Jinping.


Marriott CEO on Cuba openings: Great step for the industr...

Arne Sorenson, CEO & President of Marriott International, talks with CNBC&#39;s Michelle Caruso-Cabrera in Cuba about doing business in the country now that both Marriott and Starwood have gotten U.S. government approval to operate in Cuba.
President Barack Obama and his family toured iconic places in Old Havana on Sunday, including Havana&#39;s Cathedral, Plaza de Armas and Edificio Capitanes y Generales, Cuba&#39;s former seat of government in colonial times. (March 20)
President Barack Obama says his trip to Cuba is an &quot;historic opportunity to engage with the Cuban people.&quot; Obama spoke to a few dozen embassy staff and families at a Havana hotel in his first stop after arriving in Cuba. (March 20)
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump is taking US President Barack Obama to task for not turning the plane around when Cuban President Raul Castro did not meet at the airport in Havana on Sunday. (March 20)
Dramatic video has emerged of the anti-terror raid in Brussels on Friday that let to the capture and arrest of Paris terror attack suspect Salah Abdeslam. Photo: AP
Donald Trump goes to great lengths to say he&#39;s a &quot;strong leader&quot; when it comes to everything from his aggressive rallies to his threats to tax Chinese goods. Here&#39;s a look at how he translates his rhetoric about &quot;strength&quot; into reality on the campaign trail. Photo: Getty
U.S. President Barack Obama lays a wreath in Cuba during the first visit by a sitting U.S. president in nearly 90 years. Rough Cut (no reporter narration).
A Russian judge on Monday said Ukrainian pilot Nadezhda Savchenko was complicit in the killing of two Russian journalists. Nathan Frandino reports.
BEIJING (Reuters) - China has detained a man in its unruly western Xinjiang region for spreading what it said were Internet rumors about an attack in July in which nearly 100 people were killed, state media said on Monday.
Authorities have said 59 "terrorists" were gunned down by security forces in Xinjiang's Shache county and 37 civilians were killed in attacks by masked militants on July 28, one of the worst bouts of unrest in the region in years. [ID:nL4N0Q902F]
Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people, has been beset for years by violence that the government blames on Islamist militants or separatists who it says want an independent state called East Turkestan.
The official news website of the Xinjiang government said police detained a 22-year-old suspect for circumventing China's online censorship system, known as the Great Firewall, to post a fake account of the incident on overseas websites.
"So-called reports that were seriously inconsistent with the facts emerged on overseas websites, which fabricated horrifying details and deliberately incited ethnic hatred," the website, Tianshan.net, reported.
It said the rumor, which included graphic depictions of extreme violence by police, had been circulated by "hostile foreign forces" and had an "evil influence".
Tianshan said police detained the suspect, a man with a Uighur name who later confessed, on Aug. 6.
"I didn't care if what I was writing was real or not. I just wanted to attract people's attention and have an influence on public opinion," it quoted the man as saying.
According to China's official account of the unrest, militants attacked a police station and government offices in Elixku town before moving on to the nearby town of Huangdi, targeting civilians and smashing vehicles as they went.
However, authorities only gave a detailed account of the incident days later. It is unclear why the government waited to announce details about casualties, although bad news has sometimes been covered up or delayed in China in the past.
China tightly controls visits to the region by foreign journalists, making an independent assessment of the situation almost impossible.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies and discrimination in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest, a claim Beijing denies.