2014-07~09
http://www.canberratimes.com.au/federal-politics/political-news/chinese-governments-veiled-threats-over-abc-foreign-correspondent-program-on-uighurs-20140930-10nx6q.html

Chinese government's 'veiled threats' over ABC Foreign Correspondent program on Uighurs
The Chinese government has issued veiled threats to Australia's national broadcaster that diplomatic relations could be damaged if the ABC broadcasts a report from its Beijing-based correspondent Stephen McDonell, according to ABC sources.
The Chinese Government has allegedly threatened the national broadcaster over a news report on China's crackdown on the ethnic Uighurs population.
The report, which is due to air on the ABC's Foreign Correspondent program on Tuesday night, deals with the Chinese government's increasingly harsh crackdown on the Uighurs, a small Muslim community in the far-western province of Xinjiang.
The Uighurs, who are seeking an independent homeland, have been the subject of a brutal crackdown by Chinese authorities.
The Chinese government has been condemned internationally for the life sentence that was recently imposed on well-respected Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti.
A fortnight ago, while McDonell was returning to Beijing after filming in Xinjiang, the Chinese embassy in Canberra contacted the ABC's managing director, Mark Scott, to express their concerns about the program. They requested it not be aired.
Foreign Correspondent's executive producer, Steve Taylor, said that "such was their intelligence gathering that they [embassy officials] made overtures to the ABC while the assignment was still under way".
Following the letter to Mr Scott, two senior officials from the Chinese embassy in Canberra had an hour-long meeting with the ABC's director of communications, Michael Millett.
"They made their views clear that they didn't want the program shown ... suffice to say we will be showing the program," Mr Millett told Fairfax Media.
ABC sources claim that, during the meeting, the Chinese officials said that if the program was aired, the ramifications would be wider than just a stoush with the national broadcaster.
Mr Millet declined to go into any details about the meeting except to say that the Chinese officials "expressed their views forcefully but politely".
The executive producer said it was a testament to the tenacity of McDonell and cameraman Wayne McAllister to record the plight of the Uighurs in the face of determined efforts by Chinese authorities to "stymie, stifle and impede their reporting".
China is intensifying its crackdown on a resident Muslim community in the remote northwest of the country in what it claims is its own war on terror.
 "We were very concerned about the integrity and safety of the material while filming and while trying to get it back to Australia," Taylor said
In 2009, the Chinese government unsuccessfully demanded that the Melbourne International Film Festival withdraw a documentary about an exiled Uighur leader, Rebiya Kadeer.
Fairfax Media has contacted the Chinese embassy and sent written questions about the matter but has not yet received a response.
Get notified when the big things happen. Sign up to our newsletter.
Low variable loan rate + no monthly or upfront fees
For life of the card plus low rate on balance transfers