2015-08~09
http://news.thaivisa.com/thailand/despite-lack-of-evidence-thai-media-points-blame-at-uighurs/111965/

Despite lack of evidence, Thai media points blame at Uighurs
Despite Lack of Evidence, Thai Media Points Blame at Uighurs
By Khaosod English

A group of more than 90 Uighur refugees were forcibly repatriated from Thailand to China in July. Chinese security forces placed hoods over their heads for the flight to China, where they are branded terrorists. Photo: CCTV
BANGKOK — In the horrific wake of the devastating bomb attack, the need and rush to assign blame in the absence of reliable information has proven a toxic mix for a Thai media too willing to set aside due diligence and cast its own net of suspicion.
One vector of emergent blame has painted the attack as retribution for Thailand’s decision in July to deport more than 90 Uighur refugees back to China, a widely condemned move which prompted the sacking of Thailand’s diplomatic mission in Istanbul.
A report on Daily News, one of the largest-circulated newspapers in Thailand, quoted unnamed police officers saying that “Uighur groups” were behind yesterday’s blast at the popular Erawan Shrine in downtown Bangkok. The bomb killed at least 20 people and injured more than 180.
The Uighurs are a Muslim ethnic group in the far west of China that have at times violently resisted what they describe as oppression by ethnic Han Chinese. China brands them terrorists, and Thailand’s decision to deport them was panned as caving to pressure from Beijing.
However they have never exported their attacks, which usually involve lone agents in low-tech assaults of civilians, often with no more than a knife.
While top officials of the Thai government say it is too early to blame Monday night’s deadly bombing on any transnational terror network, Thai media have been less shy about making unsubstantiated leaps to cast suspicion on usual-suspect ethnic and minority groups.
According to Daily News, the Bangkok bombing was a Uighur plot, a claim it reported without circumspection.