2015-08~09
http://www.dawn.com/news/1204649

Chinese military will cut forces by 300,000: Xi Jinping - World - DAWN.COM
BEIJING: Chinese President Xi Jinping on Thursday announced China will cut its number of troops by 300,000, as he kicked off a massive military parade marking 70 years since the end of World War Two in Asia.
Jinping's pledge to cut China's 2.3 million-member People's Liberation Army (PLA) comes amid rising manpower costs and technological capabilities that reduce the need for large numbers of personnel.
Despite the cut, which will bring the headcount of the army down to about 2m, the PLA will remain the world's largest standing military.
Once known for its human wave tactics in conflicts such as the Korean War, the PLA is increasingly focused on high-tech weaponry and projecting power abroad through its navy and air force.
For instance, the latest version of the PLA's mainstay bomber, the H-6K, requires just a three-person crew ─ half its former complement.
Despite its huge numbers, the PLA hasn't fought in a major conflict since a brief 1979 border war with Vietnam, although China has long been a major contributor to United Nations peacekeeping missions and since 2008 has joined in multi-nation anti-piracy patrols in the Gulf of Aden.
Xi gave no specific reason for the reduction in troops, but bracketed his announcement with assertions of the PLA's mission to protect China and "uphold the sacred task of ensuring world peace."
China will always go down the path of peaceful development, the Chinese president had said, speaking on a rostrum overlooking Tienanmen Square.
The announcement could be seen as an attempt to soften the impact of Thursday's spectacle that saw 12,000 troops march through the centre of the Chinese capital, accompanied by tanks, bomber aircraft and intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Nearly one thousand foreign troops from seventeen countries are participating in the parade. Pakistan, Belarus, Cuba, Egypt, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mexico, Mongolia, Serbia, Tajikistan, and Russia each have dispatched a 75-member formation to march in the parade, reported Radio Pakistan.
The parade was largely shunned by Japan, the United States and other major democracies who have grown concerned about China's increasingly aggressive moves to assert its territorial claims in the South China Sea and elsewhere.
Jinping said that China's "total victory" over Japan in World War Two had re-established it as a "major country".
"The unyielding Chinese people fought gallantly and finally won total victory against the Japanese militarist aggressors, thus preserving China's 5,000-year-old civilisation and upholding the cause of peace," President Xi said, describing the conflict as "a decisive battle between justice and evil, between light and darkness".
As 12,000 troops and hundreds of tanks and missiles rolled through Tienanmen Square in front of invited guests and foreign leaders, Beijing residents were barred from watching.
Barricades were set up hundreds of metres from the parade, and squads of police and blue-shirted volunteers blocked access to the deserted streets.
Residents whose homes overlooked the route itself were ordered not to go onto their balconies or even open their windows.
Crowds of around a hundred citizens gathered at intersections to try to catch a glimpse of the hardware as it rolled by in the distance, but were disappointed.
Former Chinese president Jiang Zemin appeared at the parade after rumours of destabilising infighting in the ruling Communist Party.
Jiang stepped down as party chief in 2002 and state president in 2003 but remained head of the military for another year after stacking the Politburo, one of the party's elite ruling bodies, with his people. He remains influential to this day, though does not often appear in public.
Rumours periodically circulate in leadership and diplomatic circles about Jiang, especially about arguments between him and President Xi Jinping over policy, which, with China's political system being as opaque and secretive as it is, are impossible to verify.
State television showed Jiang, looking a little frail but appearing otherwise healthy, standing on the main leaders' rostrum overlooking Tienanmen Square, with his successor, Hu Jintao, standing next to him.
President Mamnoon Hussain, UN Secretary General Ban ki-Moon were also present at the event, along with 30 other heads of state.
President Mamnoon during a meeting with the Chinese president in the Great Hall of the People on Wednesday assured his counterpart that almost all members of the Uighur militant group the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) had been eliminated from Pakistan.
Mamnoon told the Chinese leader that Operation Zarb-i-Azb had been successful in eradicating terrorism from Pakistan.
Gotta admit. it's very impressive. though US remains technologically and militarily far ahead China has grown strong enough to make the costs of a potential conflict prohibitive. also the participation of female soldiers in the Chinese military reflects just how far they have come in gender equality. Unfortunately the subcontinent remains one of the worst places in the world to be a woman
@Flip flop It is not the Chinese economy that is falling. It is just that China's GDP growth rate has come down just a little bit.
There is a huge slow down in the Chinese economy. Won't be easy moving forward!
Barricades were set up hundreds of metres from the parade, and squads of police and blue-shirted volunteers blocked access to the deserted streets."
Whats the point of being one of the super power and not providing freedom to its people.
Demilitarization is direly needed all over the world because it will solve more than half of the problems presently faced by the world communities. Powerful have been found pushing the powerless to the wall.
Chinese economy is slowing. More importantly, China is growing old, the one child policy is coming home to roost. There are far more single children burdened with parents who are getting older. Most countries in Europe became rich and then became older. China is on the track to become older before it becomes rich. It is heading towards an economic stagnation similar to Japan which is stuck since the 80's.
Not falling Chinese economy, China getting more advanced in terms of technology, you dont need a lot of army if you get technically strong, China's time has come, it has started to emerge as a superpower..
"Jinping said that China's "total victory" over Japan in World War Two had re-established it as a "major country""
Last time I looked it was the Americans' who defeated Japan. Also - the Chinese military that assisted the American's were driven off the mainland by the Communist - those Chinese are now living in Taiwan.
@Krishna - It really satisfies your egos to put China down wherever possible. I don't know which one is better, China's one child policy or India's unbridled population explosion (and I am not defending our own)? Taking pride in third biggest economy or something like that is no use if economic growth is going to be quickly gobbled up by the rising population. This is why per capital GDP is far more relevant where South Asian countries are not in any enviable position.
@Harmony-1 I agree with you on one child policy... if nations of sub continent would have adopted one child policy in 1947. we would have been in a much better shape now...
Smart economic move. Even former military officers have very small pensions. Only generals matter.
Chinese Troop numbers have been cut three times already since the 1980s, from 4.5 million to 2.3 million at present to 2 million soon.
... A nuclear armed Pakistan can emulate this cost cutting exercise. Money saved can be used for health and education.
Pakistan is getting more advanced in terms of technology, you don't need a lot of army if you get technically strong
Great nation, Great country, great Friend of Friend's. Congratulation your 70 Birth Day.
New rising star on the Horizon.
According to Tibetan Prime Minister China's expenditure on internal security is more than the External Security($120 billion and $115 billion) . If that's true then china is in deep internal problem that is kept under carpet by total control on media and prohibition on external media.
Great. This is a bold and visionary decision reflecting confidence of PLA.
@zeeshan 
If you think there is a 'huge' slow down of economy , the country has 'huge' capacity to happily cushion its effects.
@stranger - Its not just the GDP rate. Their currency is in very bad shape. The Chinese government has put in over 500 billion dollars to stabilise the stock market. They even forcefully stopped trading but to no avail. Their economy is built around high growth but now that there is a slump the other parameters are impacted badly. Think of it as a Ferrari on bad potholed roads. Another factor is that the cost of labor is becoming prohibitive and manufacturing is taking a hit.
As far as saying that they are cutting forces because they want to get technology, I want you to name one Chinese who has invented anything in the past 200 years. Just one thing. What the Chinese are doing is re-aligning priorities. They will cut manpower from the army and invest in their navy. They want to guard trade routes.
@Saiyan females also participate in military parades in both India and China. That hardly is a sign on gender equality
@Harmony-1 
Countries with no control over their population are waiting for the worst. A hungary and politically more conscious population with no jobs or farmers committing suicides will no longer feel restrained. They would flow into the streets like sea waves and drown their leaders. In South Asia, thanks to the border hostilities and allegations of terrorism against each other, the ruling elite is keeping their people distracted from the real issues.

PIA’s fate to be decided at joint sitting of parliament


Pakistani scientist’s parents celebrate son’s feat in their dilapidated home


Disenfranchisement of women remains a hot issue in KP 


Pakistan fail to show up as Dhoni lauds India’s turnaround kings


From Cairo, It’s Saturday Night Live — without politics, sex or religion
