2015-08~09
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/64098/20150901/bangkok-bombing-main-suspect-arrested-cambodia.htm

Bangkok Bombing: Main Suspect Arrested in Cambodia : Politics : Chinatopix
Thai authorities have confirmed the arrest of a 'main suspect' in the Bangkok bombing. This arrest comes after another foreign suspect was taken into custody this past weekend. Arrest warrants have been issued for two other suspects.(Photo : REUTERS/Chaiwat Subprasom)
A key suspect in the Aug. 17 bomb attack on Bangkok's Erawan Shrine has been arrested in neighboring Cambodia and is being transferred to the Thai capital for further interrogation.
Thailand's Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha confirmed the arrest of the foreign suspect on Tuesday. He did not give any details on the suspect's name or nationality.
Nonetheless, Thai media have revealed that the suspect, who has been identified as Yusufu Mieraili, is from China's Xinjiang province. If this is true, it would give credence to concerns that the Bangkok bombing was a retaliatory attack for Thailand's deportation of over 100 Uighurs to China in July.
The 25-year-old is believed to be the person in yellow T-shirt seen on surveillance footage hiding a bag at the shrine shortly before the deadly explosion. About 20 people lost their lives and up to 100 sustained injuries from the blast. Thai police investigators say up to three kilograms of TNT was used in the attack, which targeted the country's vibrant tourism sector.
Yusufu is the second foreigner to be arrested in connection with the Bangkok bombing. On Saturday, Thai authorities arrested a foreign suspect after materials used to make explosives were found in his apartment.
There have been speculations that the suspect is a Turkish national. However, Thai police spokesman Lt. Gen. Prawut Thavornsiri has revealed that two Turkish passports found in the possession of the suspect is fake. Thai authorities have not given any information on the nationality or the name of the suspect, who remains in custody. He has reportedly denied any involvement in the Bangkok bombing.
Meanwhile, an arrest warrant has been released for an unidentified foreign suspect as well as a Thai woman after materials used to make explosives were found in another apartment linked to them. Thai police released a sketch of the foreign suspect and a picture of the Thai female suspect.
Police say the female suspect, who has been identified as Wanna Suansuant, has reached out to them. She is reported to be in Turkey currently with her husband and child. She has denied involvement in the Bangkok bombing. Nonetheless, authorities may bring her back to the country for questioning.
On Monday, Thai police chief Somyot Poompuanmuang announced that about three million baht ($83.981 or 534,392 yuan) would be given to the police force for their work in uncovering the people behind the attack. He also announced that about 22 police officers have been transferred from the country's province bordering Cambodia for neglecting their duties.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent MacBook Pro 2016 rumors revealed more potential features of the upcoming Apple laptop. read more