2015-08~09
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/china-business/11881739/George-Osborne-calls-for-Britain-and-China-to-stick-together.html

George Osborne calls for Britain and China to 'stick together' - Telegraph
Chancellor George Osborne brushed aside fears over the Chinese economy as he called on Britain and China to “stick together” in a speech at the Shanghai Stock Exchange aimed at calming concerns over the Asian giant.
Worries have grown over the world’s second biggest economy, stemming from wild swings on the Shanghai bourse, which was described by Mr Osborne as the "epicentre of the volatility in financial markets".
But the Chancellor said he “deliberately” visited the stock exchange in China’s commercial hub to present his bold outline for partnership.
"Whatever the headlines, regardless of the challenges, we shouldn't be running away from China," he said.
George Osborne is on a trade mission in China  Photo: Stefan Rousseau/PA
"Through the ups and downs, let's stick together. Let’s stick together to grow our economies. Let’s stick together to make Britain China’s best partner in the West.
“Let’s stick together and create a golden decade for both of our countries.”
The Chancellor’s attempt to calm the nerves of investors comes as China is expected to struggle to meet its 7pc growth target for 2015.
The International Monetary Fund expects China to grow by 6.8pc this year, but could cut its forecasts further.
The Shanghai stock exchange's benchmark index has plummeted nearly 40pc since June, following a 150pc surge in the previous 12 months.
The Chancellor has announced a string of agreements which will bring the British and Chinese economies closer together, including exploring the possibility of linking the London and Shanghai stock markets.
Mr Osborne also said China’s central bank will start to issue short-term debt in London, the first time it has done so outside of China.
He said he intends to build London into China’s “bridge” to Western markets.
The Chancellor will visit the remote western province of Xinjiang on Wednesday and then the south-western city of Chengdu following the Shanghai leg of his trip. He returns to the UK on Friday.

In pics: Some fledgling firms have reached valuations in the tens of billions. 
 These are the 20 priciest of them all


There are over 87,000 different drink combinations at Starbucks, according to 
 the coffee retailer’s website. How many of them do you know? From flu 
 remedies to Harry Potter-inspired beverages, we highlight the weird and the 
 wonderful brews and infusions. 


From 'scary cult movies from the 1980s' to 'coming-of-age animal tales', 
 Netflix has every niche covered. 


Forbes's annual index assess countries by a range of factors from taxes and 
 technology to red tape and innovation. These are the top 20 countries for 
 doing business


From a rare pair of Gucci shoes, to spending £110,000 releasing an album, 
 Britain's wealthiest are pulling out all the stops 


Briefing: Predictions saw a huge shift this week. We explain why - and 
 what it means for mortgages and savings 


New data: Discover the priciest cities around the globe for luxury property. 


Our colour-coded tables show at a glance which investment shop will be 
 cheapest for you 


The Big Short, the film adaptation of Michael Lewis' book of the same name 
 about the causes of the financial crisis, opens in UK cinemas this weekend. 
 How will the story stack up against the greatest films about business? 
