2015-08~09
http://www.thenews.com.pk/Todays-News-6-332694-RIS-students-take-part-in-childrens-art-festival

RIS students take part in children’s art festival | Islamabad | thenews.com.pk
Islamabad As many as 14 students of the Roots International School (RIS) participated in the 6th China Xinjiang International Children's Art Festival held in Urumqi, Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, says a press release. The mega event included five sessions. Over 100 children from 15 countries participated. The event was held with the support of CPC Xinjiang Committee, Xinjiang Government, Xinjiang Foreign Affairs Office and Xinjiang People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries. The aim of the art festival was to provide the young students with opportunities to show their talent, increase communication and enhance friendship. Students of RIS participated in the event along with other children of 15 countries. The festival was the great amalgamation of language, culture, music and art. The six-day mega event started from Xinjiang Academy of Governance where all briefings and notices were given followed by a rehearsal for the opening ceremony. On the second day, there was a red carpet ceremony for all troupes followed by a welcome address by troupe leader. The third day of the event was interesting and informative as students visited the exhibition centre, where traditional art forms of painting and calligraphy were exhibited. The student also visited the food festival and went on a shopping trip. On the fourth day, the students departed for Karamay city and visited Public Arts Theatre. Students gave performance at the theatre and the student leaders delivered speeches before the performance. On the fifth day, there was a visit to Black Oil Mountains and Nine Dragon Pond followed by an enlightening and fascinating visit of Karamy Science and Technology Museum. In the evening, the students left for Urumqi City. On the sixth day, there was a grand closing ceremony and the joint enactment of the troupes. Finally, the next morning the troupes left for their homelands.