2015-08~09
http://asia.nikkei.com/Viewpoints/Geopolitico/Truth-behind-Bangkok-bombing-may-never-be-known

Anthony Davis: Truth behind Bangkok bombing may never be known- Nikkei Asian Review
Weeks after the Erawan Shrine bomb attack in Bangkok that killed 20 people and wounded over 120, the parameters of responsibility for Thailand's worst terrorist atrocity are becoming clearer.
     But a paradox hangs over the investigation: Even as Thai police gather more evidence on the transnational network that planned and executed the Aug. 17 attack, whose victims were mostly tourists, the chances of the findings being made public and the main perpetrators being brought to justice are receding by the day.
     Despite offers of assistance from several foreign security services, Thai investigators have maintained a tight grip on the case for reasons that go beyond bruised national pride. Thailand's military government will clearly need to control the narrative that emerges from the tragedy. Shaped by the compulsions of Thai domestic politics and serious diplomatic sensitivities, that narrative will almost certainly trump any definitive conclusions over who was responsible.
     Three arrests have been made. The first, on Aug. 29, was of Adem Karadag, a man of Turkic appearance but indeterminate nationality. He was detained in an apartment in Bangkok with a large cache of bomb-making materials and over 200 fake Turkish passports.
     The second was a 25-year-old Uighur, Yusuf Mir Ali. According to the Chinese passport he was carrying, he was born in Xinjiang, in northwest China, home to the Uighur ethnic group. He was arrested by Cambodian authorities in Phnom Penh on Aug. 29 and handed over to the Thai military Sept. 1.
     Last, a Thai-Muslim man, Kamarudeng Sahoh, was arrested Sept. 4 in the southern border province of Narathiwat, where he was understood to have been involved in trafficking illegal migrants -- both of Uighur and Rohingya ethnicity -- from Thailand into Malaysia.
     Thai courts have also issued arrest warrants for several other suspects, including two Turkish citizens and a Thai woman married to one of the Turks. Judging by their names and identikit images, the others appear to be of Turkic ethnicity. The most important is the man now identified as the plot's "mastermind," Abdul Rehman Abdul Sattar, a 27-year old Xinjiang-born Uighur who flew out of Bangkok on Aug. 16, one day before the bombing.
     This marks real progress and has established that at some level, the attack hinged on the issue of Uighur refugees who have been fleeing repression in Xinjiang for Turkey via Thailand since 2010. Investigators have moved beyond early speculation involving the Thai domestic political conflict or the southern separatist insurgency.
     The first views the attack as the handiwork of a transnational criminal gang seeking payback for a crackdown by Thai law enforcement agencies on a people-smuggling operation. The gang is of shared Turkic ethnicity, involving Uighurs of possibly both Chinese and Turkish nationality, as well as Turks. With Thailand serving as a central transit point and organizational hub in regional people-smuggling, the crackdown that purportedly triggered the attack was initiated amid the Rohingya refugee crisis earlier this year.
     The second theory holds that the Erawan blast was an act of political terrorism by an alliance of Turks and Uighurs seeking to strike back at Chinese state repression of ethnic Uighurs in Xinjiang. The controversial deportation of 109 Uighur refugees by Bangkok in July may have been the trigger for an atrocity that targeted Thailand per se, rather than merely using Thai soil as a convenient location to get to Chinese tourists, who suffered the largest number of casualties.
     The first theory has obvious appeal for a Thai government interested in seeing the case closed as soon as possible.
     At one level, the theory of criminal conspiracy is undeniably grounded in emerging facts. A people-smuggling group was indeed involved in the attack.
     At another, the proposition of a crackdown also burnishes the image of the Thai police while diverting attention from the unpalatable reality that transnational criminal groups could not have moved thousands of illegal migrants through the country without the complicity of corrupt elements in the security services.
     Most importantly, it serves to shield Thailand's military government from political blowback from the decision to deport Uighur asylum seekers to China. That decision, which broke up families and undoubtedly condemned many to lengthy prison sentences or worse, was made despite international appeals and advice from some of Thailand's own intelligence agencies.
     Finally, the case for criminal revenge serves to shield Bangkok from the diplomatic implications of an international terrorist attack launched from foreign soil, which is implicit in the second theory, and which also has disturbing implications for Thailand's tourist industry. 
     Attractive as it is in official circles in Bangkok, however, the notion of a conspiracy hatched by people-smugglers suffers from two fundamental flaws. First, it flies in the face of the typical modus operandi of any criminal enterprise facing countermeasures by law enforcement agencies -- lie low and wait for a return to "business as usual."
     Even more critically, it ignores the striking professionalism of the bombing itself. This included the planning and targeting of the attack; the technically sophisticated nature of the two high-explosive devices and their triggering mechanism; the coordinated execution of two bombings intended to be broadly simultaneous; and the "field craft" displayed by the Erawan bomber with his yellow T-shirt, glasses and plastic bag -- almost certainly containing a second shirt for a change afterward. The proposition that a gang of people-smugglers could rise to this level of operational expertise defies serious analysis.
More rational examination of the evidence suggests the second theory of a politically driven revenge attack should carry greater weight. My own hypothesis has focused on a hybrid operation: a marriage of the skills and training of an organizational core group based overseas with the contacts and experience of an allied but locally based support group -- the people-smugglers -- able to facilitate border crossings, arrange local accommodation and source explosives and other components.
     The operation appears to have connections to individuals with backgrounds in China -- including Yusuf Mir Ali, understood to have graduated in chemical engineering from an as-yet unnamed Chinese university, and Abdul Rehman Abdul Sattar. But the organizational core is highly unlikely to have been based in Xinjiang, where the Uighur population faces relentless surveillance by state security. Turkey, where there is huge sympathy for the plight of ethnic cousins, is a more likely launchpad for such an operation. And the travel patterns uncovered in the investigation increasingly point back to Turkey. After biding his time in Bangladesh, Abdul Sattar flew into Istanbul on Aug. 30, according to informed sources.
     Turkey is a crossroads for several groups with the political motive and operational capability for the Bangkok attack. One is the Turkestan Islamic Party -- an all-Uighur, al-Qaida-linked jihadi organization. Its roots are in Pakistan's tribal areas but it fields a military battalion in Syria in alliance with the local al-Qaida franchise, the Nusra Front. Another is the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, which has declared its allegiance to the Islamic State group and has long included Uighurs from Xinjiang.
     There are two fundamental difficulties with the jihadi line of speculation. Tactically, both groups favor suicide attacks and Bangkok was not that. Strategically, both groups have active media wings and revel in publicity. The striking absence of any claim of responsibility makes it close to certain that neither was involved.
     One week after the blast, I raised the possibility at a Bangkok forum that elements affiliated with a far-right nationalist Turkish group, the Grey Wolves, might have been involved. The youth wing of the Nationalist Movement Party has a record of paramilitary and terrorist violence and makes no secret of championing the Uighur cause.
     At least one respected Turkish academic has rejected this hypothesis, pointing to the control exerted over the activities of the Grey Wolves by the politically mainstream Nationalist Movement Party leadership, and the fact that the group has never conducted mass-casualty bomb attacks abroad. This may be true, but it is worth noting that individuals with backgrounds in the Grey Wolves have on occasion been recruited and apparently supported by other covert interests, including elements within the security services with broader agendas and more sophisticated skill sets.
     Mehmet Ali Agca, who attempted to assassinate Pope John Paul II in 1981, is the most notorious example. A more recent case is that of Omer Guney, convicted for murdering three female Kurdish activists in Paris in January 2013.
     The high probability of a core organizational group operating out of Turkey poses major diplomatic headaches for Thailand. Any further investigations into suspects already believed to have fled to Turkey would require the cooperation of Turkish authorities. But since the deportation of the Uighurs in July, in disregard of pleas from Ankara that they were welcome in Turkey, relations between the two countries have been in deep freeze.
     Remarkably, Thai investigators are not known to have made any requests for cooperation from Turkey's foreign ministry, let alone its security and intelligence agencies. This approach is a striking echo of the position adopted by Thai authorities over two Iranian citizens named and implicated in the bungled Bangkok terrorist attacks of Feb. 14, 2012, targeted at Israeli diplomats. The suspects fled home to be quietly forgotten.
     Meanwhile, Ankara, already facing domestic political strains and the chaos in Syria, is unlikely to respond well to the suggestion, let alone accusation, that it is harboring a terrorist cell with international reach.
     Against this backdrop, the Thai police could be expected increasingly to focus their efforts on the emerging theory of a criminal conspiracy involving people-smugglers. It is an explanation that arguably best suits the interests of all the main parties involved. The loose ends will, as usual, be overtaken by events and forgotten soon enough.
Anthony Davis is a Bangkok-based security consultant and analyst with IHS-Jane's.
You have limited access. To enjoy full access, subscribe now.
Your subscription renewal has not been processed.Please update your payment information and enjoy full access.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week

Your subscription renewal could not be processed. Please update your payment information to continue enjoying the Nikkei Asian Review.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week


 Nikkei Asian Review is the only publication that brings you Insight about Asia, from the inside out.
 XXcontractNameXX has enabled you free full access to Nikkei Asian Review.
