2015-08~09
http://asia.nikkei.com/Politics-Economy/International-Relations/Uighur-issue-spreading-past-China-s-borders

Dangers of Xi's hard line: Uighur issue spreading past China's borders- Nikkei Asian Review

 
 A suspect arrested in connection with the Erawan bombing, center, is reportedly a Chinese Uighur.
 
 



 
 A suspect arrested in connection with the Erawan bombing, center, is reportedly a Chinese Uighur.
 
 

TOKYO -- Comments by Thai authorities on last month's bombing at a shrine in downtown Bangkok strongly suggest that it was an act of terrorism involving a Chinese Uighur.
     Soon after the incident, speculation abounded as to the reasons. A variety of potential domestic motives were raised, ranging from continued suppression of supporters of former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra by the military junta that took over after last year's coup, to a push for independence by Muslim separatists in the south.
     Yet the idea emerged early that the bombing was the doing of a Uighur from China with no ties to Thailand. The story behind that theory began more than a year ago.
Thai authorities announced in March 2014 that they had apprehended more than 200 people in the country without legal permission in the southern forests. The news media reported that the detainees did not state their nationality or claimed to be Turkish. Later investigation strengthened the view that they were Uighurs fleeing China.
     When the junta assumed power in the coup two months later, it faced the tricky question of what to do with the migrants. Both Beijing and Ankara asked for the detainees to be turned over to them.
     The junta, led by general-turned-Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, made its decision this July. More than 100 detainees were sent to Turkey with great fanfare. About the same number were quietly deported to China. The intent was likely to let both Ankara and Beijing save face. But the initial lack of an announcement on the deportation to China suggested a sense of guilt on the junta's part.
     News of the forced repatriation spread like wildfire across social media, quickly forcing Bangkok to announce the move. The decision outraged some Turks who felt a kinship with Uighurs, a fellow Turkic ethnic group, leading to attacks on Chinese and Thai diplomatic offices in Turkey. The idea that the Erawan Shrine bombing was an outgrowth of this is persuasive.
     A full accounting of the incident is still a long way off. With the junta apparently leaning closer to China on the diplomatic stage and dragging its feet on handing over power to a civilian government, its pronouncements must be taken with a grain of salt. Even so, it is undeniable that China's problems with Uighurs have rippled out beyond its borders.
Needless to say, this stems from the Chinese Communist Party's oppressive policies. Beijing seems to have clamped down even tighter on Uighurs since the July 2009 riots in Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region. Police entered private homes with no regard for due process, while China imposed tougher regulations on Muslim religious activities and clothing.
     At the same time, Beijing has used diplomacy to lean heavily on other countries to send fleeing Uighurs back. A well-known example came in December 2009, when Cambodia deported 20 Uighurs back to China under pressure from Beijing. Despite an outcry from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and international human rights groups, the Communist Party has shown no inclination to ease up, taking a similar tack with the Nepali government.
     In deporting Uighur migrants to China, Thailand was following the pattern set by other neighbors of China. But the international community's view that Uighurs returned to China from elsewhere are persecuted forced Bangkok to furnish an explanation.
     The issue of how to handle migrants who have entered a country without going through the proper channels is a thorny one, as the recent turmoil in the European Union shows. Ultimately, the root of the problem -- why these people left their homelands in the first place -- must be looked at.
     On this point, the situation of the Uighurs differs from that of Syrians, whose country is riven by a seemingly endless civil war. The Uighurs' problem is, in essence, the Communist Party's policies. President Xi Jinping's stance could be considered the key point.
     Sadly, as Xi cracks down on the Uighurs, more bloody incidents come to light. Zhang Chunxian, the top Communist Party official in Xinjiang, pledged in August of last year to take drastic steps to fight terrorism. The globalization of the Uighur issue may be just beginning. Beijing's hard line does not inspire confidence.
You have limited access. To enjoy full access, subscribe now.
Your subscription renewal has not been processed.Please update your payment information and enjoy full access.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week

Your subscription renewal could not be processed. Please update your payment information to continue enjoying the Nikkei Asian Review.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week


 Nikkei Asian Review is the only publication that brings you Insight about Asia, from the inside out.
 XXcontractNameXX has enabled you free full access to Nikkei Asian Review.
