2015-08~09
http://www.worldbulletin.net/asia-pacific/164594/thai-police-to-charge-uighur-with-bangkok-bombing

Thai police to charge Uighur with Bangkok bombing | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
Thai police said Friday they are preparing to charge a suspect in last month’s bombing of a Bangkok shrine that killed 20 people.
Srivara Rangsi-prammanaku, head of Bangkok police, told reporters Friday night that investigators had found enough evidence and witnesses to “definitely” prove Bilal Muhammed -- also known as Adem Karadag -- was the man seen in CCTV footage planting the Aug. 17 bomb at the Erawan Shrine.
Srivara added that police are now filing additional charges with a local court. 
Muhammed, a Uighur who claims to have lived in Turkey for the last 10 years, was the first suspect detained in connection with the bombing and a subsequent blast at a river pier.
He was apprehended on Aug. 29 in possession of a badly forged Turkish passport at the same apartment where bomb-making materials and hundreds of other fake Turkish passports were found.
The Uighur are a Muslim Turkic minority from northwestern China who claim their cultural and religious rights are curtailed by the Chinese authorities. Thousands have fled with the aid of people smugglers, some to settle in Turkey.
Earlier Friday, National Police Chief Somyot Poompanmoung addressed media reports claiming Muhammed has confessed to planting the bomb, saying such a confession would not stand up in court and more evidence was needed.
“The confession alone would not stand up in a trial,” he told reporters. “We need to continue this investigation.”
Responding to the impending charges, Muhammed’s lawyer told Anadolu Agency the allegations “did not add up”, noting his client had been interrogated through the night earlier this week, just a day after being hospitalized.
Choochart Khanphai also maintained his client was not in the country at the time of the bombing.
“My client arrived in Thailand on Aug. 21, days after the bombing,” he told Anadolu Agency on Friday. He added: “Muhammed knows nothing whatsoever about the bombing.”
He said Muhammed was passing though Thailand to Malaysia, where he was looking for a job.
Khanpai claimed Muhammed -- one of two suspects arrested to date -- is a Turkish national but said that he had admitted to traveling on a fake Turkish passport.
Since the explosion, the police investigation has focused on human trafficking gangs responsible for smuggling refugees from China to Turkey.
Police maintain the bombing was not an act of terrorism but a revenge attack by criminal elements upset at Thailand's crackdown on human trafficking.
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe
Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

UN sees need for space travel rules within 5 years

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
