2015-08~09
http://www.businessspectator.com.au/article/2015/8/7/china/xi-jinping-ccps-servant

Xi Jinping, the CCP's servant | Business Spectator
Alan Kohler is one of Australia’s most experienced business commentators. Alan has been a trusted source of investment advice to Australians for many years, and in 2005 he founded Eureka Report - Australia’s #1 online investment report. Along with Robert Gottliebsen and Stephen Bartholomeusz, Alan also founded Business Spectator, the popular business news and commentary website. Alan is the regular finance presenter on the ABC News and producer of the popular nightly graph (or two).
East Asia ForumAfter almost three years of Xi Jinping’s leadership in China, it is a good time to take stock of what has been achieved.
Xi has been spoken of as the new strong man in Chinese politics, a dominant figure who has accrued an array of party, military and state positions. He sits as chair of four of the eight all-important ‘Small Leading Groups’, which have the most influence over formulating policy in key strategic areas. Since 2013, through his anti-corruption campaign, his leadership has ensnared powerful figures from former Politburo Standing Committee member Zhou Yongkang to a deputy director of the Ministry of State Security and figures in provincial government and the state enterprise system.
Ideologically, he personally authored a statement after the Third Plenum in late 2013 that made the market ‘necessary’ rather than ‘preferential’ for reform. The themes of his first phase in power have been strengthening rule by law, enforcing higher standards of behaviour in the Chinese Communist Party and focusing on reassuring China’s emerging middle class through stronger property rights and greater social equity.
His leadership has also seen a new purposefulness about managing China’s serious environmental issues, the highlight of this being the historic accord signed with the US in November 2014. Xi has been a tireless diplomat, explaining China’s role in the world in tours to Latin America, the US, Europe, Australia and within Asia. By establishing the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank in 2015, he has even managed to steal some of the global economic management space from the dominance of the US.
But there is also a less positive side. A fierce crackdown on intellectuals who criticise the party’s style of rule has been ongoing since 2013. Lawyers like Xu Zhiyong, journalists like Gao Yu and feminist activists have all been detained, and in some cases handed draconian sentences. A White Paper on Tibet issued by the Chinese State Council in April 2015 was categorical in its assertion that Tibet’s current political status and management could not be changed, despite continuing self-immolations by protestors. Uyghur academic Ilham Tohti was sentenced to life imprisonment in 2014 on charges of ‘separatism’. On Hong Kong and Taiwan, Xi’s leadership is hardline. He supports a very highly managed framework for direct elections for a chief executive for the former, and demands that political issues need to figure in the current debate with the latter, rather than pushed endlessly into the future.
China is, by the reckoning of its own leaders, in a period of tough transition. Growth is falling below 7 per cent. Healthcare and education are increasingly becoming focuses of government attention. The hunt for fast, diverse, sustainable growth is urgent. Xi Jinping is talked of as a Maoist figure: grabbing all the power to himself but the political program and strategy since 2012 is better characterised as supporting one overriding objective: continuing stable and unchallenged rule by the Communist Party of China. As long as Xi Jinping is seen as promoting this, his position is secure. The party, not Xi, is the emperor of 21st Century China.
Kerry Brown is Director of the China Studies Centre and Professor of Chinese Politics at the University of Sydney. This article appeared in the most recent edition of the East Asia Forum Quarterly, ‘Leadership in the region'.This article was first published by East Asia Forum and is reproduced with permission
Xi Jinping is not interested in so-called personal freedom of Western -style Liberal Democracy. It took over 500 years for this to develop in the West with its plethora of checks and balances, and for it to become accepted as normality in Western society. Why on earth so-called experts and pundits constantly expect that this can be readily transplanted elsewhere, as if flicking a switch, is quite beyond imagination or reality. Simply look at Iraq and Afghanistan for the most recent examples.
The over-riding consideration of China is political stability and improving peoples livelihood. These are the twin bases of the Mandate of Heaven as claimed by the CCP.  Western -style "democracy", with its adversarial political system, is not something that China wants nor needs. It simply cannot afford the luxury of risking its society tearing itself apart.
The ancient maxim that the Empire is strong when Central Authority is strong, and disintegrates into regionalism and warlordism when Central Authority is weak, still holds true. A maxim which is followed by the CCP.  Many in the West are thrown by the title of the governing institution, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), with all its connotations of gulag style repression of the Soviet era. Perhaps it would help if its name were changed to what it actually is... The Chinese Confucian Party.... following in the cultural traditions of its 4000 year history of political governance. So far it has been doing an amazing job!
Only economical changes, same one party dictatorship for 70 years. One wonders, when freedom comes?
China bears might dominate the narrative, but if the country can make 
meaningful progress on reform the future might not be as dire as many are 
predicting.


The President has run into mounting resistance over the Communist Party’s 
efforts to tighten its vice even more completely over China.


A ruthless pragmatism focused on economic results has given way to 
politicians weighing the effects of policy on the party’s standing.


A more optimistic view of China’s prospects has helped oil and iron ore 
claw back some of the recent price plunges, but it’s unclear if the 
comeback is sustainable.


There is talk of plans to demerge Origin Energy’s utility business from its 
exploration and production assets.


A $1b public offering of the privately-owned Reliance Worldwide plumbing 
valve manufacturer, gathers pace.


One of the two main shareholders of Cement Australia could be divesting its 
50 per cent stake in the business.


Nine last night bought 9.9% of Southern Cross Media, sparking takeover 
speculation.


There’s a good chance there’ll be no double dissolution but if there is 
Turnbull will fight the ALP and Greens.


Neither the ASX nor ASIC would be comfortable with even the slightest shadow 
over the integrity of the people charged with overseeing the markets.


With Qantas looking to tap NBN satellites for on-board Wi-Fi NBN Co should 
get the ball rolling on a third satellite.




 Abbott was warned about his dependence on chief of staff Credlin, but those words fell on deaf ears. 
