2015-08~09
http://www.customstoday.com.pk/chinese-delegation-discusses-trade-investment-issues-with-fpcci/

Chinese delegation discusses trade, investment issues with FPCCI | Customs Today Newspaper
KARACHI: A high-level trade delegation from China invited Pakistani counterparts to become their partners in various projects.
The offer was made when an 11-member delegation from western China’s Xinjiang Autonomous region, representing different economic sectors, visited the Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FPCCI) on Saturday.
The Chinese delegation discussed issues relating to trade and investment between Xinjiang and Pakistan, exchange information regarding trade and investment opportunities available on both sides, and find their partners in different sectors.
FPCCI leadership and the visiting Chinese delegates agreed and supported that the coming closer of both the business communities and entering maximum joint ventures would benefit both the neighbouring countries—China and Pakistan- and further boost their economic and social relationship.
The delegation was led by Director General, Department of Commerce of Xinjiang province, Yiming. FPCCI Vice Presidents Muhammad Waseem Vohra and Muhammad Ikram Rajput, FPCCI Secretary General, M.A.Lodhi welcomed the guests.
In his remarks, FPCCI Vice President Muhammad Waseem Vohra acknowledged the economic potential of the nearest Xinjiang province of China, which has created deep interest of Pakistan to engage in trade and investment in this province along with its thirst to find more such opportunities in other provinces of China.
He emphasized on promoting bilateral trade and investment in Xinjiang and Pakistan by especially mobilizing both the business communities.
He praised China for always supporting Pakistan on different accounts. He described China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) as a revolutionary step, which would be very beneficial not only for these two countries but entire region.
Yiming, Director General, Commerce Department of Xinjiang and Head of the delegation informed the meeting that big Chinese companies wanted to start their operations in Pakistan if they are extended required facilitation and cooperation.
He said the trade between Pakistan and Xinjiang province has significantly increased over a last couple of years and a big boost is expected after the completion of CPEC.
Xinjiang Government wanted to increase investment in Pakistan mainly in the industrial zones and agriculture-based projects.
“First, we want to focus important projects in multiple fields,” he remarked adding that all kind of Pakistani companies can do business in Xinjiang province.
He said,” we want to import more Pakistani products.” He said a Xinjiang transport company is ready to provide its service for promoting bilateral trade.
Yiming offered full cooperation to Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FPCCI) and invited its delegations to Xinjiang to see trade and investment opportunities.
A delegate said that his company was looking for partnership in seafood.
Another member of the Chinese delegation from Steel industry in Xinjiang said Pakistan can benefit from his company’s steel products for housing and construction sector including the construction of railway stations and railway bridges. M. Javed Khalili presented vote of thanks.