2015-08~09
http://www.news24.com/World/News/Bangkok-bomb-suspect-identified-Thai-chief-20150818

Bangkok bomb 'suspect' identified - Thai chief | News24
Myanmar's parliament elects a new president as the head of the country's first democratically elected government, but it won't be Aung San Suu Kyi, the widely known face of the country's decades long struggle against military rule.
Thai rescue workers carry an injured person after a bomb exploded outside a religious shrine in central Bangkok. (Pornchai Kittiwongsakul, AFP)

Multimedia   Â·   User Galleries   Â·   News in Pictures
Send us your pictures  Â·  Send us your stories

Bangkok - Thailand's junta chief on Tuesday said authorities
are hunting a "suspect" seen on CCTV footage near the scene of a bombing
that claimed at least 22 lives in Bangkok and wounded scores more.
"Today there is a suspect who appeared on CCTV but it's
not clear... we are looking for this guy," he said, adding the suspect was
believed to be from an "anti-government group based in Thailand's
northeast" - the heartland of the kingdom's anti-coup Red Shirt movement.
Thai authorities have also not ruled out any group,
including elements opposed to the military government. Officials said the
bombing did not match tactics used by insurgents in the south.
Eight foreigners were among those killed by the bombing at a
popular shrine on Monday evening, an attack that could hurt Thailand's vital tourism
industry.
Police teams were deployed to the blood-splattered site
early on Tuesday, some wearing white gloves and carrying plastic bags,
searching for clues.
"Police are not ruling out anything including [Thai]
politics and the conflict of ethnic Uighurs who, before this, Thailand sent
back to China," National Police Chief Somyot Pumpanmuang told reporters.
Hundreds, possibly thousands, of the Turkic-speaking and
largely Muslim minority have fled unrest in China's western Xinjiang region,
where hundreds of people have been killed, prompting a crackdown by Chinese
authorities. Many Uighurs have travelled through Southeast Asia to Turkey.
Prime Minister General Prayuth Chan-ocha told reporters there
were "still anti-government groups out there" but gave no further
details.
Officials have not blamed any group for the bombing at the
Erawan shrine, which the government called a bid to destroy the economy. No one
has claimed responsibility.
Prayuth said the attack, which took place during rush hour
in the capital's bustling commercial hub, was unprecedented in Thailand.
Police Chief Somyot said the blast was caused by a pipe
bomb.
National police spokesperson Prawut Thavornsiri said the
death toll stood at 22, with 123 people wounded.
Three Chinese were among the dead, China's official Xinhua
news agency said. Two Hong Kong residents, two people from Malaysia and one
person from the Philippines also died, officials said. Scores of people were
wounded, including many from China and Taiwan.
Thailand has been riven for a decade by a sometimes violent
struggle for power between political factions in Bangkok.
Occasional small blasts have been blamed on one side or the
other. Two pipe bombs exploded outside a luxury shopping mall in the same area
in February, but caused little damage.
Thai forces are also fighting a low-level Muslim insurgency
in the predominantly Buddhist country's south, but those rebels have rarely
launched attacks outside their heartland.
"This does not match with incidents in southern
Thailand. The type of bomb used is also not in keeping with the south,"
Royal Thai Army chief and deputy defence minister General Udomdej Sitabutr said
in a televised interview.
24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.
24.com publishes all comments posted on articles provided that they adhere to our Comments Policy. Should you wish to report a comment for editorial review, please do so by clicking the 'Report Comment' button to the right of each comment.
How to make the most of the long weekend and Easter break.
...it's me, AGAIN! Anje Rautenbach reaches out to SA's busiest airport.
Time to get into the Easter spirit if you haven't already!

 Cape TownHire ResolveR280 000 - R360 000 Per Year
There is a tendency to over spend or have unrealistic expectations that could affect your budget. Slow down a bit and reorganise...read more
After a fun-filled weekend of playing, it is time to focus on reorganising your daily rhythm. Work before play is the focus for...read more
It is easy to overreact today as the under current energy is quite tense and heated. Try to remain calm and avoid the people and...read more
Just because you can`t see it, doesn`t mean it is not there. Let go of outwardly looking for directions and rely on your insight...read more
Focus on your foundations. Make sure they are solid before pushing ahead too quickly. There is a tendency to overreact or push too...read more
The moon moves into the ordered sign of Virgo emphasising the need to slow down and reorganise your daily rhythm. Too much of a...read more
You may find yourself becoming more critical and frustrated today as things may not flow as easily and harmoniously. The...read more
Try not to obsess too much on what you cannot have, and focus on pacing yourself back into reality and finding a way to create a...read more
As much as you like things to be endless and limitless and abundant, at some point you need to contain these dreams and ideals to...read more
If things are not working your way. Stop for a moment and look at other options. Pushing, forcing or reacting will not solve the...read more
The moon has now moved into analytical and ordered Virgo. It is a good time to take your creative ideas and dreams and find a...read more
The moon moves out of playful Leo throwing you back into the tendency to over analyse and over think things. Try not to push so...read more
News24 on Android
 Get the latest from News24 on your Android device.

TV
 Get us in your home, on your television. 

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.
This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

 News24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location.
 If you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences, please select a
 location for each component and click "Submit" in order for the changes to
 take affect.

 Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.


 Log in with Facebook to comment and personalise news, weather and listings.
