2014-07~09
http://america.aljazeera.com/articles/2014/7/31/uighur-scholar-detained.html

China indicts Uighur scholar and activist | Al Jazeera America
The browser or device you are using is out of date. It has known security flaws and a limited feature set. You will not see all the features of some websites. Please update your browser. A list of the most popular browsers can be found below.
A prominent ethnic Uighur professor from China's Xinjiang region could be tried on separatism charges within weeks, his lawyer said on Thursday, in a case that has attracted concern over judicial and human rights abuses.
China on Wednesday formally indicted Ilham Tohti, an economist who has championed the rights of the Muslim Uighur community from the region, which has been beleaguered by violence and ethnic tension.
The case has attracted high-level concern in the United States and the European Union and from Human Rights Watch, the PEN American Center writers group and others, which warned that squelching moderate Uighur voices could worsen tensions in the region.
"The decision to indict on such a serious charge a man like Ilham Tohti, who is known for trying to bridge divides, shows how far China's human rights have deteriorated in the past months," Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch, said in an emailed statement. "It sends precisely the wrong signal to Uighurs when tensions are at an all-time high."
Beijing police detained Tohti in January and later took him to the Xinjiang capital Urumqi, where he was accused of promoting and supporting the region's independence from China.
The Urumqi prosecutor said in a statement on its microblog on Wednesday that Tohti's case had been turned over to a city court, which his lawyer said violated legal procedures.
Defense lawyer Li Fangping said prosecutors ignored written and verbal requests for court material and had not notified lawyers or family when the case was turned over to the court.
"They have not given us any formal response and they have not heard our legal defense opinions. They directly sent it to the Urumqi Intermediate Court. This is fundamentally a violation of law," Li said.
"It was extremely unexpected. The prosecutors are neglecting the rights of legal defense," Li said.
Li said if the court moved quickly, the case could be heard some time in August and it was unclear if he would be allowed to attend.
Tohti has denied the separatism charges he faces, serious allegations that carry a maximum punishment of death. The Communist Party tightly controls courts and guilty verdicts in such cases are typically a foregone conclusion.
Tohti, who teaches at Beijing's Minzu University, which specializes in ethnic minority studies, has said he has "relied only on pen and paper to diplomatically request" human rights and legal rights for Uighurs.
Tohti's supporters say he has challenged the government's version of several incidents involving Uighurs by pointing out inconsistencies. That includes what China says was its first major suicide attack, in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October.
"I really can't take it. How could they do this? They didn't even notify his family," Tohti's wife, Guzailai Nu'er, said of the handling of the case.
"My husband didn't do any of these things. He is a university professor. He teaches," she said by telephone.
Hundreds of people have been killed in Xinjiang over the past year, including some police, according to state media.
Activists say the government's repressive policies, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest. The government denies this.
The announcement on Tohti's case came as security forces flooded parts of southern Xinjiang, after the government said dozens of knife-wielding attackers were shot dead this week.
On Monday, the government said people armed with knives and axes killed or injured dozens of people in Shache county near the city of Kashgar in Xinjiang's far west. Official reports said police killed dozens of the assailants, who reportedly first attacked police and government offices before turning on civilians. More details have not been released and the precise death toll remains unknown.
Activists say local officials' move aims to 'dilute the religious environment' in the restive region
Uighur rights advocates say outdoor barbecue ban is a way of pushing their beleaguered community out of Beijing
But Uyghur experts question whether the Turkistan Islamic Party even exists
Sorry, your comment was not saved due to a technical problem. Please try again later or using a different browser.
Yoga used to help kids cope with violence in Chicago