2014-07~09
http://www.heraldscotland.com/news/world-news/professor-to-appeal-life-sentence.25421283

Professor to appeal life sentence (From Herald Scotland)
We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience. By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies.
CHINA'S most prominent advocate for the rights of Muslim Uighur people will appeal against a life prison sentence that drew criticism from Western countries including the US.

 A court in the western region of Xinjiang sentenced economics professor Ilham Tohti, 44, on separatism charges on Tuesday in a move condemned by the US, the European Union and international rights groups.


 Tohti, who is an ethnic Uighur, is the latest mo­derate intellectual to be convicted by Chinese ­President Xi Jinping's administration.


 The government has blamed violent attacks in which hundreds of people have been killed on Islamist militants from Xinjiang who it says want to establish an independent state there.


 But Tohti, who taught at Beijing's Minzu University, which specialises in ethnic minority studies, has said he never associated with any terrorist organisation.


 His lawyer Li Fangping said Tohti was denied food for more than 10 days and kept in leg irons for 40 days before his trial.

We moderate all comments on Herald Scotland on either a pre-moderated or post-moderated basis. If you're a relatively new user then your comments will be reviewed before publication and if we know you well and trust you then your comments will be subject to moderation only if other users or the moderators believe you've broken the rules
Moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours. Please be patient if your posts are not approved instantly.
Please note: Disqus comments are provided for information only. No new comments will be accepted
This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then please contact the editor here. If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here