2014-07~09
http://www.theadvocate.com.au/story/2473779/china-frees-religious-freedom-campaigner-gao-zhisheng/

China frees religious-freedom campaigner Gao Zhisheng | The Advocate

 After more than three years since they last spoke, Gao Zhisheng’s telephone exchange with his wife after being released from jail was frantically brief.

Beijing: After more than three years since they last spoke, Gao Zhisheng’s telephone exchange with his wife after being released from jail was frantically brief.
“He asked me, ‘how is your health?’” Mr Gao’s wife, Geng He, said. “I said, ‘how is your health?’”
“My teeth are no good,” he responded. And then, amid commotion in the background, the phone was handed to Ms Geng’s sister who explained there was “someone coming”. The reunion, lasting a matter of seconds, was over.
Gao Zhisheng, a 50-year-old firebrand human rights lawyer whose activism had seen him nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, has spent much of the past eight years in detention, including spells of “forced disappearances” where he was held incommunicado for so long he was even feared dead.
The prominent critic of the Chinese government, whose imprisonment and accounts of torture has long sparked international condemnation, was released on Thursday morning – amid a shroud of secrecy, intimidation, and concerns that he will continue to be deprived of his freedom even outside of prison.
Mr Gao, best-known for his fiery defence of members of the politically sensitive Falun Gong movement and underground Christians, was first detained in 2006. He gave graphic accounts of being tortured and repeatedly beaten when he briefly resurfaced in 2010, only to be jailed again in 2011 on charges of inciting subversion.
Ms Geng, who fled to the United States with their daughter and son in 2009, was told by her sister that Mr Gao had numerous loose teeth in his mouth and was unable to chew solid food – evidence she said that he was again tortured while imprisoned.
“It proves 100 per cent that he sustained inhumane torture and wasn’t allowed adequate medical treatment,” Ms Geng said in a telephone interview from San Francisco.
Rights groups and activists say it is Mr Gao’s high-profile and belligerent determination to speak out on even the most politically-sensitive issues which makes him a thorn in the Chinese government’s side.
“Gao is among the most influential of Chinese human rights lawyers,” said rights lawyer Teng Biao. “He dared to speak for Falun Gong practitioners, and to speak the truth during the most sensitive periods. This is what the authorities are most scared of.”
For hours, it was unclear whether Mr Gao had actually been freed from the remote Xayar desert prison, in the far-western region of Xinjiang where he was held.
Ms Geng said her husband’s older brother, Gao Zhiyi, who had travelled to the prison to meet him, but was warned by security personnel not to say anything to anyone.
“Let me tell you, don’t ask anything about this right now,” his brother, Gao Zhiyi, said when reached by Fairfax Media earlier on Thursday afternoon. “It’s not convenient right now; let’s talk about in a few more days.”
Mr Gao’s lawyers were also not told whether he was released.
“I am not sure whether he has been released or not,” Li Xiongbing said. “I was just warned not to try to pick him up [from prison]. This is the reality of China.”
Mr Gao’s other lawyer, Li Subin, said: “I am not sure whether he is released or not … it’s not convenient to talk about this right now.”
Officials at the county's police and judiciary said they had no knowledge of the matter.
Ms Geng said she only received confirmation through their brief exchange late on Thursday night that Mr Gao was indeed free and was staying with her father in Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang.
Human rights groups condemned the secrecy around Mr Gao’s scheduled release, and said their chief concern was that Mr Gao could face “being disappeared” again or be subjected to extrajudicial house arrest.
“It’s quite a common tactic [in dealing with] prominent activists,” Human Rights Watch researcher Maya Wang said, citing other high-profile precedents including lawyer Chen Guangcheng and Mongol activist Hada. “The concern is whether or not he will have freedom of movement and whether he will be disappeared again.”
Ms Geng, who evaded surveillance in her escape to the United States, said her husband would constantly be monitored while he remained in China.
“When can Gao Zhisheng really be free? I will keep working toward this. I think he really needs to come home and be with his family.”
Mr Gao’s release from jail has come amid the detention of other prominent rights advocates, including lawyer Pu Zhiqiang and Ilham Tohti, who has been charged with separatism despite his reputation as a respected and moderate voice in campaigning for Uighur rights.
Prosecutors accuse Mr Tohti of being the leader of a group advocating for the creation of an independent Uighur state in Xinjiang, amid worsening violence in the far-western region and a government crackdown on religious expression among the largely Muslim ethnic minority.
Mr Tohti’s lawyers have been routinely denied access to the university lecturer since he was first taken from his Beijing home in January.
In a meeting on Tuesday with Mr Tohti, lawyers Li Fangping and Liu Xiaoyuan said they were not provided with the supporting material for their client’s indictment, nor were they informed of a trial date and whether it would be an open trial.
Mr Liu said Mr Tohti rejected the prosecutors’ allegations and broke down when they passed on photos of his daughter and two sons.
“He pressed the photos to his face and kissed them,” Mr Liu said. “He asked to keep them but in the end they were taken away by the [detention centre] guard.”
The story China frees religious-freedom campaigner Gao Zhisheng first appeared on The Sydney Morning Herald.
Prince Harry is on a five-day visit to Nepal, his first official tour of the country.
 

Delacombe mechanic poses for trophy photo after hunting down alleged car thief.
 

Australia keep their hopes of qualifying for the ICC World T20 semi-finals alive with a narrow three-wicket win ...
 

Check out all the Fairfax front pages from across the national network.
 
