2014-07~09
http://phuketwan.com/tourism/australia-hits-low-exports-refugees-poor-asian-country-21065/

Australia Exports Refugees to Cambodia - Phuket Wan
Sign up now for our News Alert emails and the latest breaking news plus new features.
I'm right here in phnom penh and have been many times before. There aren't hundreds of sex workers at wat phnom, but maybe 20. Never saw police arresting anyone. Almost every night there are two police cars parked 20 meters away from one spot, which is also in front of the American embassy. Last week there was a pickup loaded with police and it was business as usual.
That's as far as you got without letting your bigotry loose, Chalongian.
In Australia Morrison calls refugees illegals and centrelink seekers, for Cambodia he calls them skilful enterprenuers and our media dutifully report his nonsense.
Bigotry and selfishness are so easy for populist politicians to activate, particularly in countries where materialism has overwhelmed morality.
Every time I'm in Phnom Penh I am amazed at the 50000euro cars driven by the different NGO s. Dozens of them all from different associations around the world! Evenings the best restaurants are packed with these people. While I am certainly thankful that they are present in 3 rd world countries, I would like to know what they actually do to help the poor and starving families living on the pavements.I have been many times to Cambodia, and have not seen any improvement at all. So where is all this aid going ? 
If it's to the local governments, then shame on all the western governments for letting this happen! 
When will they wake up and realize that they are only encouraging political corruption, and leaving the Cambodians to their sorry life ?
The 'refugees' you talk about fly into Indonesia, burn their passports and pay tens of thousands of dollars to people smugglers while GENUINE refugees wait their turn in camps around the world. If you go the right way about it then Australia takes in many refugees. The government is stopping queue jumpers. If you study your facts you will find that more than half of the so called refugees from Sri Lanka were actually Tamils living in India where they are not in any danger. If you come from Iraq or Afganistan where the average wage is less than a dollar a day how can you afford to to pay all that money to smugglers? Are you a drug runner, arms dealer or sponsored by a terrorist organisation? I think Australia has every right to determine who comes and who doesn't. Not any organisation or any other country. I don't want Australia to end up like the UK.
If you do some research, Peter, you'll find that this is a volunteer scheme and that the people who will be sent to Cambodia qualify as refugees - to international standards. This is the ''place of refuge'' where Australia plans to send them instead of fulfilling its international obligations in a normal, humane manner. Cambodia. Champagne all round. 

Australia is a big country with a heart the size of a pea. Selfish people run it and inspire other selfish people to find lame excuses for their me-first myopia. How sad it is when the land of the ''fair go'' turns its back on the downtrodden and the oppressed. Little wonder people get angry.
Ed
They are the queue jumpers, why should they get preference in front of people who do it the right way? Who are you to judge my country anyway? Refugees are taken in to Australia every year by the thousands. If you jump the queue by getting in a boat then you won't be settled in Australia simple. Don't try and take the high road with me mate and call me a bigot or racist because I am not.
Give us the numbers, Peter, show how Australia is so caring for refugees. Do your research. Compare the ''great Australia'' with other countries. You will be surprised. Australia is a nation overloaded with bigots. This is a breach of international standards. The rest of the thinking world is shocked and revolted.

Here's a bit more of Australia's grubby recent history: 

CHILDREN OVERBOARD: During the 2001 federal election campaign, PM John Howard publicly repeated dubious claims from within his own party that children had been thrown overboard from a boatload of 223 mostly Iraqi asylum seekers near Christmas Island, supposedly as a ploy to be rescued by HMAS Adelaide and admitted to Australia. Howard said he didn't want people who would do such a thing in this country, and polls suggested his "strong" stance on border protection helped the coalition get re-elected with an increased majority.

A senate inquiry later found the claims were false, and that images of children in the sea were taken after the refugee vessel sank. "They [asylum seekers] irresponsibly sank the damn boat, which put their children in the water," Howard responded in his 2007 recent book, The Howard Factor, although the cause of the sinking was never established. More recently, sustained populist opposition to "queue jumpers" has made finding ever harsher deterrents for seafaring asylum seekers (and their children) a grim obsession within both major parties.
Same thing happens in Canada - all Canadians and Australians (save for 1'st nations people) originally came from somewhere else - but then many of the incumbents develop an insidious disease called "entitlement-superiority-me-first-fu--you syndrome."

But their poop still stinks - imagine that - a double-standard on a little shi--y one way street.

signed,

"superior" poop
I love my country but a lot of times I am ashamed of the people we, the electorate, vote into Parliament.
Now Morrison and co are talking about removing all reference to the UN Convention on Human Rights and similar for refugees from all immigration law in Australia.
The problem begins, Arthur, with people who file comments like this one below. People without minds or hearts that real Aussies are forced to share their country with: 

Ed... If you had it your way there could be more of this, and possibly worse, happening. "news.com.au Police say the teenager produced a knife and stabbed the federal agent multiple times, while the Victoria Police officer was stabbed twice in the forearm. The Victorian Police officer discharged a single shot, killing the man." Australia is very lucky not to have a bigoted person, you, living on its soil. Thailand is a good place for you.
Ed,
 See you select the responses you put up and discard the one's that show you up. Tosser
We certainly discard the ones that range widely to avoid the issue, peter, and that can't be supported by facts. Mostly, we also ditch those that resort to personal abuse, too. That usually happens when readers realise their argument is wrong.

Just in case you missed it: 

<b>foreignpolicy.com</b> On Friday, one of the world's wealthiest nations convinced one of the world's poorest to take in its unwanted refugees. Human rights groups say the plan will essentially make Cambodia a ''human dumping ground'' for asylum seekers that Australia is unwilling to accommodate.
Over 200 years ago England used Australia as a dumping ground for it's own people it didn't want.
Here's your link to the facts you say I could not support
(link removed because it distorts the page)
 You started the abuse claiming we are a country who is full of people with a heart the size of a pea. You call us bigots but you are being a bigot by having a go at an entire nation. That is hypocritical.
The generosity of Australians after the tsunami has absolutely nothing to do with Australia's treatment of refugees, Peter - unless you really do think that the arrival of boatpeople off Australia's shores is another natural disaster. What's certainly true is that a lot has changed in Australia in the past 10 years. 
Both Liberal and Labor governments have supported this kind of policy, so it's fair to say that these unreasonable policies have the overwhelming support of the majority of Australians. There was a time when Australia led the region by settling a good example. Those days have gone. Australia these days is notorious for its selfishness. It's a big country with a heart the size of a pea. 

By the way, both my grandfathers fought at Gallipoli. I am perfectly entitled to criticise my country. Your comparison with Britain dumping its unwanted in Australia is apt. 

I am not the only critic: 

A new low in Australia's deplorable and inhumane treatment of asylum seekers has been reached with a deal to apparently ship refugees to Cambodia, where respect for their human rights cannot be guaranteed, said Amnesty International.
Fair enough I'll play along and accept that my views are bigoted, but can you please explain to me why the refugees have to make such a long dangerous trip to Australia in the first place. Why not stop at Malaysia or Indonesia, vastly reducing the risk of journey, and claim asylum in a country that almost exclusively shares the same religion /ideology and food much closer to their own style?
probably because they've been watching afl games on australianetwork for long enough to know what they prefer. If you come from a poor country with no future, is it logical to aim for a slightly less poor country with a fractionally better future? Do you realise how many appealing countries the first fleet had to pass before reaching australia?
Like most Aussies I am happy with the way the Australian govt treats boat people
Why would they throw their documents away if they are real refugees
There are enough lazy people in Australia already living of tax payers money, who wants more of them

 Posted by
 Peter Allen
 on
 October 1, 2014 13:55

I can tell you for a start that people who are stateless don't have documents. Clearly, the UN and international agencies are better equipped to determine who is and who isn't a refugee. To have power-hungry politicians pandering to the selfish in the soulless suburbs of Australia marks the concept of the ''fair go'' as something people like you never learned. Sad for a once-proud nation.
Australia may be a big country as the editor says but its population is only 23 million of which about 8 million are tax payers
People prepared to work for a living can live well, even people on social security do OK and we have enough of them already
Genuine refugees who apply through the correct channels have always been welcomed and get the same benefits as a unemployed Aussie, which some Aussies prefer to working for a living
Why wouldn't people want to live in Australia, better than growing opium poppies, being a dictators bodyguard or a mass murderer
Some people do destroy their documents hoping to get into Australia via a people smuggler without them, if the editor followed the history of boat people he would know this, he sounds like a whining pom to me who likes calling other people names

 Posted by
 Peter Allen
 on
 October 1, 2014 15:41

Both my grandfathers fought at Gallipoli, PA, one was seriously wounded and the other went on to the Western front where he was gassed in the trenches. Were they fighting for your kind of Australia? No way. You need to be led by the hand to see the lives of these people. Then perhaps, like Scrooge, you would quickly understand how little selfishness and money really matter. You're not fair dinkum. Australia deserves people with courage and big hearts. Yours has shriveled up.