2014-07~09
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2014/08/01/China-claims-to-have-killed-nine-terror-suspects/2141406920731/

Nine terror suspects killed in China - UPI.com
BEIJING, Aug. 1 (UPI) -- Chinese media announced nine terror suspects were killed, and another captured, in Xinjiang province Friday, without citing their alleged crimes.
The Xinhua news agency, quoting reports by police, said the deaths occurred in Xinjiang's Hotan prefecture. The province in northwestern China has seen conflict between native Uighurs, who are Muslim, and the Han Chinese, who make up the majority of China's population.
The province includes 10 million Uighurs and 8 million Han. When the Communist era began in China in 1949, only 220,000 Han were present in Xinjiang. Uighurs complain of high unemployment, discrimination by the Han, and harsh treatment by the police.
Monday a knife- and axe-wielding gang terrorized a city in southern Xinjiang before police shot and killed what Xinhua described as dozens of suspects. The incident was the latest in a series of incidents in the province, including two suicide bombings and the assassination Thursday of a prominent Uighur religious leader in the city of Kasghar.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.