2014-07~09
http://www.japanherald.com/index.php/sid/224299255/scat/4a8b544d0e80ba53/ht/US-Concerned-Over-Indictment-of-Uighur-Academic

US 'Concerned' Over Indictment of Uighur Academic - Japan Herald
The United States has called on China to release Uighur rights activist and economics professor Ilham Tohti, who was charged Wednesday with separatism two days after clashes in Xinjiang that caused dozens of casualties. The head of a U.S./based Uighur group said the Muslim Uighur community is rising up against China's recently-announced crackdown.
U.S. State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf Wednesday expressed concern about Ilham Tohti's indictment, as well as his detention and that of six students since January:
"We have been deeply concerned about the lack of transparency concerning his welfare and access to legal representation. We call on Chinese authorities to release Mr. Tohti and his students and to guarantee them the protections and freedoms to which they are entitled under China's international human rights commitments, including freedom of expression," said Harf.
China's state-run Global Times newspaper said the former lecturer at Beijing's Central Nationalities University, detained January 15 and transferred to Xinjiang, was charged Wednesday with separatism for reportedly having close ties to the World Uighur Congress, which it said advocates the independence of Xinjiang. Police also say Tohti has connections with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which has been designated a terrorist group.
According to state media, Tohti has described Muslim Uighur protesters as heroes and instigated students to hate China and its government. He is said to have been arrested several times for spreading rumors.
Michael Clarke, senior research fellow at Australia's Griffith Asia Institute, said while he expected Tohti to be indicted, he is surprised his trial will be heard in the Intermediate People's Court in Urumqi.
"In most cases, particularly high-profile cases like this, a conviction is pretty much a guarantee here and the problem with that is the charge of separatism, or inciting separatism, can technically carry the death penalty under Chinese law," explained Clarke. "Whether or not that will be the case in this circumstance, obviously, is unclear at the present."
Clarke said Tohti has never engaged in any activity that might be defined as separatism or inciting separatism. "In fact, in his position as a professor of economics in Beijing, he was quite a moderate spokesman for Uighur autonomy and a reasonably moderate critic of the government's approach to Xinjiang more broadly. The government, however, has charged him with a variety of things, and they've also accused him of using his position as a professor, and I'm quoting the official story here, to make rumors, distort and hype up stories to create conflicts, spread separatist thinking, incite ethnic hatred, advocate Xinjiang independence and conduct separatist activities," he said.
Alim Seytoff, president of the Uighur American Association, said the timing of the indictment may be a way that Chinese authorities can deflect attention away from the latest violence in the restive western autonomous region that borders Central Asia. Seytoff said Tohti has been detained incommunicado (unable to communicate) for six months.
"And, he was even chained by the Chinese prison authorities and he was denied food for 10 days. So, he was abused and mistreated by the Chinese authorities," Seytoff stated.
Seytoff said Tohti had operated a website aimed at reconciling the Uighur and Chinese peoples and sought to change China's policy of, what Seytoff calls, heavy-handed repression in Xinjiang.
On a visit to Xinjiang in April, President Xi Jinping called for "decisive actions" to "resolutely repress the terrorists' rampant momentum."
Tuesday, China reported that dozens of civilians had been killed or wounded in what it calls a terrorist attack Monday in Xinjiang's Kashgar Prefecture. It said a gang armed with knives attacked a police station and government offices, as well as civilians, and smashed vehicles. It said police responded by shooting dozens of members of the mob. It said its initial investigation concluded it was a premeditated terror attack.
Seytoff said the police action is part of China's year-long anti-terror campaign initiated by President Xi.
"The Chinese government restricted the fasting during the holy [Muslim] month of Ramadan, which is one of the five pillars of Islam. Instead, the Chinese security forces went house-to-house searching Uighurs who were fasting, harassing them at night, locking up Uighurs who prayed, and even killed a family of Uighurs," he said. "As a result of this mass grievance and anger toward Chinese security forces, especially extra-judicial use of force, they took to the streets to protest against brutality."
Seytoff said this is a reflection of what he called Uighur "collective discontent" and said both peaceful and violent actions are happening throughout the Uighur community. He acknowledged he is fearful of another crackdown similar to what occurred in July, 2009, when some 200 people were killed in the regional capital, Urumqi.
In May, at least 31 people were killed when two cars crashed through an Urumqi market and explosives were thrown. In March, a mass stabbing at a Kunming train station blamed on Muslim extremists wielding knives killed 29 people. In all, nearly 200 people have been killed in ongoing violence tied to the Uighur community in China this year.
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Forty percent of India's population may not have drinking water by 2030, if the water crisis in country is not met seriously, a study has warned.
With the country facing a grave water crisis and lack of water conservation, the availability of potable water and ground water has decreased over the years which would result in severe situation in the country after a decade, said an activist for water conservation on the eve of World Water Day (March 22) observed to create awareness about water related issues and for action to deal with the global water crisis.
"By 2030, 40 percent of the total population in the country will not have drinking water if situation remains same," Jal Jan Jodo Abhiyan's national convenor Sanjay Singh told IANS, quoting a research published recently by the 2030 Water Resource Group (WRG).
"The ground water is depleting, the small tributaries have dried up to 90 percent and the flow of rivers has reduced by 60-65 percent. This will lead to a severe situation in the coming years reducing water availability to a great extent," he added.
He also said that the per capita demand has increased whereas the availability is very less. In fact, a report on ground water published by PRS Legislative Research --a non-governmental organisation -- says: "Due to increasing population, the national per capita annual availability of water has reduced by 15 percent from 2001 to 2011."
It also said that India uses almost twice the amount of water to grow crops as compared to China and the US.
"The gap between the availability and demand is increasing at a greater pace. Cities like Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai and other metropolitan cities consume water in huge quantities due to changed lifestyle of people. This must be looked into," Singh told IANS.
He also said that the efforts done by the government were not enough to meet the crisis.
South Asia Network on Dam, Rivers and People coordinator Himanshu Thakkar says water crisis in the country is multidimensional and is aggravating fast because of various factors including mismanagement of the resource.
He anticipates big problems based on the water crisis looming large in the country, if the situation continues.
"Ground water is the lifeline of the country which is depleting very fast. Water is part of ecological system as every living thing on earth needs water so if not dealt with properly the perennial water crisis may lead to more serious problems like food crisis, livelihood crisis, social conflicts," Thakkar told IANS.
He said that social conflicts based on water crisis have already started in the country. Tension between Haryana and Punjab over Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal project and conflicts in Marathwada region of Maharashtra over water are the latest examples.
"In terms of water crisis in India things have now come to such a pass that a district collector in Latur district in Maharashtra had to implement section 144 to avoid clashes between people due to water crisis," Thakkar told IANS.
Blaming the government in general being the major contributor towards the crisis, Thakkar said the government machinery was solely responsible for failing in water management.
"Government is responsible for water crisis in terms of mismanagement. The government does not involve people in the management of water. This year is a drought year so the problem has increased manifold but the efforts of the government does not seem sufficient to deal with the crisis," he said.
About the water crisis in Delhi, he said that mismanagement on part of governments can be seen easily as in February, Jat protesters took over Munak canal in Haryana stopping water supply to the national capital and it took over a fortnight to deal with the consequences.
Ruwa Shah can be contacted at ruwa.s@ians.in and Ashish Mishra can be contacted at ashish.m@ians.in)

Singapore / Tokyo, Mar.21 (ANI): Subway is the most important transport system in Singapore with ...
Amposta - Thirteen people were killed and 44 injured on Sunday when a bus carrying ...
Monday, 21 March -- The Director-General, Irina Bokova, inaugurated the new premises of the Division ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Raghuram Rajan said on ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Forty percent of India's population may not have drinking water ...
Get the latest Japan Herald headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Japan Herald - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved