2014-07~09
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang:-Muslim-students-forced-to-eat-during-Ramadan-31606.html

CHINA Xinjiang: Muslim students forced to eat during Ramadan
Beijing (AsiaNews) - Teachers in Xinjiang are
forcing many Muslim students to
eat during the month of Ramadan. If they
refuse, they are threatened with expulsion or lost career
opportunities.
A month ago,
the central government issued directives to stop Muslim government employees and young people under the age of 18 from
fasting.
Several days later, even universities like the one in
Kashgar did the same. Students are forced
to eat in front of their teachers
and those who refuse are expelled or denied their diplomas.
Ramadan is one of the five pillars of Islam; it involves not eating or drinking from dawn to dusk.
According to students, the university administration
hands out water bottles and food during the day, noting which students refuse to take
them.
At the same time, the authorities have ordered restaurants
to close during the
evenings, threatening fines for those who do not obey.
Many students
try to fast in secret:
they take food and water, but keep them until the
evening.
The government
campaign against Ramadan is part of a broader campaign
against what it considers "violent terrorist acts"
by minority Muslim Uygur.
In recent months, attacks have occurred in a market in
Urumqi, a train station in
Kunming, and in Tiananmen Square, all blamed on Uyghur nationalism.
The Turkic
minority has responded saying that they only want greater
autonomy and a share their homeland's wealth, which are being grabbed instead by ethnic Han Chinese settlers.
In its fight
against terrorism, Beijing is depriving
Uygur pf their freedom of religion and culture.
Two days ago, a court in Xinjiang sentenced three people to
life imprisonment and 29 to
terms ranging between 4 to 15 years
in prison for posting "religious extremist
violent terror video" online, and participating in "terrorist organisations".
Dilxat Raxit, spokesman
for the exiled group the World Uygur Congress, said that the sentences show that
China is afraid Uygurs would use the internet to break authorities' monopoly on
information.
"China's accusations
are a political excuse to suppress the rights of Uygur to use the internet," he
said.
AsiaNews spoke to Josephine, one of hundreds of Christians from Al-Hasakah, who spent a year in the hands of the Islamic State group. She talked about psychological suffering, conversion attempts, and separation from her male relatives. She survived thanks to her faith. Her mother Caroline, a Caritas official, is the only one in her family to have been spared the ordeal. She also negotiated their release with IS, and gave a Jihadi copies of the Bible. Now she hopes “to meet the pope” with her entire family.
Sister Rani Maria was killed in 1995, stabbed 54 times. The murderer was a radical Hindu, incited by village leaders, who wanted to stop the nun's activities in favor of tribal poor. The path "that led me to forgive Samunder Singh has not been easy, but now he's my brother." Instead, "my mother said once: 'I would kiss his hands, because on them there is the blood of my daughter'." The exchange of the Indian bracelet that celebrates love between siblings; the moment of encounter with the victim's mother.

 
2003 © All rights reserved - AsiaNews C.F. e P.Iva: 00889190153 - GLACOM®
Copyright ÂŠ 2003 AsiaNews C.F. 00889190153 All rights reserved. Content on this site is made available for personal, non-commercial use only. You may not reproduce, republish, sell or otherwise distribute the content or any modified or altered versions of it without the express written permission of the editor. Photos on AsiaNews.it are largely taken from the internet and thus considered to be in the public domain. Anyone contrary to their publication need only contact the editorial office which will immediately proceed to remove the photos.