2014-07~09
http://www.memphissun.com/index.php/sid/224358097/scat/b8de8e630faf3631/ht/Nine-terror-suspects-killed-in-restive-Xinjiang

Nine 'terror suspects' killed in restive Xinjiang - Memphis Sun
• It is battling friction between Han Chinese and Uyghurs
• The region has seen deadly violence in recent times
BEIJING, China - At least nine suspected militants were killed and one captured in China's restive Xinjiang region Friday, according to an official media report.
Citing police, Xinhua news agency said that the shooting took place in Hotan prefecture in the southern part of the vast region beset with a low intensity Islamist insurgency.
Xinhua described the dead and the lone captured person as "terror suspects". However, there were no other details available on who the suspects were or what they were accused of doing.
Chinese authorities and the media usually use terms like "terror gang" to describe Islamist militants or separatists.
The news agency said as the incident occurred in a rural area in Xinjiang's far south when some 30,000 civilians involved in a counter-terror operation with police saw "signs" of a terror gang in a corn field.
"Police and the 30,000 civilians in unison surrounded the terror gang, and forced them into an abandoned house," the Xinhua report said.
Explosive devices were thrown at both the police and civilians, and the police "took decisive action" and shot dead the attackers, the report said.
Xinhua said that the operation began Sunday when some people tipped off the police about the presence of the gang members in the area.
The incident comes four days after a violent attack in Shache county that left dozens killed and injured. More than 20 ethnic Uyghurss were shot dead by armed authorities while 10 were injured, according to Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the exile World Uyghur Congress.
A total of 13 Chinese security personnel were killed and injured and about 67 people were arrested, Raxit said.
On Wednesday, Jume Tahir, a government-appointed head of the largest mosque in China, was murdered after leading morning prayers.
Tahir was killed in the city of Kashgar by "three thugs influenced by religious extremist ideology", according to the Xinjiang government web portal Tianshan.
Xinjiang is home to the Muslim Uyghurs people, who speak a Turkic language. It has for years witnessed violence blamed on Islamist militants or separatists who it says want an independent state called East Turkestan.
The region is now home to more than eight million Han Chinese, up from 220,000 in 1949, and 10 million Uyghurs. Unemployment among Uyghurs is high, and they complain of discrimination and harsh treatment by security forces, according to the CNN.
Exiled Uyghurs groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest - a claim Beijing denies.
Chinese authorities have intensified security measures in Xinjiang after several recent attacks in the region, which has been the scene of ethnic strife between Uyghurs and Han Chinese.
Earlier this week, a gang wielding knives and axes killed and injured dozens of people in southern Xinjiang.
A suicide bombing in May killed 39 people at a street market in the region's capital, Urumqi. Another apparent suicide bombing left three dead in April at an Urumqi train station.
Waves of Han Chinese have flocked to the resource-rich region, fueling tensions with the Uyghurs, who regard themselves as culturally and ethnically closer the people of nations bordering western China, such as Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Pakistan and Afghanistan, according to the CNN.
New York, March 21 (IANS) Police in the US state of Tennessee have launched an investigation into a controversial Facebook photograph showing two young children with their hands and mouths bound and covered with duct tape, a media report said.
Published under a caption that read, "Kids for Sale 45 percent Off because they bad," the photo was sent to police by "a few sources" on Thursday, NBCNews.com reported on Sunday.
The photo was published on the now-deleted profile of a Facebook user last week.
A man believed to be a cousin of the Facebook user described the photo as "basically a joke" in a post on the social media site on Friday.
"I don't really (too) much care about the people they have opinions," the post read.
"Our family and friends know the love we have for all the kids in our family it's just crazy that out of a whole lifetime they judge a person off of this one event. Basically a joke at the moment that people just went overboard about. People make mistakes and that's what this situation is, a lesson learned. They are safe, unharmed, and loved that's all it is to it," he said.

New York, March 21 (IANS) Police in the US state of Tennessee have launched an ...
What happened <br>After a closely played first half between Syracuse and Middle Tennessee, the Orange ...
<br>Tennessee head coach Holly Warlick yells to her team during the first half of a ...
FLORENCE, Ala. – A coroner in Alabama says the second body of a missing fisherman ...
Get the latest Memphis Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Memphis Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved