2014-07~09
http://www.floridastatesman.com/index.php/sid/224299255

US 'Concerned' Over Indictment of Uighur Academic - Florida Statesman
The United States has called on China to release Uighur rights activist and economics professor Ilham Tohti, who was charged Wednesday with separatism two days after clashes in Xinjiang that caused dozens of casualties. The head of a U.S./based Uighur group said the Muslim Uighur community is rising up against China's recently-announced crackdown.
U.S. State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf Wednesday expressed concern about Ilham Tohti's indictment, as well as his detention and that of six students since January:
"We have been deeply concerned about the lack of transparency concerning his welfare and access to legal representation. We call on Chinese authorities to release Mr. Tohti and his students and to guarantee them the protections and freedoms to which they are entitled under China's international human rights commitments, including freedom of expression," said Harf.
China's state-run Global Times newspaper said the former lecturer at Beijing's Central Nationalities University, detained January 15 and transferred to Xinjiang, was charged Wednesday with separatism for reportedly having close ties to the World Uighur Congress, which it said advocates the independence of Xinjiang. Police also say Tohti has connections with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which has been designated a terrorist group.
According to state media, Tohti has described Muslim Uighur protesters as heroes and instigated students to hate China and its government. He is said to have been arrested several times for spreading rumors.
Michael Clarke, senior research fellow at Australia's Griffith Asia Institute, said while he expected Tohti to be indicted, he is surprised his trial will be heard in the Intermediate People's Court in Urumqi.
"In most cases, particularly high-profile cases like this, a conviction is pretty much a guarantee here and the problem with that is the charge of separatism, or inciting separatism, can technically carry the death penalty under Chinese law," explained Clarke. "Whether or not that will be the case in this circumstance, obviously, is unclear at the present."
Clarke said Tohti has never engaged in any activity that might be defined as separatism or inciting separatism. "In fact, in his position as a professor of economics in Beijing, he was quite a moderate spokesman for Uighur autonomy and a reasonably moderate critic of the government's approach to Xinjiang more broadly. The government, however, has charged him with a variety of things, and they've also accused him of using his position as a professor, and I'm quoting the official story here, to make rumors, distort and hype up stories to create conflicts, spread separatist thinking, incite ethnic hatred, advocate Xinjiang independence and conduct separatist activities," he said.
Alim Seytoff, president of the Uighur American Association, said the timing of the indictment may be a way that Chinese authorities can deflect attention away from the latest violence in the restive western autonomous region that borders Central Asia. Seytoff said Tohti has been detained incommunicado (unable to communicate) for six months.
"And, he was even chained by the Chinese prison authorities and he was denied food for 10 days. So, he was abused and mistreated by the Chinese authorities," Seytoff stated.
Seytoff said Tohti had operated a website aimed at reconciling the Uighur and Chinese peoples and sought to change China's policy of, what Seytoff calls, heavy-handed repression in Xinjiang.
On a visit to Xinjiang in April, President Xi Jinping called for "decisive actions" to "resolutely repress the terrorists' rampant momentum."
Tuesday, China reported that dozens of civilians had been killed or wounded in what it calls a terrorist attack Monday in Xinjiang's Kashgar Prefecture. It said a gang armed with knives attacked a police station and government offices, as well as civilians, and smashed vehicles. It said police responded by shooting dozens of members of the mob. It said its initial investigation concluded it was a premeditated terror attack.
Seytoff said the police action is part of China's year-long anti-terror campaign initiated by President Xi.
"The Chinese government restricted the fasting during the holy [Muslim] month of Ramadan, which is one of the five pillars of Islam. Instead, the Chinese security forces went house-to-house searching Uighurs who were fasting, harassing them at night, locking up Uighurs who prayed, and even killed a family of Uighurs," he said. "As a result of this mass grievance and anger toward Chinese security forces, especially extra-judicial use of force, they took to the streets to protest against brutality."
Seytoff said this is a reflection of what he called Uighur "collective discontent" and said both peaceful and violent actions are happening throughout the Uighur community. He acknowledged he is fearful of another crackdown similar to what occurred in July, 2009, when some 200 people were killed in the regional capital, Urumqi.
In May, at least 31 people were killed when two cars crashed through an Urumqi market and explosives were thrown. In March, a mass stabbing at a Kunming train station blamed on Muslim extremists wielding knives killed 29 people. In all, nearly 200 people have been killed in ongoing violence tied to the Uighur community in China this year.
Cape Town - On 21 March, South Africans officially celebrate Human Rights Day, declared a public holiday in 1994 following the inauguration of former president Nelson Mandela.
While it pays tribute to the tragic events of the Sharpeville massacre, it is also a celebration of South Africa's constitution, which gives equal rights to all.
Human Rights Day is but one of the many bricks in SA's road to democracy. Here are a few things about our complex past that happened on this day, that you might not know...
1. The Sharpeville massacre took place on Monday, 21 March in 1960 as police opened fire on about 5 000 people who had come to the Sharpeville station to protest pass laws.
2. Some 69 unarmed people were killed and another 180 were injured.
3. The pass law was also humiliatingly referred to as the dom pass and was a particular indignation for black men who had to produce it on demand and could be arrested and detained on the spot if they did not have it on them.
4. It is believed the movement was initiated by the newly-elected Pan Africanist Congress leader Robert Sobukwe at the time, who called for the stand against the pass law. Sobukwe, a34-year-old lecturer in African languages at Wits University at the time was leading a march to the Orlando police station when they heard of the massacre at Sharpeville.
5. Also referred to as Heroes' Day, the event marked an awakening across the world to the inhumanity of the apartheid regime, however it also meant the start of the end for peaceful protests against apartheid in South Africa as a few days later on 8 April 1960, the Nationalist Party government, under the premiership of apartheid architect Hendrik Verwoerd, banned the PAC and ANC.
6. Following international sanctions and many years of struggle, with Sobukwe having been detained on Robben Island, released and then banished to Kimberley where he died of cancer reportedly in1970 - the pass law was only revoked in 1986 by then apartheid leader PW Botha.
7. SA's Human Rights Day on 21 March is also the United Nations International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination.
8. In stark contrast to the pass law, South Africa's constitution protects individual rights for equality; human dignity; life; freedom and security; privacy; freedom of religion, belief and opinion; freedom of expression; freedom of association and a right to education - see SA's full Bill of Rights here.
- 10 Places you need to visit to call yourself an Mzansi kid
Washington D.C., Mar. 21 (ANI): U.S. President Barack Obama arrived in Cuba on Sunday, demonstrating ...
Cape Town - On 21 March, South Africans officially celebrate Human Rights Day, declared a ...
Florida Lt. Gov. Carlos Lopez-Cantera joined over 200 demonstrators in Miami’s Little Havana on Sunday ...
Cuban National team, it will only be 321 miles away from home. But it through ...
has near a lifetime's worth of political experience in the Tampa Bay area. A congressman, ...
Get the latest Florida Statesman headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Florida Statesman - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved