2014-07~09
http://www.wkrb13.com/world/344119/attack-xinjiang-china-kills-32/

Attack in Xinjiang, China Kills 32 - WKRB News

 Posted by David on Jul 30th, 2014 // No Comments
As many as 32 people have been killed with several more wounded in a major terror attack carried out by a mob armed with axes and knives in the volatile northwest China province of Xinjiang. The attack come on the eve of Eid and is the latest violence in China blamed on radical Islamist militants.
Police killed 22 attackers while arresting 41 more, when a police station and government office was attacked by Uygur militants in the township of Elixku on Monday.
Ten civilians were confirmed killed in the incident, said the report, adding that the preliminary investigation showed the attack had been premeditated.
Xinhua the state news agency in China reported on Tuesday night that dozens were killed or wounded during the attack in the province. The agency report did not provide the details of the attack or cite reasons for why the reporting of the attack had been delayed.
After attacking the township of Elixku, some of the attackers moved on to Huangdi Township and attacked civilians there, while smashing vehicles, said Xinhua.
The report said the Islamist militants hijacked a passenger bus to Kashgar in order to distract the police, which kept the police busy while in other places the group was attacking.
Several violent attacks have taken place in the area over the last few years.
However, the version said to be official, was disputed on Wednesday by the Uygur American Association based in the U.S.
The group said local sources had told them that police killed protesters in a heavy-handed crackdown during Ramadan.
The attack occurred at the end of Ramadan the holy month, which authorities attempted to get the Muslims in the province of Xinjiang to ignore, of which rights groups have said appears as discrimination against Uygurs.
China has accused an East Turkestan Islamic Movement linked to al-Qaeda for the recent attacks.
In June, police shot and killed 13 who had attacked a Yecheng County police station that is near Kashgar.
Kashgar is Xinjiang’s largest city, and China’s western most city. It is located near the border of Kyrgzstan, Tajikistan and Kashmir.
This story was originally published by WKRB News (http://www.wkrb13.com) and is the sole property of WKRB News. If you are reading this article on another website, that means this article was illegally copied and re-published to this website in violation of U.S. and International copyright law. You can view the original version of this story at http://www.wkrb13.com/world/344119/attack-xinjiang-china-kills-32/