2014-07~09
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/11042528/China-plans-to-fight-terror-with-dozens-of-new-cities.html

China plans to fight terror with ‘dozens’ of new cities - Telegraph
Dozens of new cities and towns will be built from scratch in China’s remote and restive far west as part of the country’s intensifying “people’s war” on terror, according to reports in the state media.
Hundreds of people have been arrested and tried in recent months following a series of deadly attacks on Chinese civilians in major cities including Beijing, Kunming and Urumqi, the capital of the western province of Xinjiang. In the most recent explosion of violence, police said they gunned down 59 alleged terrorists who slaughtered 37 people during an assault on civilians and government installations in late July.
Beijing has blamed the attacks on Islamic extremists from Xinjiang, a predominantly Muslim region that is home to the Uighur ethnic minority. Armed police have been deployed across the country since the official anti-terror crackdown was launched in May and in some cities civilians have been invited to join anti-terror “red guard” units.
Now, Chinese authorities are calling on urban planners to join their war on terror.
“Urbanisation serves as a fundamental solution to tackle poverty, unemployment and inequality in less-developed southern Xinjiang where religious conservatism is prevalent and terrorist attacks occur more frequently,” the state-run Global Times newspaper reported.

Beijing assembles people's army to crush China terrorists with an iron fist


China shuts bomb factories as 'people's war' on terror begins


China terror attack leaves dozens killed after bombs thrown into busy market


Survivors recount scenes of terror dubbed 'China's 9/11' by state media

“Measures such as creating jobs and improving education are seen as fundamental solutions to addressing the threat of terrorism.”
Many of the new cities and towns will reportedly be built by the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps or XPCC - a state-run paramilitary organisation that controls large swathes of the western region, a sizeable agricultural empire and even its own university, courts and police force.
During a visit to Xinjiang in April, president Xi Jinping called on the group – which was founded in 1954 under Chairman Mao and is better known as the “bingtuan” – to act as a “stabiliser of the country’s border areas”.
The bingtuan has built seven cites since its foundation, three of which are in southern Xinjiang. Xu Weihua, the group’s deputy political commissar, said the new cities would help both “maintain social stability and boost local development”.
“Building cities and townships there is an urgent task and our priority, as the XPCC can use its economic and cultural advantages to help local people enjoy a modern and civilized social life,” he said.
The cities could help promote “modern culture”, Wang Dahao, a Xinjiang-based writer was quoted as saying.
Few precise details of the anti-terror cities have been provided. However, one will reportedly be near Hotan, a city in southern Xinjiang that has witnessed repeated outbreaks of violence including a botched axe-attack on a chess hall in June.
In July 2011, as many as 20 people were reportedly killed during what authorities claimed was an assault on a local police station.
The bingtuan’s move to build dozens of new cities fits into a “very ambitious” 20-year plan urbanisation plan unveiled by Xinjiang’s government in 2012, said James Leibold, an academic from Australia’s La Trobe University who studies China’s ethnic policies.
“Xinjiang must march onto the road of new style urbanization,” says the plan, calling for 68 per cent of inhabitants to live in cities by 2030.
Cities such as Kashgar, Korla, Karamay, Hami, Aksu and Yining will be transformed into “major poles of growth” while a number of completely new cities with more than 500,000 residents will be created.
Dr Leibold said Xi Jinping was now pushing the bingtuan to play a greater role in three key aspects of Xinjiang life: security, economics and urbanization.
The new cities were designed to turbo-charge Xinjiang’s economy. “Let’s create more money, more jobs.”
The bingtuan’s cities would also “try to integrate Uighurs more closely into Chinese society,” as a way of potentially guarding against increasing religious radicalisation and reducing ethnic violence between Uighurs and China’s Han majority. “But they don’t have a track record of being very good on this,” Dr Leibold added.
Li Wei, a counter-terrorism expert from the China Institute of Contemporary International Relations, said city building could play an “auxiliary” role in his country’s war on terror by “eliminating the roots and soil” in which terrorism had flourished.
“Urbanisation could help shrink the urban-rural divide, develop the economy and improve the living standard of less developed places,” he said.
However, the battle against “extreme thought” could not be won by focusing on living conditions alone. Urbanisation could even aggravate Xinjiang’s security situation by triggering new social conflicts related to land disputes, Prof Li warned.

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
