2014-07~09
http://www.firstpost.com/world/china-prosecuters-told-to-fast-track-trial-of-terrorists-extremists-1709551.html

China: Prosecuters told to fast-track trial of terrorists, extremists - Firstpost
#China   #Extremism   #prosecution   #Separatism   #terror attacks   #Terrorism   #Xinjiang  
Beijing: Chinese prosecutors have been asked to fast-track cases involving terrorists, religious extremists and manufacturers of firearms and explosives, the Supreme People's Procuratorate (SPP) said.
Counter-terrorism will be a priority of prosecutors as part of tough measures against the "three evil forces" - terrorism, separatism and extremism. Human trafficking cases will also be fast-tracked, Xinhua reported, citing a statement issued on Thursday after a meeting on Xinjiang issues.
The statement emphasised that these cases must be handled without discrimination and under the principle of tempering justice with mercy.
The SPP encouraged cooperation between prosecutors in Xinjiang and the rest of the country for a coordinated offensive against terrorists. They have also been urged to work with police and communities to root up supporters of terrorism.
Besides fighting terrorism, prosecutors have been instructed to protect legitimate rights and interests of people from all ethnic groups and help implement the country's religious policies.
Also on Thursday, the Supreme People's Court instructed courts in Xinjiang to speed up trials of terror cases and deliver exemplary penalties.
The number of terror cells busted in Xinjiang increased from about 140 in 2010 to more than 200 last year.
A series of terrorist attacks in Xinjiang shocked the country this year, with the latest in early August when 37 civilians were killed and 13 others injured in Shache county of Kashgar prefecture.
Obama to visit London in bid to keep UK in the EU - report | Reuters
Merkel crosses fingers before German Super Sunday regional polls | Reuters
Israel calls on world powers to punish Iran for its missile tests | Reuters
Israel calls on world powers to punish Iran for its missile tests | Reuters
'What has marriage got to do with making babies?' This woman chose to have her daughter without tying the knot