2014-07~09
http://www.neworleanssun.com/index.php/sid/226026495

US Expresses 'Deep Concern' over Uighur Scholar's Life Sentence - New Orleans Sun
WASHINGTON- The Obama Administration has expressed its "deep concern" over the life sentence handed down Tuesday against prominent Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti on separatism charges. Analysts warn China's action may only further radicalize ethnic minorities.
A White House statement described Uighur scholar IlhamTohti as a respected professor who has long championed efforts to bridge differences between China's minority Muslim Uighur community and majority Han Chinese. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry Tuesday said "peaceful dissent is not a crime," adding "the harsh sentence appears to be retribution for Professor Tohti's peaceful efforts to promote human rights for China's ethnic Uighur citizens."
The White House statement called for Tohti's release and that of seven students, who were also arrested in January, "and a guarantee of their protection and freedom to which they are entitled under China's international human rights commitments and its own constitution." It said China should "differentiate between peaceful dissent and violent extremism."
Michael Clarke of Australia's Griffith Asia Institute said such expressions of international concern may have the opposite effect of what is intended.
"Even within the statement of the verdict, there was a phrase to the effect that Mr. Tohti had, in fact, internationalized the Uighur issue by engaging with foreign journalists and so forth. So, I think statements like this from the United States will just be viewed as further proof of the effect of Mr. Tohti's advocacy for the Uighurs," said Clarke.
Prosecutors argued during last week's trial Tohti promoted separatism and encouraged violence with his lectures, articles, and frequent comments to foreign media. The 44-year-old Tohti rejected the accusations, saying he was only trying to promote dialogue and point out injustices. His lawyer said he plans to appeal the sentence.
China says it is fighting a foreign-backed insurgency in the western Xinjiang region. Uighurs complain they are the targets of religious and cultural discrimination. China, which has blamed a number of terrorist attacks on Uighurs, officially launched a one-year crackdown in May.
Uighur analyst Gardner Bovington of Indiana University called the life sentence the second-worst outcome, with the worst being the death penalty.
"I absolutely agree with Secretary Kerry it (the sentence) sends precisely the wrong signal to Uighurs, the people throughout China and the world about its attitude toward human rights, toward peaceful dissent and toward the promotion of dialogue to resolve longstanding problems," said Bovington.
The Wall Street Journal Tuesday called the sentence "shocking even for a communist regime" and warned that China's policies in Xinjiang are "self-defeating" and Tohti's imprisonment will only "further destabilize" the region. Bovington said ethnic minorities have no way to channel their discontent.
"A lot of people have suggested that Tohti's arrest cut off dialogue, and the only criticism I would make there is there never was a dialogue in the first place. Beijing has never publicly agreed that there ought to be a discourse, a dialogue about the policies it has used in regions like Xinjiang and Tibet or that it has any interlocutors who have the right to question and air dissent about those policies," said Bovington.
Bovington added that since the Uighur community is not allowed to express its dissatisfaction, things are likely only to get worse.
Paris - England, led by bullocking No 8 Billy Vunipola, confirmed their remarkable transformation from World Cup flops to Six Nations Grand Slam winners when they beat France 31-21 on Saturday.
The victory was Australian coach Eddie Jones' fifth straight win since taking over from Stuart Lancaster, the English having seen off Scotland (15-9), Italy (40-9), Ireland (21-10) and Wales (25-21).
It was England's first Grand Slam since their World Cup-winning year of 2003, when Jones was in charge of losing finalists Australia.
But it was not easy going at the Stade de France for England, who scored three tries through Danny Care, Dan Cole and Anthony Watson with Owen Farrell contributing 16 points with the boot.
A rash of ruck infringements allowed France to keep in the game through scrumhalf Maxime Machenaud, who booted seven penalties in a flawless kicking display.
Machenaud got the scoreboard rolling after Maro Itoje was pinged at a ruck, but Farrell responded immediately when France skipper Guilhem Guirado was penalised for a dangerous tackle.
France delighted a packed stadium by running the ball with intent, Scott Spedding and Virimi Vakatawa, born in South Africa and Fiji respectively, both splitting the English defence only for final passes to go amiss.
Livewire scrumhalf Care, who dictated a fast pace, showed up some lax ruck defence by stepping straight through a gap left by lumbering prop Jefferson Poirot and crossing for a well-taken try, converted by Farrell.
France suffered a blow when Francois Trinh-Duc limped off after 13 minutes to be replaced by Jules Plisson at flyhalf.
Spedding broke through again, with France finally showing their attacking muster after generally failing to fire in tight wins over Italy (23-21) and Ireland (10-9) and defeats by Wales (19-10) and Scotland (29-18).
Machenaud booted his second penalty, but England again came firing back up the pitch, prop Cole bundling over the line for a try Farrell again converted.
England, with Billy Vunipola and flanker James Haskell to the fore, denied wave after wave of home attack, Machenaud keeping France in the game with a third penalty after another ruck infringement.
It was then France's turn to defend and they did so with aplomb as Care marshalled his team from left to right, before two knock-ons undid English efforts.
Machenaud knocked over a fourth penalty to leave the score 17-12 at half-time with Farrell missing his second effort.
France opened the second period with an early charge by Vakatawa, the winger hauled down by opposite number Jack Nowell with the line abegging, Machenaud kicking a fifth penalty to bring the home side within two points.
The tit-for-tat continued as Farrell banged over his own penalty as Guirado strayed offside before Machenaud booted his sixth.
Then came Watson's try after a brilliant break by Care's replacement Ben Youngs, who put a grubber kick into the corner rather than risk a pass, the Bath winger picking up and barging through Wesley Fofana.
From the restart, England again infringed, Machenaud making no mistake from the tee.
France made a raft of changes to the front five, temporarily giving them the upper hand at the scrum, although their line-out was creaking and gifted England vital possession.
Farrell calmed nerves with his third and fourth penalties to ensure England the Grand Slam, having contrived to botch four other occasions to nab the trophy since the Five Nations became Six in 2000.
Paris - England, led by bullocking No 8 Billy Vunipola, confirmed their remarkable transformation from ...
<br>In a move that comes as no surprise, LSU forward Ben Simmons will forgo his ...
St. Tammany, Tangipahoa and Washington parishes are among the 16 additional parishes that have been ...
said the sites will help flood victims determine if they are qualified for the emergency ...
<br>High pressure will bring clear skies and cool temperatures across southeast Louisiana. The highs will ...
Get the latest New Orleans Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 New Orleans Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved