2014-07~09
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2014-09-22/multiple-explosions-in-chinas-restless-xinjiang-kill-two-injure-many-government/1370895

Multiple explosions in China's restless Xinjiang kill two, injure 'many': government | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
A series of explosions in the western Chinese province of Xinjiang has killed at least two people and injured many, according to the local government.
A brief notice about the multiple blasts in Xinjiang's Luntai county appeared on local government website Tianshan eight hours after the explosions happened.
It said the fatal blasts injured many people, and that local police responded quickly.
The Tianshan report did not say what caused the explosions, or give a precise number of injured.
Violent and often deadly attacks continue to be mounted in the western Chinese province despite intense security and an official war on terrorism.
The Chinese government fears religious extremists have infiltrated its borders from neighbouring Pakistan and Afghanistan.
It also blames an overseas separatist movement for instigating the violence in Xinjiang.
Clashes between locals and security forces in Xinjiang - home to the mostly-Muslim Uighur minority - as well as attacks targeting civilians, have killed more than 200 people in the past year.
The controversial trial of an ethnic Uighur scholar will see a verdict tomorrow.
Economist Ilham Tohti faces separatism charges and will more than likely be sent to gaol. Human rights groups say it is a way of silencing a government critic.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.