2014-07~09
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/3701/20140703/group-condemns-china-s-restriction-ramadan-fasting.htm

Group Condemns China’s Restriction from Ramadan Fasting in Xinjiang [PHOTO/VIDEO] : Culture : Chinatopix
 An exile group has denounced China’s move to ban civil servants, students and teachers from participating in the celebration of Ramadan fasting that began over the weekend.
Notices have been posted on several government websites, issuing warnings to the Muslim community, reminding them that they are not allowed to partake in any religious activity, including fasting.
"…civil servants and students cannot take part in fasting and other religious activities," commercial affairs bureau of Turfan city said in its Web site, adding, "We remind everyone that they are not permitted to observe a Ramadan fast.”
The state office managing the Tarim River included in its “reminder,” a photo of its personnel in their traditional Uighur “doppa” caps, showing them together having a group meal.
In the photo, according to Channel News Asia, is the description that said, Although the meal coincided with the Muslim festival of Ramadan, the cadres who took part expressed a positive attitude and will lead the non-fasting.”
Some offices made the call not only to their current employees but also to the former ones who had served their office.
Emphasizing that the directives are coming "in accordance with instructions from higher authorities", the weather bureau in Qaraqash country in western Xinjiang said in its Web site the “calls on all current and retired staff not to fast during Ramadan.”
The pronouncements made by several government offices in China have been met with fury by various interest groups, including exiled World Uyghur Congress. The group’s spokesman, Dilxat Raxit revealed the different ways the Chinese officials ensure that the Muslim community heeds to the government’s call.
These include giving Uighurs free meals and inspecting homes to determine whether or not fasting was being observed.
"China taking these kind of coercive measures, restricting the faith of Uighurs, will create more conflict," Raxit was quoted as saying by Channel News Asia.
"We call on China to ensure religious freedom for Uighurs and stop political repression of Ramadan."
Xinjiang is a region in China with the largest members of Muslim community and it has served as home to the Uighur minority for years. But according to Channel News Asia, China’s ruling Communist party has been restrictive of fasting for years, attributing its policy to its non-religious beliefs. The Web site described the ruling party as “officially atheist.”
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent rumors have emerged that Sacramento Kings All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins could finally move to the Los Angeles Lakers in the summer following his recent comments about the Hollywood squad’s young players after the two team’s recent game. read more