2014-07~09
http://www.dailypioneer.com/columnists/edit/larger-gameplan-of-the-sunni-islamists.html

Larger gameplan of the Sunni Islamists

It would be fatal to take the developments in Iraq and the ISIS move to declare an Islamic state there as a mere localised phenomenon. The militant outfit's leader has India, besides others, on his radar

 The global community, including Indians, would be asking for serious trouble if it continues to ignore the seriousness of developments in Iraq where the jihadis occupying considerable territory from Syria to Iraq have declared an Islamist Caliphate adhering strictly to their interpretation of Islamic law.

 The declaration has to be seen in the context of what looks like rapid disappearance of any effective opposition to the Sunni jihadi take-over of over half of Shia-majority areas of that state. How fast that is happening could also be seen from the changing scene almost hour to hour in Iraq where the Army seems to be disintegrating instead of gathering its wits to fight the jihadists.

 Today’s top news is that the 46 Indian nurses trapped in Tikrit, that were firmly in the hands of the Sunni rebels, have returned to India. But the fate of over 50 Indian workers kidnapped earlier  by the rebels is still uncertain. The entire operation resulting in the release of 46 Indian nurses, surely is a feather in the Narendra Modi Government’s cap. It’s nothing short of a diplomatic coup.

 But scanning the reports from across the world, there does not seem to be any seriousness or urgency among members of the global community to react to the developments in Iraq. The US, the only power that could effectively intervene to stop the militant tide that is knocking near the doors of Baghdad, is still considering its options.

 Some Governments are hoping that the ISIS blitz would be stopped once it reached the Shia-dominated areas. A modicum of hope is being expressed in world capitals after the Iraqi Army has engaged the rebels at Tikrit.

 Latest reports, however, say that the ISIS has called on its sleeper cells in and near Baghdad to get into stride for the final assault on Baghdad. For the Indians trapped in Iraq conflict, this development means New Delhi will not have any great hope left in the Nouri-al-Maliki Government at all. Besides, if Baghdad airport comes under attack, any airlifting of the trapped Indians would be even more difficult.

 The earlier view that the rebellion under ISIS is a movement confined to Syria-Iraq area and also as an outgrowth of the larger Al Qaeda challenge of Islamists has now been laid to rest. The core issue was highlighted when the movement declared it had established Umma and has installed the movement’s leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi as the Calipha of the new dispensation.

 That move is the appeal of the ISIS to the entire Sunni Muslim population across the world. The emotional resonance this will create among the people irrespective of national borders, should not be under-estimated.

 The entire anti-Western, anti-modernism movement in Arab Islam that began with the rise of Wahhabi interpretation of Islam in Saudi Arabia, and later the Salafi interpretation in Egypt, has stressed the political core of the faith. As an analyst put it: “Islamism, defined broadly, is an ideological construct based on a political reading of Islam in both its history and textuality. It argues that the primary duty of a Muslim is to strive for the establishment of an Islamic state without which Islam will remain a house half built.”

 Both Wahhabi and Salafi interpretations stress on the purity of the socio-political structure as stated in the major texts of the religion. Al Qaeda ideology as developed by the Egyptian ideologue Ayman al-Zawahari and then refined into a violent weapon against all trappings of modernity by Osama bin Laden, equally opposed Arab and other Muslim regimes that sought to create a modern Islamic nation with secular education, flourishing businesses, citizen rights like equality and women’s education.

 That explains why the Pakistani militants oppose the Government in Islamabad and periodically train their suicide bombers at the establishments of that Government. Also it explains why these militants are so deeply committed against girls going to school or getting educated in modern subjects.

 Though it was supposed by many Western experts that with the elimination of Osama bin Laden, the Al Qaeda would weaken and die a natural death, the Taliban has re-emerged in Pakistan and Afghanistan. Muslim Brotherhood, the main political movement for Islamists,is in control of the Government in Libya and had captured authority in Egypt for sometime till the Army there got it vacated and sent Brotherhood activists and leaders to prison.

 The Islamists have infiltrated and captured the movement in Syria that began as an opposition to the dictatorship of the Alawite family of Bashar al-Assad. There has been a recrudescence of the Taliban in Pakistan and Afghanistan. The sudden surge of Sunni militancy in Iraq and its success within four weeks should be seen in the background of the exposure of political weaknesses of Governments in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iraq. 

 It is in this situation that the Islamists have struck in Iraq and claim to have set up what they call the Islamic Umma, the ideal state beyond national boundaries for the followers of the faith.  How this move could play on the emotional chord of the common Muslims, is seen in the revelation that some Indian fighters have joined the ISIS militants in Iraq.  (One should ignore the Shia Muslims in Uttar Pradesh staging a counter-move recruiting volunteers to go to Iraq to fight the Sunni ISIS, as a publicity stunt).

 Even in the Xinjiang Province of China, the resurgence of the Islamist movement has touched the emotions of the Islamic majority among the local Uyghurs.  Chinese television channels have broadcast what is termed as a ‘confession’ of a 19-year-old Uyghur fighter who was captured by the Communist regime.

 In that confession the militant has described the Islamist movement in his locality (incidentally it borders Afghanistan and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir) as a ‘holy war’, that textually for the faithful takes them directly after death to heaven.

 Therefore, it would be fatal to take this latest move to declare an Islamic state in Iraq as a mere localised phenomenon. It is high time for the global community to recognise it as a well-planned move across national boundaries to draw the common people among Muslims into a broad movement to overthrow Governments (including more moderate Islamic Governments) and create an Islamist state from North Africa across West Asia and challenge from this position of strength Governments in non-Muslim majority areas. India too is a target; al-Baghdadi has not been reticent about his aim.

(The writer is a national vice president of the BJP)

(The accompanying visual is of fighters from the Al Qaeda-linked ISIS/ISIL during a parade in Raqqa, Syria. AP Photo/Raqqa Media Center)