2014-07~09
http://www.indiagazette.com/index.php/sid/226214535

China’s sentencing of a critic - India Gazette
Ilham Tohti, an Uighur scholar known as an advocate for the rights of Muslim Uighur people, was sentenced to life in prison last week by a court in Urumqi, the capital of the Xinjiang region in northwestern China, on charges of preaching separatism. It was an unusually severe punishment to hand down to a moderate, peaceful intellectual. It reflects Chinese authorities’ hard line on ethnic minorities who increasingly express frustration with majority Han Chinese rule. The Chinese leaders should realize that such an approach will not succeed in containing the resistance of Uighur people. ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): A delegation of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) met President Pranab Mukherjee on Monday evening to apprise him of the Uttarakhand crisis, while demanding that Chief Minister Harish Rawat should be allowed to prove his majority on March 28 as fixed by the Governor, and not before that.
Interacting with reporters outside the Rashtrapati Bhavan here, leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad accused the Centre of forcing Governor K.K. Paul to advance the session and to ask the Chief Minister prove majority before March 28. "The Governor has already set a deadline for the Uttarakhand Government to prove their majority, hence, we urged the President that the Chief Minister should be allowed to prove his majority on March 28 as fixed by the Governor, and not before that," he said.
"The Centre did not give a chance to the Congress Government in Arunachal Pradesh to prove their majority, and the same should not happen with the Uttarakhand Government," Azad added.
"We apprised the President how the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with the help of the Central Government is trying to trample democratically elected Opposition parties-ruled governments, especially Congress Governments, in various states," said Azad.
A few weeks back, he said, the Congress Government in Arunachal was brought down, and now the effort is on to overthrow the Uttarakhand Government.
"We informed the President that BJP leaders held our MLAs captive in a bus against their wishes, and produced them before Governor K.K. Paul and now forcing them to issue statements. The 26 BJP MLAs from Uttarakhand have made nine helpless Congress MLAs their captive. We are concerned about their safety," said Azad.
Earlier on Friday, rejecting the Opposition's claim that the ruling Congress Government has slipped into minority after its nine MLAs defected, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Harish Rawat said his government was in majority and if the opposition has any doubt, they should bring a no confidence motion.
However, the BJP claimed that it would stake claim for the formation of a government in the state as the Rawat government was in minority. BJP's national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya told ANI on Friday that 35 legislators - 26 BJP and nine Congress rebels - would be meeting the Uttarakhand Governor K.K. Paul at Raj Bhawan to stake claim for the formation of a government. (ANI)

Geneva 21 March 2016 (WMO) - The year 2015 made history, with shattered temperature records, ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): Taking potshot at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Congress on ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): A delegation of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) met ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): The Government of India which accords utmost importance to the ...
Get the latest India Gazette headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 India Gazette - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved