2014-07~09
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/10990727/Yoghurt-falls-victim-to-Chinas-peoples-war-on-terror.html

Yoghurt falls victim to China’s ‘people’s war’ on terror - Telegraph
It is the most unusual victim of China’s nascent “people’s war” on terror: the yoghurt.
Following a spate of deadly attacks on civilians, authorities in the western city of Urumqi have banned commuters from catching local buses while carrying pots of the fermented milk product.
Authorities did not give details of why they had deemed yoghurt a potentially risky substance.
Yang Shu, a counter-terrorism expert from Lanzhou University, said the ban was in line with civil aviation rules designed to stop attacks using liquid explosives and inflammable products.
In theory, only “thin yoghurt” - which might be used to disguise explosives or petrol – needed to be outlawed while “thick yoghurt” - which could not - could be permitted, Prof Yang said. However, with no simple way of telling which kind of yoghurt passengers were carrying, authorities had instead opted for a blanket ban.

Beijing assembles people's army to crush China terrorists with an iron fist


China terror attack leaves dozens killed after bombs thrown into busy market


Survivors recount scenes of terror dubbed 'China's 9/11' by state media

Mineral water, soft drinks and cooking oil were also placed on the blacklist alongside more obviously threatening items such as petrol and fireworks. Water dispensers have reportedly been installed at bus stops across the city for thirsty commuters.
“Some passengers, particularly the old, the frail, the sick, the disabled and the pregnant might feel uncomfortable if they fail to drink water,” one security official told Yaxin Online, a government-run news website in Xinjiang, the troubled region in China’s far west of which Urumqi is capital.
Yaxin Online said the directive came after alleged arsonists set fire to buses in the cities of Hangzhou and Guangzhou killing two people and injuring dozens.
China declared its so-called “people’s war” on terror in late May following an attack on a street market in Urumqi that claimed more than 30 lives. That incident followed a March 1 knife attack on a train station in southwest China and an assault on Beijing’s Tiananmen Square last October. All three attacks were blamed on groups of Islamic extremists from Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur minority, a group which often complain of the Communist Party’s repressive policies.
Hundreds of arrests have been made since the “anti-terror” campaign began in May and thousands of troops have been deployed onto the streets of cities in western China. Mass public sentencing rallies have also been staged in an attempt to reassure the Chinese public that action is being taken.
During a recent visit to Yining, a city near the border with Kazakhstan that has held two such rallies, The Telegraph saw security forces with rifles manning recently built fortifications. A volunteer army of anti-terror “red guards” has been recruited to provide 24-hour surveillance of the city’s streets.
The “people’s war” has also thrown up more surprising security tactics, including bans on matches.
In mid-July, the city of Fukang said it had torched 20,223 boxes of matches to prevent them being used by "terrorist groups or individual extremists to carry out criminal activities,” reported the People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s flagship newspaper.
Police in Kashgar, a city in southern Xinjiang, recently said they had destroyed almost 100,000 matchboxes for the same reason.
Under a species of matchbox “amnesty”, local smokers were given the opportunity to swap thousands of matchboxes for throwaway lighters.

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
