2014-07~09
http://gulfnews.com/opinions/editorials/china-must-wake-up-to-the-uighur-problem-1.1366437

China must wake up to the Uighur problem | GulfNews.com
The monthly women's lifestyle magazine offering real solutions for real women.
The most read magazine in the UAE. Lively, intelligent and thought-provoking.
Focused reports on events, business and lifestyle. In depth, insightful, influential.
An inspiring home interiors magazine showcasing the best interior design.
The No. 1 source for entertainment, lifestyle & fashion in the UAE.
In-depth look at issues behind the news, with sections on people, books and art.
A weekly motoring magazine packed with the latest local and global motoring news, reviews and views.
The UAE's most listened to pop music FM radio station.
Radio 2 is all about great fun and great music!
A contemporary hits radio station with a South Asian focus
Gadget soup for the techy soul. News and reviews with our own irreverent spin
The UAE's monthly magazine for men. High octane cars, gadgets, and interviews.
The UAE's first stop shop for buying and selling cars.
Give your career a boost. Find the best and latest jobs.
Digital version of today’s newspaper, exactly as it is in print.
Get your brand seen in the region's most read newspaper.
100s of offers, half price deals, 2 for 1s - and more.
Have something you want to tell us, a question, or complaint?
No Syrian should be deemed illegal when they have every legal right to seek safety for themselves and their families ...
If Beijing is serious about tackling the issue, then it must first admit its role in creating it
The deaths of a 100 people in the Xinjiang region of China last week is but another outcome of the self-destructive relationship China has cultivated with its largest minority group, the Uighurs. China may well believe that its neglect and repression of them, since it annexed Xinjiang in 1949, is its birthright — given its unblinking claim that Xinjiang is its primordial territory. But the problem with this intractability is that it is slowly but surely pushing China into a crossfire of regional power play that it may truly not be ready for. Even as it comes down with a heavy hand on the continuing episodes of violence, it needs to realise that the world is in no mood to be undertsanding about it.
China’s xenophobic zeal has worked to consistently de-legitimise the Muslim Uighurs in their own territory — with their religion, language, customs and traditions finding little space to flourish under China’s baleful glare. Their socio-economic conditions have worsened over the decades due to the influx of millions of Hans into the Xinjiang region who enjoy better economic opportunities than the Uighurs, who are endemic to the region. In perpetuating decades of discrimination against them, China has once again demonstrated its love for aggrandisement.
If it is serious about tackling the Uighur problem, China first needs to acknowledge its own role in creating it rather than calling it an act of terror. Like every country that has a minority population that calls for assimilative approaches in the interest of its well-being and political credibility, China too needs to consider the Uighurs as an integral part of its identity rather than a group of people that occupies land and benefits due to its oil and mineral wealth. Unless it takes a conciliatory route and considers a degree of autonomy for them, upholding their right to practice their religion and traditions, the Uighurs’ clamour for separatism will have made the pragmatism of autonomy irrelevant. Above all, what China needs to also realise is that while the problem may be erupting in its backyard, it is attracting support from beyond its borders. It is not a situation that leaves it with many options.
No Syrian should be deemed illegal when they have every legal right to seek safety for themse ...
Migration is a fact of history. We should learn to handle it, not pretend to stop it.
The initial overtures that Obama has made towards Cuba have already become an important part ...
GulfNews.com is the most widely read newspaper, and online site in English in the Middle East. With a daily BPA audited paid circulation of over 108,000, and an online audience of 3.5 million uniques every month, it is your go to source for information on the region. Sign up below to begin personalising your experience