2014-07~09
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/224755947

Chinese activist 'utterly destroyed' after three years of imprisonment, says Lawyer - China National News
Prominent Chinese lawyer and activist, Gao Zhisheng's counsel has reportedly said that three years of imprisonment has 'utterly destroyed' him.
Zhisheng's international lawyer, Jared Gensher, said that he was unintelligible and had lost teeth due to malnutrition after the Chinese activist was released from prison in Xinjiang province last week, reported the BBC.
The 50-year-old Chinese is a prominent human rights lawyer who has been detained several times in the past by the Chinese government for defending the rights of minorities and activists and for criticizing the ruling Communist Party of China openly.
A United States-based advocacy group, Freedom Now said in a report that Zhisheng was tortured psychologically and physically and had lost almost 20 kg in weight because of his daily ration of cabbage and a slice of bread. He was also confined to a dark, cramped cell and was denied any human contact until his release.
Zhisheng's wife, Geng He, said that her husband had been devastated by what the Chinese government had done to him and urged the authorities to allow him to seek treatment in the U.S.
The activist was nominated for the Nobel Prize for his work in 2008. (ANI)
Kunshan (China), March 21 (IANS) India were placed in a relatively easy group in the women's section but the men's team did not prove to be as lucky at the draw for the prestigious Thomas and Uber Cup Finals badminton tournament that was held here on Monday.
In the men's section -- the Thomas Cup -- the Indian team have been drawn along with 13-times winners Indonesia and strong contenders Thailand and Hong Kong China in Group B.
The women's team have been placed in Group D of the Uber Cup alongside Japan -- the runners-up in the last edition in 2014 -- Australia and Germany.
The tournament will be held here in Kunshan from May 15-22.
Meanwhile, Thomas Cup defending champions Japan and top seeds China found themselves in the same group as the draw. The two powerhouses were drawn in Group A alongside France and Mexico, ensuring that the starting stage of the finals itself should be an intensely competitive affair.
Second seeds Denmark, in Group D, were drawn along with Chinese Taipei, New Zealand and South Africa while Group C has South Korea, Malaysia, England and Germany.
In the Uber Cup competition, hosts and defending champions China will have to contend with European power Denmark in Group A. Their group-mates are Spain and Malaysia.
Group B consists of Korea, Chinese Taipei, Mauritius and USA, while Group C has Thailand, Indonesia, Bulgaria and Hong Kong China.
Sixteen teams each in the Thomas Cup and Uber Cup qualified for the final rounds based on their performance in the continental team championships and team rankings. The No.1 and No.2 seeded teams were separated in the draw by placing them at the top of Group A and Group D respectively. The other teams and corresponding group positions were then picked by the invited dignitaries.
The top two teams in each group will make it to the knockout stages. There will be another draw for the quarter-finals.

JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved