2014-07~09
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/more-violence-xinjiang-after-deadly-attack

More violence in Xinjiang after deadly attack | TODAYonline
BEIJING — Western tourists saw a body lying in a pool of blood in a major city in China’s violence-prone Xinjiang province yesterday, as security forces flooded in after the government said dozens of knife-wielding attackers were shot dead elsewhere in the region earlier in the week.
State media said a gang armed with knives first attacked a police station and government offices on Monday in the town of Elixku, in Shache county, about 200km from the old Silk Road city of Kashgar in China’s far west.
Some moved on to the nearby town of Huangdi, attacking civilians and smashing and setting fire to six vehicles, in what the official Xinhua news agency called an “organised and premeditated terrorist attack”.
“Police officers at the scene shot dead dozens of members of the mob,” the brief report said.
Xinjiang, home to many Turkic-language speaking Uighurs, has been beset by violence for years, which the government blames on Islamist militants or separatists who it says are bent on establishing an independent state called East Turkestan.
There were indications that unrest had spread by yesterday to Kashgar, a popular tourist site. A French traveller said he saw a body lying in a pool of blood outside the Id Kah Mosque in Kashgar’s old town yesterday morning, and armed police had poured into the city by afternoon.
“We heard shouting and my friend saw two people running away with knives. The police came quickly and told people not to take pictures. They checked mobile phones,” he told Reuters. He added that the reasons for the violence were unclear.
State media only reported the attacks in Shache, also known by its Uighur name of Yarkant, late on Tuesday. It is not clear why there was a delay, though China’s ruling Communist Party, which values stability above all else, has a habit of suppressing or delaying bad news. The government has yet to give a full account of what happened or a death toll.
But a World Uyghur Congress spokesman said nearly 100 people died in Monday’s violence. “Uighurs in Shache said excessive use of armed suppression led to conflict in which nearly 100 people were killed or injured,” Mr Dilxat Raxit said in an email.
The attack took place at the end of the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, which officials had tried to get Muslims in Xinjiang to ignore, in an indication of what rights groups say is discrimination targeting the Uighurs.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government’s repressive policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest, a claim Beijing denies. REUTERS