2014-07~09
http://www.nigeriasun.com/index.php/sid/226061173

China Details Accusations against Uighur Scholar Convicted of Separatism - Nigeria Sun
China is outlining what it says is evidence that led to the separatism conviction against and life imprisonment of a prominent Uighur scholar.
There has been widespread international condemnation of this week's conviction of Ilham Tohti, an economics professor who pushed for greater rights for the minority Uighurs.
The United States, European Union, and several major international human rights groups have urged China to release Tohti, who they say was a strident but peaceful critic of Beijing.
An article in the official Xinhua news agency attempted to dispel that notion Thursday, portraying the professor as an extremist who encouraged his students to commit acts of violence.
Xinhua said prosecutors presented video footage showing Tohti urging his students to fight the Chinese government, which he allegedly called a "devil to the Uighur people."
The article also quoted unnamed witnesses who said Tohti "had been behind over 100 articles advocating separatism" on his Uighur Online website, which the government shut down.
Tohti's lawyer, Li Fangping, disputed many of the pieces of alleged evidence presented by Xinhua, saying the comments were inaccurate or misinterpreted.
Li told the French news agency that he has lodged a complaint on the grounds that it is illegal to publish evidence before Tohti has had a chance to appeal.
Li also said Chinese authorities also did not allow him to access the evidence before the trial because officials said it was "too sensitive."
A Chinese official in charge of ethnic affairs, Luo Liming, insisted Thursday that Tohti's sentencing "was carried out by the judiciary based on our state laws and regulations."
The 45-year-old Tohti has for decades given lectures, written articles, and commented to foreign media about China's treatment of the mostly Muslim Uighurs in the restive region of Xinjiang.
China has severely restricted Muslim religious life and traditional culture in Xinjiang. Many Uighurs also complain of what they say is preferential treatment towards the country's Han majority, which have flooded to the region.
Xinjiang has seen a rising number of violent attacks in recent years that have killed hundreds of people. Most of the attacks were initially directed at state targets, but now also frequently target civilians.
Beijing blames foreign-backed Muslim fighters who it says are trying to form an independent state in Xinjiang. Many exiled Uighur groups say the violence is prompted by China's treatment of Uighurs.
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Two men from Africa's Cameroon and Congo have been arrested for cheating a businessman of Rs.80 lakh on the pretext of cleaning dollars painted with black ink to their original form, police said on Monday.
Kamleu Nya Alain, a 43-year-old from Cameroon, and Mwanza Nawej Yesh, a 42-year-old from Congo, were arrested on Sunday near a hotel in Civil Lines area of north Delhi.
They have been booked on charges of dishonestly receiving stolen property and cheating under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, and also under the Foreigners Act.
Police said both the accused reside in Mehrauli area of south Delhi.
"Alain came to India in May 2015 and was staying here without a valid passport and visa. Yesh has been residing in India for the last three years without a valid passport and visa," Deputy Commissioner of Police Madhur Verma said.
He said police seized two packets containing black papers, claimed to contain $1 million each, five packets of photocopies of Indian rupees in the denomination of Rs.1,000, two bottles of chemical substances used to clean the black paper and a kit, used for demonstration to clients converting the black paper to white.
The two accused, in connivance with a man named Rozer, who also hails from an African country and is absconding so far, cheated Delhi businessman Aditya Bondwal to the tune of Rs.80 lakh on the pretext of providing him $1 million 'black dollars' by cleaning and changing it to the original form.
Police said Alain and Yesh came to India on tourist visas and met Rozer.
"They all planned to cheat Indians through this black dollar fraud. Rozer met Aditya Bondwal in Delhi during the India Africa Summit 2016. Rozer won his confidence and concocted a 'black dollar' story," the officer said.
Rozer showed interest in Bondwal's business and proposed to invest $1 million.
Rozer told Bondwal that his father Marafa Hamidou Yaya, who used to be the right-hand man of Cameroon President Paul Biya, was in jail since 2012 and all his accounts were blocked. And so he did not have any legal money.
In his next meeting, Rozer told Bondwal he has got $1 million painted with black ink.
Rozer said the money could pass through customs in only in its black form, but it can be changed into its original form by cleaning.
He took Rs.30 lakh from Bondwal in the name of cleaning the black dollars, saying a costly ink and powder were required for the purpose.
He then introduced Bondwal with both Alain and Yesh, saying they were experts in cleaning black dollars, police said.
Bondwal, who is a manufacturer of construction equipment, informed police that Alain and Yesh took Rs.50 lakh more from him.
The accused were asking more money from Bondwal, saying the quality of ink and powder was not that good, and so they needed to get better quality ink and for that purpose, they needed Rs.42 lakh more, police said.

MAIDUGURI, NIGERIA - Two female suicide bombers killed at least 24 worshipers and wounded 18 ...
COTONOU, BENIN - Benin's prime minister has phoned businessman Patrice Talon to concede defeat and ...
Lagos - Four people were killed in political violence that has forced the cancellation of ...
Cotonou - Businessman Patrice Talon won the second round of Benin's presidential election on Sunday, ...
Niamey - Niger's president is running for a second five-year term on Sunday against an ...
Get the latest Nigeria Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Nigeria Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved