2014-07~09
http://www.afr.com/p/world/australia_condemns_uighur_life_sentence_4fAoekqFQ6E5twkqEqWHpM

Australia condemns Uighur life sentence | afr.com

 For full functionality of this site it is necessary to enable JavaScript.
 Here are the 
 instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.

Shanghai Australia has criticised the life sentence handed to Uighur academic Ilham Tohti after he was found guilty of “separatism" by a Chinese court, as the federal government sticks to its tougher public stance on China.
Canberra joined the US and the European Union in condemning the economic professor’s conviction and sentencing. Echoing comments from US Secretary of State John Kerry, a spokesperson for the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade said: “Australia is deeply concerned by the harsh sentence handed down to Ilham Tohti, who has consistently advocated peaceful dialogue as a means to address ethnic tensions in Xinjiang."
The spokesperson said these concerns had been “conveyed directly to the Chinese Government in Beijing and to China’s Embassy in Canberra."
Foreign Minister Julie Bishop has said Australia will stand up for its values when managing the relationship with China, in what some analysts have described as a new and more strident foreign policy approach.
The latest rebuke comes at a sensitive time as the two countries are finalising negotiations on a Free Trade Agreement, expected to be announced when Chinese President Xi Jinping visits Australia in November.
Relations have already been strained after a speech by Prime Minister Tony Abbott in July, during which he said he “admired the skill and sense of honour" of the Japanese submariners who attacked Sydney Harbour in 1942. The comments hit a nerve in China because of its troubled history with Japan.
Australia’s stand on Mr Tohti will be welcomed by human rights groups, which have called for his release and warned the harsh sentence meted out to him only risks further violence.
Mr Tohti is a prominent activist for the rights of Uighurs, a muslim, Turkic-speaking people, of which there are about 10 million living in China, most of those in the far west region of Xinjiang.
The Uighurs complain of decades of discrimination which has resulted in escalating tensions with China’s dominant Han ethnic group. In the latest outbreak of violence, Chinese authorities said 50 people were killed in Xinjiang over the weekend, after a series of bomb blasts prompted violent clashes.
Mr Tohti was detained in January after coming under increased scrutiny following his public criticism of the government’s handling of a deadly car crash at Tiananmen Square last year. Beijing said the crash last October was a terrorist attack perpetrated by Uighurs. Mr Tohti raised questions about the number of arrests and said at the time that if the government didn’t change the way it handles ethnic relations, there was a risk of more attacks.
In a report on Mr Tohti’s court case, state-run news web site Xinhua said he had encouraged separatism and had also “colluded with foreign groups and individuals in hyping incidents related to Xinjiang with the aim of making domestic issues international."
Unlimited access to business news and market insights across any device