2014-07~09
http://news.sky.com/story/1328639/china-planned-terror-attacks-on-the-rise

China: Planned 'Terror' Attacks On The Rise
We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.
Edward Schwarck, of the Royal United Services Institute, looks at why planned attacks are on the rise in China.
By Edward Schwarck, Research Fellow, Asia Studies, Royal United Services Institute
Planned attacks of the kind we saw in the Chinese city of Kunming last March, Beijing's Tiananmen Square last December, and Xinjiang's main city Urumqi last May seem to be on the rise, and are resulting in a significant number of casualties.
They are also increasingly taking place outside Xinjiang, which suggests that the perpetrators are becoming more organised, or at least more ambitious.
It is still difficult for outside observers to establish which violent incidents are being driven by spontaneous, ethnic-related grievances, and which are more politicised attacks aimed at destabilising the government or generating social panic - incidents that most people in the West would call "terrorism".
Indeed, the Chinese government generally makes no distinction between ethnic unrest and terrorism.
Coupled with the poor level of independent media access into the region, Beijing's approach makes it difficult to establish the precise cause of any given incident.
We know that there are Uighur terror groups outside Xinjiang hell bent on launching attacks there.
The Turkistan Islamic Party (TIP), a Uighur jihadi group based in northern Pakistan, produces a regular digest of extremist material such as magazines, videos and public statements.
However, it is still unclear whether they are orchestrating violence within Xinjiang, and whether they maintain operational links with militants there.
My sense is that their capacity to launch attacks is still limited, and that currently they are probably subsumed within larger terrorist groups whose priorities lie elsewhere.
Indeed, a small number of Uighur fighters have been picked up by the US and Pakistani government forces fighting in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
The clearest evidence of a link between violence in Xinjiang and the TIP came in 2011, when footage of a Uighur named Memtieli Tiliwaldi was released by the TIP showing him in one of their training camps in Pakistan.
Tiliwaldi later led an attack in July that year in Kashgar.
It is also not clear to what extent ordinary Uighurs in Xinjiang have access to extremist material.
Chinese security forces argue that young Uighurs are using the internet for this purpose.
However, we also know that Beijing has traditionally seen Islam and the practice of it as synonymous with separatism, and from their point of view, any religious material that has not been vetted by the state is dangerous and liable to be seen as "extremist".
By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.