2014-07~09
http://www.worldbulletin.net/todays-news/143075/chinas-media-accuses-uighur-teen-for-killing-of-kasghar-imam

China's media accuses Uighur teen for killing of Kasghar imam | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
Chinese police have said that an 18-year-old was the "mastermind" behind the murder of a state-backed imam in China's western Xinjiang region (East Turkestan), state media said on Monday.
In late July, three suspects attacked imam Juma Tayir, a well-known pro-government Uighur who led prayers at China's biggest mosque, in Xinjiang, according to Chinese authorities.
Two of the attackers were later shot dead by police while the third, Nurmemet Abidili, was arrested.
Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people, who speak a Turkic language, has been beset by violence for years. The government blames the violence on 'separatists' who it says want to establish an independent state called East Turkestan.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest.
The state-run China Daily newspaper, citing police, said late on Sunday Aini Aishan, 18, was "the alleged mastermind behind the murder" of the imam.
Aini Aishan had instructed Nurmemet Abidili, "showing him the terrorist videos and teaching him about religious extremism", the Xinjiang Daily reported on Monday. It cited interviews with Aini Aishan and Nurmemet Abidili.
Aini Aishan believed the imam, Juma Tayir, had "twisted the meaning of the Koran and that killing someone so influential would create a large impact", the report said.
"The goal is to kill Juma Tayir so you can go to heaven," it quoted Aini Aishan as telling two of the attackers.
Aini Aishan taught Nurmemet Abidili about "holy war" according to the Xinjiang Daily.
Hundreds of people have been killed in Xinjiang over the past year. Tayir was a controversial figure among Uighurs. In 2009, he backed the government after it quashed riots in Xinjiang's capital, Urumqi, in which nearly 200 people were killed.
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing'
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
