2014-07~09
http://www.rfa.org/english/news/uyghur/yarkand-08052014150547.html

‘At Least 2,000 Uyghurs Killed’ in Yarkand Violence: Exile Leader
An exile Uyghur leader has claimed that at least 2,000 ethnic minority Uyghurs may have been killed by Chinese security forces following riots last week in a restive county in China’s western Xinjiang region, far more than reported by the state media.Citing “evidence” from the ground, Rebiya Kadeer, president of the Germany-based World Uyghur Congress (WUC), accused the Chinese authorities of a cover up of what she called a “massacre” of Uyghurs in Yarkand (in Chinese, Shache) county in Xinjiang’s Kashgar prefecture on July 28.Chinese state media had at first said “dozens” of people were killed but revised upwards the death toll to 96 this week, saying the riots erupted after a “gang” of Uyghurs attacked a police station and government offices in Yarkand’s Elishku township and that the authorities reacted with “a resolute crackdown to eradicate terrorists.”But Kadeer told RFA’s Uyghur Service that information the WUC received from the area was “absolutely different than the accounts provided by Chinese official narrative.”“We have evidence in hand that at least 2,000 Uyghurs in the neighborhood of Elishku township have been killed by Chinese security forces on the first day [of the incident] and they ‘cleaned up’ the dead bodies on the second and third day during a curfew that was imposed,” she said. “We have recorded voice messages from the people in the neighborhood and written testimonies on exactly what had taken place in Elishku township of Yarkand county during this massacre,” she said, adding that the victims were mainly from villages No. 14, 15 and 16 in the township.“We can share these facts without releasing the source of the information as their security and safety is at risk,” said Kadeer, who has been in exile in Washington since being released from a Chinese prison in 2005.Highest death toll in Xinjiang
This separatist / traitor has ELEVEN kids and accept funds from American NED. She was jailed for tax evasion and released for medical reasons. End of story.
China doesn't put up with no ... Good on them. [This comment has been edited by RFA Editorial staff per our Terms of Use]
I want to thank comments from CCP supporters like August1, UU and others. Your 50 cent payments are in the mail. If you disagree w/ Kadeer's claims then you should have no objection to a UN or independent fact-finding investigation team going to Xinjiang and investigating all claims? The CCP controls all the news being reported out of Xinjiang, so how can you trust it when the govt controls all the information? Why does China ban foreign journalists & UN investigators from looking into the situation on the ground in the Uighur region? What does the CCP have to hide?
That ugly hag Rebiya and the WUC tried to pull of the same lies back in 2009 when Uyghur rioters massacred close to 200 non-Uyghur men, women and children. Photos of murdered babies lying next to their slashed mothers are still available in the internet for all to see. The same thing is happening here, the WUC is pulling complete lies out of its ... to whitewash the wholesale massacre of Han Chinese by Uyghur extremists.  [This comment has been edited by RFA Editorial staff per our Terms of Use]
Let Western News goes in there than. Open up the place to outside journalists. Are you afraid of the truth? You know what they say, "a picture speaks a thousand words." 
It's the same old, same old struggle for hegemony by a certain Western country using stooges, traitors, separatists, warmongers, etc.
Uyghurs "attacking with sticks" when they have been consistently using knives, machetes and falchion-type swords over and over again on so many other occasions? You know Rebiya is lying through her teeth when she makes such laughable claims such as this.


How Party Censorship Spoiled Political Debate at China's Annual Parliament



North Korean Censorship Blinds Not Just the People, But Also Their Rulers
