2014-07~09
http://news.yahoo.com/nine-terror-suspects-killed-chinas-xinjiang-xinhua-181752303.html

Nine terror suspects killed in China's Xinjiang: Xinhua - Yahoo News
The Vietnam War has been called the first televised war. Combat scenes broadcast every night and photos printed in America’s newspapers every morning helped shape the country’s perception of the conflict. Many of those images were captured by soldiers who received little credit for the risks they took -- until now. Dean Reynolds reports.


US, France warn Syrian regime ahead of new peace talks

The United States and France warned the Syrian regime on Sunday against trying to disrupt the fragile ceasefire as the warring sides prepared for fresh peace talks to end the brutal five-year conflict.
Almost five years since the conflict began, Syrian rebels say they shot down a warplane over western Syria while the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights say airstrikes hit Aleppo. Jillian Kitchener reports.


Syrians reflect on changed lives as Syria war enters sixth year

As Syria’s war enters its sixth year next week, many of the Syrians who have remained in the ravaged country or crossed the border into neighbouring Lebanon await an end to the violence, with a glimmer of hope that a landmark ceasefire and a push for peace could help resolve the conflict soon.
Syria&#39;s war enters its sixth year next week with a glimmer of hope that a landmark ceasefire and a push for peace could help resolve a conflict that has sent hundreds of thousands fleeing to Europe.VIDEOGRAPHIC
Cuban President Raul Castro honored President Barack Obama and the visiting U.S. delegation with a state dinner at Havana&#39;s Palace of the Revolution. (March 21)
A Florida jury on Monday hit Gawker Media and its founder with $25 million in punitive damages for publishing a sex tape of Hulk Hogan. One juror told reporters that watching the video posted by Gawker finally convinced her to find for Hogan. (March 21)
Man seen on video appearing to punch and kick a protester at a Donald Trump rally charged with assault.
Republican presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz made many of the same promises as rival candidate Donald Trump in a speech to pro-Israel lobbyists, but added that he would keep them. Rough Cut (no reporter narration)
Police in China's Xinjiang region shot dead nine suspected terrorists on Friday and captured one, state media said, days after one of the deadliest attacks to hit the restive area in recent months.
According to China's official Xinhua news agency, the suspects killed in Friday's showdown in Xinjiang's Hotan prefecture had been identified by police on Sunday "during the investigation of a terrorist group".
Local residents aided in tracking the suspects down, and on Friday they were discovered in a cornfield in Karakax County, the report said.
Police shot dead the nine suspects and captured one of them after chasing the group to an abandoned house, where they "resisted arrest by throwing explosives into the crowd", according to Xinhua.
There were no police or civilian casualties, the report added.
The incident comes four days after a violent attack in Shache county that left dozens killed and injured.
More than 20 ethnic Uighurs were shot dead by armed authorities while 10 were injured, according to Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the exile World Uyghur Congress.
A total of 13 Chinese security personnel were killed and injured and about 67 people were arrested, Raxit said.
In other violence, Jume Tahir, the government-appointed head of the largest mosque in China, was murdered on Wednesday after leading morning prayers.
Tahir was killed in the city of Kashgar by "three thugs influenced by religious extremist ideology", according to the Xinjiang government web portal Tianshan.
Information in Xinjiang is often difficult to verify independently and authorities and campaign groups often give competing versions of events, particularly when they involve clashes with police.
The region of Xinjiang in China's far west is home to the mostly Muslim Uighur minority, and Beijing has blamed a series of recent terror attacks on violent separatists from the vast, resource-rich area.
Such attacks have grown in scale and sophistication over the last year and have spread outside the restive region.
Among the most shocking was a May market attack in Xinjiang's capital Urumqi in which 39 people were killed, and a deadly rampage by knife-wielding assailants at a train station at Kunming in China's southwest in March, which left 29 dead.
The violence has also included a fiery vehicle crash at Tiananmen Square, Beijing's symbolic heart, in October.
Rights groups accuse China's government of cultural and religious repression they say fuels unrest in Xinjiang, which borders Central Asia.