2014-07~09
http://www.irishsun.com/index.php/sid/225804061

China Puts Prominent Uighur Scholar on Trial for Separatism - Irish Sun
A prominent Chinese academic who is critical of Beijing's treatment of the Uighur ethnic minority group has rejected the charges and evidence against him at the opening of his separatism trial.
Lawyers for Ilham Tohti, an economics professor and outspoken member of the mainly Muslim group that has long complained of persecution in the far-western Xinjiang region, told reporters after the hearing Wednesday that the testimony against their client was not trustworthy.
Speaking from the Xinjiang capital of Urumqi, where the trial is being held, lawyer Li Fangping said the evidence presented by the prosecution was inadequate.
Tohti, who has denied the separatism charges against him, faces a possible sentence of life in prison if, as expected, he is convicted. It is not clear when the trial will conclude.
Police set up a multi-block perimeter around the courthouse, blocking access for journalists and Western diplomats who tried to attend the hearing.
Raphael Droszewski with the Delegation of the European Union in Beijing was among those barred from attending the hearing.
"We are here today because we would like to attend the trial of Ilham Tohti. We have already expressed our concern over his indictment, especially because Mr. Tohti worked peacefully within Chinese laws for years, especially to promote a good relationship between minorities in China and for equal rights," said Droszewski.
A U.S. Embassy spokesman says Tohti's "arrest silenced an important Uighur voice that peacefully promoted harmony and understanding among China's ethnic groups, particularly Uighurs." The spokesman said the United States has stressed to Chinese authorities the importance of differentiating between peaceful dissent and violent extremism.
Ambassador Max Baucus is also in Xinjiang this week, leading a trade delegation to the region on a previously scheduled trip. While there, he will meet with Xinjiang officials.
FILE - Ilham Tohti, an outspoken scholar of China's Turkic Uighur ethnic minority, speaks during an interview at his home in Beijing, China. x FILE - Ilham Tohti, an outspoken scholar of China's Turkic Uighur ethnic minority, speaks during an interview at his home in Beijing, China.
Tohti was arrested in January and later accused of encouraging terrorism and advocating separatism in his lectures, articles, and comments to foreign media.
His lawyers deny Tohti has ever encouraged violence and point out that he has repeatedly rejected calls for separatism or independence in Xinjiang.
The charges against Tohti come amid China's crackdown on violent extremism in Xinjiang, where hundreds have died in about the past year.
Beijing blames the unrest on militants affiliated with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which wants to create an independent state in Xinjiang.
Many exiled Uighur groups say Beijing has exaggerated the threat and worsened the situation with its repression of Muslim religious life and favoritism toward the Han majority who have migrated to the area.
Tohti has for decades written about China's treatment of Uighurs and has been detained or harassed several times in the past because of his views.
In November, before his arrest, Tohti told VOA that plain-clothes police rammed his car, took his phone, and threatened to kill him because of his comments to the media.
His lawyers claim Tohti has also been subject to abuse while in detention, saying his feet have been shackled and that he has been kept from food for long periods of time.
At a hearing in Washington D.C. earlier this year, hosted by the Congressional Executive Commission on China, his daughter testified Chinese authorities' have persecuted her family.
"Anyone who knows my father, realizes how bold these charges are," Tohti's daughter Jewher Ilham, who is studying in the United States at Indiana University, told the audience. "My father never speaks about separatism. By arresting my father, China has driven Uighurs to understand that their justified grievances can not get any sort of hearing."
Tohti has long questioned the government's official narrative when it comes to violent attacks that authorities brand as acts of terrorism. He has consistently argued that more transparency and facts are needed to understand the motives behind the attacks China is facing.
by Muhammad Aamir SHARJAH, 21st March, 2016 (WAM) -- Shamma bint Sohail Faris AlMazrui, Minister of State for Youth Affairs, has put forward the suggestion of governmental interaction departments to enable two-way communication with the youth of the UAE.
"As a government, we face a big challenge and this is not just in the UAE but all around the world, which is getting information through social media and smart phones that poses another question for us, that is, 'what are the channels which we have to use in governmental communication to reach the youth?'. The answer to this question is important but what is more important is finding its solution. The practical solution is the two way communications, from the youth and to them," she said in her speech on the second day of the International Government Communication Forum, IGCF 2016, at the Sharjah Expo Centre.
She added, "We talk to the youth and do not listen to them, and we cannot blame the youth for not interacting with us if we do not spend the additional effort in the whole communication with them regarding the matters which are important to them. Perhaps reality soon will force us to change the names of the governmental communication departments to departments of governmental interaction and not just communication. This is the suggestion which I present today through this platform. Yes, youth wants departments of governmental interaction more than communication which is a one way path."
She thanked H.H. Dr. Sheikh Sultan bin Mohammed Al Qasimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Sharjah, for his keenness for youth and education, saying that Sharjah has one of the biggest academic complexes in the region. She said, "It is well known that education, science and knowledge enable youth, and open new horizons of the future for them. Therefore, we thank H.H. the Ruler of Sharjah for the role he played in changing their lives."
Present on the occasion were Sheikha Bodour bint Sultan Al Qasimi, Chairperson of Sharjah Investment and Development Authority, Shurooq, Sheikh Sultan bin Ahmed Al Qasimi, Chairman of Sharjah Media Centre, SMC, Mary Robinson, former President of Ireland (1990-1997) and former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (1997-2002), and Christopher Gardner, author and entrepreneur.
The Minister of State for Youth Affairs said, "Our leadership gives great attention to direct communication through all available channels within all sectors of the society, and of course under this belief is the necessity of listening to citizens and communicating with them.
"Vice President and Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, listens to everyone in society and asks for their opinions regarding matters which are important to them through different platforms.
"His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces also interacts with all sectors of society directly through his field visits. All our leaders are role models. They present to us the best example of interaction and communication with all sectors of society."
"H.H. the Ruler of Sharjah interacts with everyone and communicates with different segments of society, never hesitating to interact with them, even directly live on the radio."
She added, "At the UAE Youth Council, we are listening to the youth about matters which are important to them and we also encourage the youth in finding the best solutions for their issues. But in order to achieve this goal, we need our government speech to be two way, from the youth and to the youth.
"We need our speech and government communication to be modern, using the language of the youth. If we want to understand the youth, all of our governmental communication departments must open direct and diverse channels with them, and we have to be where they are, and communicating with them through the use of the same modern technology which they use, listening to their voices, opinions and aspirations, otherwise we would be left, in the words of H.H. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, 'Swimming against the currents'."
DONEGAL, Ireland - Several emergency response teams have gathered at the location of a tragic ...
CORK, Ireland - A man in his early 70s is said to have died on ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - Hundreds of passengers were left in the lurch after dozens of flights ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - Gardai have made another breakthrough in the probe relating to the horrific ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - A huge amount of money that was allocated by a European fund ...
Get the latest Irish Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Irish Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved