2014-07~09
http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2014-08/11/content_18288004.htm

Man in Xinjiang detained for attack rumours - China - Chinadaily.com.cn
BEIJING - Police in Northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region have detained a man for spreading Internet rumours about an attack in July that left 37 civilians dead and another 13 injured, Chinese media said on Monday.
Authorities have said 59 terrorists were gunned down by security forces in Xinjiang's Shache county and 37 civilians were killed by masked attackers on July 28, one of the worst bouts of violent attacks in the region in years.
"So-called reports that were seriously inconsistent with the facts emerged on overseas websites, which fabricated horrifying details and deliberately incited ethnic hatred," the website, Tianshan.net, reported.
It said the rumour, which included graphic depictions of extreme violence by police, had been circulated by "hostile foreign forces" and had an "evil influence".
Tianshan said police detained the suspect, a man with a Uygur name who later confessed, on Aug 6.
"I didn't care if what I was writing was real or not. I just wanted to attract people's attention and have an influence on public opinion," it quoted the man as saying.
According to earlier media reports, a gang armed with knives and axes attacked a police station and government offices in Elixku Township, and some moved onto Huangdi Township, attacking civilians and smashing vehicles as they passed.
In today's trending, beer drinking competition has contestants drinking from basins, bland watermelon leads to police case, raising money for sick child with suanlafen and heat drives monkeys to disturb residents.

 Copyright 1995 - 

 . All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form. Note: Browsers with 1024*768 or higher resolution are suggested for this site.

 License for publishing multimedia online 0108263             Registration Number: 130349       
