2014-07~09
http://www.japantoday.com/category/world/view/police-ease-tactics-in-hong-kong-protest-standoff

Police ease tactics in Hong Kong protest standoff ‹ Japan Today: Japan News and Discussion
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday.
Letters and numbers only; 5 to 50 characters. This cannot be changed later.
You will be sent an email to activate your account before you can log in.
Yes, I would like to receive news alerts from JapanToday
I agree to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
The harder they squeeze the more people will slip through their fingers. The Communist Chinese are so afraid they will push the population of Hong Kong into revolt or perceived revolt. Then the Red Army will roll and crush any Democratic movement. What will the world do? well nothing! Like in Orwell's Animal Farm there is no difference between the Humans and Pigs.
“Police cordon lines were heavily charged, by some violent protesters. So police had to use the minimum force in order to separate the distance at that moment between the protesters and also the police,” said Cheung Tak-keung, the assistant police commissioner for operations.
Really? I saw videos of students sitting in the street and some standing with hands up separated from police by barricades. Both were gassed. I guess the Hong Kong authorities have a different definition of "violent".
It shows how ugly,dirty,and criminality hands of communist China against the basic tenant of human rights. Rise and rise, for you will be free even at the cost of many sacrifices. Besides talking, what is Obama administration's resolve on this issue, another Arab spring; or China spring passing by? It won't be long for the fat cats of Beijing scream about "internal matter", regardless how messy will be. Communism is a scam that manipulates the mass for few privilege ruling classes.
If the world cared about these people, the world wouldn't continue to stay quiet.
Communist China can't be trusted to uphold to what they agreed to back in the 1980s. Communist don't believe they have to.
I call this the calm before the storm. I fear for these brave students and residence of Hong Kong.
The Communist did the same thing just before they unleashed the military on those peaceful Tiananmen Square protesters.
Human rights and Communism just don't go together. Hopefully this time the world won't just react by slapping Communist China's hand.
What in God's name does the oligarchy currently in charge in China have to do with communism?
What in God's name does the oligarchy currently in charge in China have to do with communism?
One party rule by the ChiCom Politburo is an oligarchy.
The people of Hong Kong will be squeezed and squeezed until they relent.
One wrong move by Beijing will spark the civil disobedience to violence, and the world will not allow Beijing to do that. T The world is in solidarity for democracy movement in China.
One wrong move by Beijing will spark the civil disobedience to violence, and the world will not allow Beijing to do that.
"The world" will allow Beijing to do exactly what it wishes, as long as the supply of cheap mobile phones and sports shoes continues. "The world" couldn't care less about the fate of Hong Kong while there are deals to be done and money to be made.
Second time in my lifetime seeing Chinese stand up against the CCP tyrants. These re real Chinese patriots,
not the centers dwelling on net forums parroting CCP propaganda.
The UK has already condemned the Chinese behaviour over the issue.
I'm just wondering how long before they blame a Japanese influence.
What is "true communism"? Who ever "practiced" it? Every communist government in the history of the world has been and is a tyrannical, repressive regime which will use every trick in the book to stay in power, from wholesale slaughter on down. No coincidence that there only a few communist governments left, every other one has been overthrown. The one that lasted the longest was that of the Soviet Union (74 years). China is now 65 years and counting.
True communism/socialism difficult to sustain because it depends on honestly communist/socialist leadership, over time. Something Chinese communism never had.
"Walden Two" novel by B.F. Skinner is a showcase text. As is Orwell's "Animal Farm".
Honest leaders are crippled by their honesty and can never survive versus leaders with no scruples, who will eventually supplant them.
Mao, honest? Lenin, Stalin, honest? Maybe lots of the leaders they purged were.
What is "true communism"? Who ever "practiced" it? Every communist government in the history of the world has been and is a tyrannical, repressive regime which will use every trick in the book to stay in power, from wholesale slaughter on down. No coincidence that there only a few communist governments left, every other one has been overthrown. The one that lasted the longest was that of the Soviet Union (74 years). China is now 65 years and counting.
@A Realist: Thank you very much for making my point!
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday.
GOP selected one respectable member for Convention. Not Romney, not Cruz but I missed reading this…
Posted in: Trump demands Republicans embrace him as Democrats unleash attacks
Just put up a barrier in front of the ringside seats like in (I hate to…

 Do they have ANY foreigners employed over at them agencies?


There are foreigners. And I can…
Posted in: New plan to boost tourism will highlight Japan's cultural assets
nice to dee some japanese taking some attitude. Most japanese I know keep doing stupid, embarassing…
Posted in: Flash mob marriage proposals gaining popularity in Japan
It's interesting to see how people react to things.
Some people jump on the bandwagon of…
Posted in: Thousands protest in Okinawa over alleged rape by U.S. serviceman