2014-07~09
http://www.ucanews.com/news/chinas-xinjiang-residents-told-to-fight-terror-with-a-frown/71774

China's Xinjiang residents told to fight terror with a frown ucanews.com
Communist Party officials have told residents of China’s violence-stricken west to add a new weapon to their armoury for fighting the country’s war on terror: the frown.
Inhabitants of Xinjiang, a predominantly Muslim region that is currently the setting for a major security crackdown, should use the “angry stare” as a way of intimidating terror suspects, according to official advice circulated this week on Wechat, the popular social networking service.
Xinjiang has witnessed growing inter-ethnic bloodshed over the past two years, something experts blame on both increasing religious radicalisation and frustration at Beijing’s heavy-handed policies among the region’s Uighur ethnic minority.
A recent wave of deadly attacks on civilians in other parts of China, including Beijing, has also been blamed on Islamic extremists from Xinjiang.
The escalating violence has led Beijing to declare a 'people's war on terror" and government-run newspapers are now filled with almost daily reports about anti-terror drills taking place in the region.
One such drill, in Hailiwafu village near the city of Kashgar, on the ancient Silk Road, saw officials advise locals on six “super weapons” that could be used to repel attackers.
The mostly conventional list, which was later shared on Wechat, included pitchforks, wooden clubs and spades, all of which officials said could be used to bludgeon assailants into submission.
However, the officials also urged villagers to launch “mental attacks” on their foes, foiling potential assailants by staring at them menacingly. An accompanying photograph showed villagers eyeing the camera more out of bemusement than malice.
The “stern look” technique was given four out of six stars for effectiveness, compared to the wooden club which received six out of six and was described as “a must-have for rural homes all over Xinjiang”.
Activists have warned that Beijing’s security clampdown risks further alienating the country’s Uighur population.
Full Story: China tells villagers to fight terror by frowning

 'Respect is there but devotion is less,' Filipino parishioner says

 Violent protests on Lunar New Year led to dozens of arrests, injuries

 Terrorism in the region can be combatted if the two countries fight religious extremism

 Growing fears over militancy prompts increased police presence for Semana Santa festival

 Filipinos cleanse their souls by turning Easter into a weeklong fiesta