2014-07~09
http://www.irishsun.com/index.php/sid/224299255

US 'Concerned' Over Indictment of Uighur Academic - Irish Sun
The United States has called on China to release Uighur rights activist and economics professor Ilham Tohti, who was charged Wednesday with separatism two days after clashes in Xinjiang that caused dozens of casualties. The head of a U.S./based Uighur group said the Muslim Uighur community is rising up against China's recently-announced crackdown.
U.S. State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf Wednesday expressed concern about Ilham Tohti's indictment, as well as his detention and that of six students since January:
"We have been deeply concerned about the lack of transparency concerning his welfare and access to legal representation. We call on Chinese authorities to release Mr. Tohti and his students and to guarantee them the protections and freedoms to which they are entitled under China's international human rights commitments, including freedom of expression," said Harf.
China's state-run Global Times newspaper said the former lecturer at Beijing's Central Nationalities University, detained January 15 and transferred to Xinjiang, was charged Wednesday with separatism for reportedly having close ties to the World Uighur Congress, which it said advocates the independence of Xinjiang. Police also say Tohti has connections with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which has been designated a terrorist group.
According to state media, Tohti has described Muslim Uighur protesters as heroes and instigated students to hate China and its government. He is said to have been arrested several times for spreading rumors.
Michael Clarke, senior research fellow at Australia's Griffith Asia Institute, said while he expected Tohti to be indicted, he is surprised his trial will be heard in the Intermediate People's Court in Urumqi.
"In most cases, particularly high-profile cases like this, a conviction is pretty much a guarantee here and the problem with that is the charge of separatism, or inciting separatism, can technically carry the death penalty under Chinese law," explained Clarke. "Whether or not that will be the case in this circumstance, obviously, is unclear at the present."
Clarke said Tohti has never engaged in any activity that might be defined as separatism or inciting separatism. "In fact, in his position as a professor of economics in Beijing, he was quite a moderate spokesman for Uighur autonomy and a reasonably moderate critic of the government's approach to Xinjiang more broadly. The government, however, has charged him with a variety of things, and they've also accused him of using his position as a professor, and I'm quoting the official story here, to make rumors, distort and hype up stories to create conflicts, spread separatist thinking, incite ethnic hatred, advocate Xinjiang independence and conduct separatist activities," he said.
Alim Seytoff, president of the Uighur American Association, said the timing of the indictment may be a way that Chinese authorities can deflect attention away from the latest violence in the restive western autonomous region that borders Central Asia. Seytoff said Tohti has been detained incommunicado (unable to communicate) for six months.
"And, he was even chained by the Chinese prison authorities and he was denied food for 10 days. So, he was abused and mistreated by the Chinese authorities," Seytoff stated.
Seytoff said Tohti had operated a website aimed at reconciling the Uighur and Chinese peoples and sought to change China's policy of, what Seytoff calls, heavy-handed repression in Xinjiang.
On a visit to Xinjiang in April, President Xi Jinping called for "decisive actions" to "resolutely repress the terrorists' rampant momentum."
Tuesday, China reported that dozens of civilians had been killed or wounded in what it calls a terrorist attack Monday in Xinjiang's Kashgar Prefecture. It said a gang armed with knives attacked a police station and government offices, as well as civilians, and smashed vehicles. It said police responded by shooting dozens of members of the mob. It said its initial investigation concluded it was a premeditated terror attack.
Seytoff said the police action is part of China's year-long anti-terror campaign initiated by President Xi.
"The Chinese government restricted the fasting during the holy [Muslim] month of Ramadan, which is one of the five pillars of Islam. Instead, the Chinese security forces went house-to-house searching Uighurs who were fasting, harassing them at night, locking up Uighurs who prayed, and even killed a family of Uighurs," he said. "As a result of this mass grievance and anger toward Chinese security forces, especially extra-judicial use of force, they took to the streets to protest against brutality."
Seytoff said this is a reflection of what he called Uighur "collective discontent" and said both peaceful and violent actions are happening throughout the Uighur community. He acknowledged he is fearful of another crackdown similar to what occurred in July, 2009, when some 200 people were killed in the regional capital, Urumqi.
In May, at least 31 people were killed when two cars crashed through an Urumqi market and explosives were thrown. In March, a mass stabbing at a Kunming train station blamed on Muslim extremists wielding knives killed 29 people. In all, nearly 200 people have been killed in ongoing violence tied to the Uighur community in China this year.
by Muhammad Aamir SHARJAH, 21st March, 2016 (WAM) -- Shamma bint Sohail Faris AlMazrui, Minister of State for Youth Affairs, has put forward the suggestion of governmental interaction departments to enable two-way communication with the youth of the UAE.
"As a government, we face a big challenge and this is not just in the UAE but all around the world, which is getting information through social media and smart phones that poses another question for us, that is, 'what are the channels which we have to use in governmental communication to reach the youth?'. The answer to this question is important but what is more important is finding its solution. The practical solution is the two way communications, from the youth and to them," she said in her speech on the second day of the International Government Communication Forum, IGCF 2016, at the Sharjah Expo Centre.
She added, "We talk to the youth and do not listen to them, and we cannot blame the youth for not interacting with us if we do not spend the additional effort in the whole communication with them regarding the matters which are important to them. Perhaps reality soon will force us to change the names of the governmental communication departments to departments of governmental interaction and not just communication. This is the suggestion which I present today through this platform. Yes, youth wants departments of governmental interaction more than communication which is a one way path."
She thanked H.H. Dr. Sheikh Sultan bin Mohammed Al Qasimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Sharjah, for his keenness for youth and education, saying that Sharjah has one of the biggest academic complexes in the region. She said, "It is well known that education, science and knowledge enable youth, and open new horizons of the future for them. Therefore, we thank H.H. the Ruler of Sharjah for the role he played in changing their lives."
Present on the occasion were Sheikha Bodour bint Sultan Al Qasimi, Chairperson of Sharjah Investment and Development Authority, Shurooq, Sheikh Sultan bin Ahmed Al Qasimi, Chairman of Sharjah Media Centre, SMC, Mary Robinson, former President of Ireland (1990-1997) and former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (1997-2002), and Christopher Gardner, author and entrepreneur.
The Minister of State for Youth Affairs said, "Our leadership gives great attention to direct communication through all available channels within all sectors of the society, and of course under this belief is the necessity of listening to citizens and communicating with them.
"Vice President and Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, listens to everyone in society and asks for their opinions regarding matters which are important to them through different platforms.
"His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces also interacts with all sectors of society directly through his field visits. All our leaders are role models. They present to us the best example of interaction and communication with all sectors of society."
"H.H. the Ruler of Sharjah interacts with everyone and communicates with different segments of society, never hesitating to interact with them, even directly live on the radio."
She added, "At the UAE Youth Council, we are listening to the youth about matters which are important to them and we also encourage the youth in finding the best solutions for their issues. But in order to achieve this goal, we need our government speech to be two way, from the youth and to the youth.
"We need our speech and government communication to be modern, using the language of the youth. If we want to understand the youth, all of our governmental communication departments must open direct and diverse channels with them, and we have to be where they are, and communicating with them through the use of the same modern technology which they use, listening to their voices, opinions and aspirations, otherwise we would be left, in the words of H.H. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, 'Swimming against the currents'."
DONEGAL, Ireland - Several emergency response teams have gathered at the location of a tragic ...
CORK, Ireland - A man in his early 70s is said to have died on ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - Hundreds of passengers were left in the lurch after dozens of flights ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - Gardai have made another breakthrough in the probe relating to the horrific ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - A huge amount of money that was allocated by a European fund ...
Get the latest Irish Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Irish Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved