2014-07~09
http://ca.reuters.com/article/topNews/idCAKBN0HB0V620140916

China scholar shackled, refused warm clothes ahead of trial: lawyer | Top News | Reuters
BEIJING (Reuters) - An ethnic Uighur academic in China is being kept in shackles and has been refused warm clothing ahead of his trial in the Xinjiang region, his lawyer said on Tuesday, in a case that has drawn concern over judicial and human rights abuses.
Ilham Tohti, an economics professor who championed the rights of Xinjiang's Muslim Uighur people, is due to go on trial on separatism charges on Wednesday in the region's capital of Urumqi.
Tohti was detained in January and accused of promoting Xinjiang's independence from China. His arrest is seen as part of a broader crackdown on what the government says is violence carried out by Islamist militants and separatists there.
"He said he is still in leg irons. Urumqi is already cold, but he is still wearing shorts sleeves and he has fallen ill. He has not been given the clothes his family sent to him," Tohti's lawyer Li Fangping told Reuters by phone.
"Given the situation, his spirits are actually quite good," Li said after meeting his client on Monday, adding that prolonged exposure to such conditions constituted a violation of Chinese law.
Li said prosecutors had denied a request to have the trial moved from Urumqi to Beijing, where Tohti lived, worked and operated a Uighur-language website. Several of Tohti's students, who had worked on the website, have also been detained.
"They won't even give him access to photos sent by his family. After a month they say they are still evaluating the pictures. They are worried that there are secret codes in the pictures," Li said.
Reuters was unable to reach the court for comment.
  Continued...
International Editions :

Africa  | 
 Arabic  | 
 Argentina  | 
 Brazil  | 
 Canada  | 
 China  | 
 France  | 
 Germany  | 
 India  | 
 Italy  | 
 Japan  | 
 Latin America  | 
 Mexico  | 
 Russia  | 
 Spain  | 
 United Kingdom  | 
 United States
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.