2014-07~09
http://blogs.economictimes.indiatimes.com/folk-theorem/end-british-made-dispute/

End British-made Dispute - ET Blogs
When India gained Independence, China was engaged in a fierce internal struggle for control of power. So, who determined the borders of India and China that we squabble over to this day?
There’s a poem by WH Auden, Partition, which is ruthlessly sarcastic of the way Sir Cyril Radcliffe, a British lawyer parachuted into India and settled the borders of the soon-to-be independent nation over seven weeks in 1945.
As Auden points out, the maps he worked with were outdated or geographically inaccurate in some places. In any case, with China in complete turmoil, no colonial administrator bothered to ask Peking where its borders should lie.
The way India’s border with China was drawn was a hotchpotch. In 1914, the British got Tibetans and Chinese to agree to their idea of a definition of the borders of China and Tibet, in a meeting at Shimla.
The British and the Tibetans signed on it, the Chinese representative said he’d come back later with permission from the emperor. And things stood there till the 1940s. With the British in a hurry to leave India, they consulted old maps and records – including ones which imperial China had not signed on, to arbitrarily draw boundaries of India and China.
Independent India went along with this fiction till 1962, when China attacked along two fronts. It later retreated from Arunachal Pradesh in our northeast, but retained the northwestern part of Jammu and Kashmir, which they needed to build a road network to Xinjiang.
This is a matter of fact and no amount of propaganda, put out by the government in New Delhi, will alter this. China is not interested in our northeast And it will not cede what we list euphemistically as Aksai Chin on our sarkari maps. The situation on the ground is frozen at this: it is best that Delhi and Beijing acknowledge this and sign this reality into official papers.
In the 1980s, Rajiv Gandhi realised this and started the process of settling our socalled border disputes. This government should conclude it. There is no point in two nations disputing a border, when none of them had a hand or say in creating it.
The British left us with boundaries that they drew arbitrarily – and according to the whimsies of empire builders. Neither India nor China were independent then; we were being torn apart by the stress of Partition, China by its civil war.
Today, as rising Asian powers, we need to sit calmly across a table and draw up the India-China border amicably, according to the reality on the ground. After that, there will be no border disputes, no reason for TV news to go ballistic about incursions and every reason to trade and invest in each others’ economy.