2014-07~09
http://www.macleans.ca/culture/books/dispatches-from-a-china-we-never-see/

Dispatches from a China we never see
A review of David Eimer’s ‘The Emperor Far Away,’ a look at the ethnic minorities at China’s less-seen fringes
An ethnic Uighur woman (centre) hugs her son as she stands outside her house with her daughter and neighbours at an old residential area of Kashgar, Xinjiang in the Uighur Autonomous Region. (Rooney Chen/Reuters)
THE EMPEROR FAR AWAY: TRAVELS AT THE EDGE OF CHINA
Think of China, and a vision is quick to emerge of a populous, burgeoning power whose polluted cities, cheap industrial goods and whims of monetary policy threaten the West as America’s glow begins to fade. But the life lived on China’s frontiers is a world away from those clichés.
Home to most of the country’s 56 officially recognized ethnic minorities, but riven into dystopian prefectures, China’s borderlands have seldom-heard histories all their own, most subsumed by China’s self-written narrative of unity. Tibet is the most publicized example, but in Dongbei, in far northeastern China, the Manchu have long been assimilated into Chinese culture by the majority Han, their language essentially extinguished. Xinjiang was once a land the Turkish-speaking, Islamic Uighurs saw as a home to call their own, until an influx of Han migrants arrived in the ’60s, ordered in by government fiat to quash separatist rumblings. These days, even for the qualified, jobs are almost impossible to get, and those who dare to speak non-official languages risk imprisonment.
The Emperor Far Away, then, is an imperative undertaking. These are regions of China desperate for a sense of narrative, and the book illuminates their complex realities. Eimer, the Telegraph’s Beijing correspondent, traipsed across four of China’s seldom traipsed-across regions, from Xinjiang to Yunnan, and the book offers tantalizing peeks into the country’s most obscure crannies, even for those who think they know China well. Eimer is a spirited guide: There he is ditching a travel partner who becomes a bad-luck charm, here he is in a druggy romp doing karaoke with a Yunnan crime kingpin. The book is a rollicking travelogue that, for the most part, avoids the trap of maudlin soul-searching, revealing instead a China still wracked by growing pains, unsure of how to corral the minorities on its edges.
As he hopscotches across these oases and tiny towns, Eimer occasionally threatens his own mission to provide nuance. The Han are portrayed as one-dimensional oppressors and dullards, when they, too, are a fractured lot, with their own rural-urban and language divisions. Claims about Han culture go unexamined: “The Chinese believe only in money,” one ethnic Uighur tells Eimer. “It is hard to disagree with him,” Eimer adds.
His book is timely. Just a few weeks ago, nearly 100 Uighurs were killed by state police—China claimed there was an organized terrorist attack. Eimer finds that in hopes of escaping this cultural subjugation, some wish for a sudden sputtering of the Chinese economy or for foreign intervention. It is clear neither is forthcoming.
American’s light is not fading. The decrease in luminosity that you see is merely Obama’s standing in the way of the light. Hopefully the American people will wake up in 2016 and rush the Democratic Party bums out.
What’s new under the sun? Hardly any. To say “the Chinese believe only in money” is a cliche blanket statement that has become somewhat a bit tiresome and even annoying. Only those people who have failed miserably in dealing with those more aggressive Chinese would use it without thinking it through. For David Elmer to accept it without any qualification at all has only discredited him as an author and does not put him in good lights. The pen may be mightier than the sword but with a wrong stroke, it has rendered itself as impotent as the sword. Pity!
Notice: Your email may not yet have been verified. Please check your email, click the link to verify your address, and then submit your comment. If you can't find this email, access your profile editor to re-send the confirmation email. You must have a verified email to submit a comment. Once you have done so, check again.
We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
We have sent a confirmation email to {* emailAddressData *}. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.
We didn't recognize that password reset code. Enter your email address to get a new one.
Sorry we could not verify that email address. Enter your email below and we'll send you another email.