2014-07~09
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2014/09/17/as-violence-surges-a-moderate-uighur-faces-trial-in-china/

As Violence Surges, a Moderate Uighur Faces Trial in China - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
When an American scholar came to Jewher Ilham’s apartment in January to tell her that her father, a prominent Uighur rights advocate, had been taken from his Beijing home by police, she started to smile. It took a moment, she said, to realize it wasn’t joke. As the WSJ’s Josh Chin reports:
“I knew they might take action against him, but I never thought it would be so fast and so ruthless,” the 20-year-old Indiana University student said.
Her father, Ilham Tohti, will stand trial Wednesday on charges of separatism in a case that illustrates the Chinese government’s shrinking tolerance of even moderate dissent at a time of increasing ethnic violence between Uighurs, a mostly Muslim ethnic group from the northwestern region of Xinjiang, and the country’s dominant Han Chinese.
Although a staunch critic of China’s ethnic policies, Mr. Thoti, a professor at Beijing’s Minzu University, had established a reputation as a moderate who advocated for change within the system.
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

The rude commentator ("Dalai NeMaGeDabi... "): are you from mainland China? why are you so rude?!
If he covers his head with a black hood, he will just be like the one who killed American journalist, Mr. Foley.
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
