2014-07~09
http://www.khilafah.com/index.php/the-khilafah/social-system/19537-uyghur-muslim-women-continue-to-face-oppression-from-all-directions

Uyghur Muslim Women Continue To Face Oppression From All Directions! | Khilafah.com
On August 6th, Radio Free Asia reported that Karamay, a city in China’s northwestern Xinjiang province has prohibited women who wear Islamic clothing from traveling on public transport. Based on Karamay Daily, the authorities said people wearing hijabs, burkas, or clothing with the Islamic star and crescent image are banned from riding local buses. The paper said that the ban also extends to men having “large beards,” adding that “those who do not cooperate with inspection teams will be handled by police”. On the same date, Bloomberg News reported that the Chief of the Communist Party in Xinjiang – Zhang Chunxian signaled new curbs on births for Uyghur Muslims. He wrote in an essay in the August edition of Qiushi, an official magazine of the party, that Southern Xinjiang will, “implement family planning policy on all ethnic groups to lower and stabilize an appropriate birth rate.” This is despite China relaxing its one child policy for some of its citizens.
These are just the latest racist, discriminatory policies instigated by the totalitarian anti-Muslim Chinese regime against the Muslim Uygur population and their deeply held Islamic practices and beliefs. Not only are Uyghur Muslim women systematically pressured to abandon their Islamic dress by this tyrannical system, but they are also robbed of their God-given right to bear children and define the size of their family according to their own wishes! It is just one arm of the onslaught of the Chinese government against its Muslim minority to curb the resurgence of Islam within the region. Uyghur Muslim women have previously also been forced to undergo horrific abortions, even in their ninth month of pregnancy. Additionally, on July 28th, the Chinese regime killed dozens of Uyghurs in Yarkand in Chinese, Shache county, Xinjiang.
This is happening at a time when we also witness the carnage that has befallen the honourable Muslim women of Gaza, Syria, Pakistan, Myanmar and elsewhere. From East to West, the daughters of this Ummah have been exposed to the wolves due to the absence of a leadership to protect their blood, honour, and Islamic beliefs. Indeed for over 9 long dark decades, since the destruction of their shield and guardian, the Khilafah State, the story of the lives of Muslims women has been one of indignity and intense suffering, insecurity and persecution, death and destruction. Under democracies and dictatorships alike, they have become helpless victims of predator Kufr rulers and regimes who have been allowed to oppress and kill them at will by the existing world order that cares nothing about their blood and honour – a world order that includes the puppet rulers of the Muslim world who have abandoned our sisters, aborted their sense of humanity and become adulators of the rotten nationalistic secular and capitalist world system. Indeed the hands of many of these rulers are themselves drenched in the blood of our sisters.
Does the suffering of your sisters not haunt your minds? Do their tears not burn your hearts? They are crying out to you from ash-Sham to China to give victory to Islam through giving your support to the establishment of the Khilafah so that they may live in dignity and security, practicing their Deen in peace. They have placed their hopes upon you, their brothers to save them from their oppressors. So do not abandon them to the clutches of their tormentors, for surely your Lord سبحانه وتعالى will account you for what you have witnessed and whether you fulfilled the duty that Allah سبحانه وتعالى has placed upon your shoulders as defenders and protectors of your Ummah and Deen. Your obedience and allegiance belongs to Allah Almighty alone, and not to these regimes you serve who have proven time again to be enemies of Allah سبحانه وتعالى and the believers. So return honour to yourselves and secure the pleasure of Allah Almighty and the rewards of Jannah by becoming the Ansar of today and the soldiers of the Khilafah.
وَمَن يُطِعِ اللّهَ وَالرَّسُولَ فَأُوْلَئِكَ مَعَ الَّذِينَ أَنْعَمَ اللّهُ عَلَيْهِم مِّنَ النَّبِيِّينَ وَالصِّدِّيقِينَ وَالشُّهَدَاء وَالصَّالِحِينَ وَحَسُنَ أُولَئِكَ رَفِيقًا
“Whoever obeys Allah and the Messenger, they will be with those whom Allah has blessed, of the Prophets, the Siddiqun, the martyrs and the righteous ones to whom God has granted His favors. They are the best friends that one can have.”
Women’s Section of The Central Media Office of Hizb ut Tahrir
Question: Assalaamu Alaikum Wa Rahmatullah Wa Barakaatuhu our respected Sheikh, may Allah increase your knowledge and virtue, I would like to ask and am confident in your virtue to be…
Five years of conflict in Syria has left much of the country in ruins and robbed millions of children of their childhood. Since the conflict began, 3.7 million Syrian children…
On 29th February 2016, Raheel-Nawaz regime hanged Mumtaz Qadri in Adyala Jail Rawalpindi. Mumtaz Qadri, an Elite Force commando convicted of killing former Punjab governor Salman Taseer. Qadri had stated…
A courageous and talented member of Hizb ut Tahrir named Maksudur Rahman, HR Manager of a hospital in Dhaka, has been abducted by Police Bureau of Investigation (PBI) on 10…
Hizb ut Tahrir in the Blessed Land of Palestine mourns the martyrs who passed away to the mercy of Allah سبحانه وتعالى in the tragic accident, that occurred in the…
The South Korean government’s report on Tuesday 15 March regarding their high youth unemployment rate in January shocked the nation -- and a private think tank believes the rate will…
Imagine possessing a bag of gold. One may think oneself rich, but without the means to sell it, the gold remains a bulky object with practically no useful purpose or…
Recently the media outlets in Kenya reported the arresting, imprisoning and prosecuting of Political Islamic Activist of Hizb ut Tahrir, Br. Arkanudin Yassin, who lives in Nairobi city, Kenya. He…
14 March 2016, the Telegraph reported that British journalist and television presenter Joan Bakewell had caused a media debate regarding the causes of anorexia and eating disorders. She contradicted popular…
On the occasion of the blessed revolution of our people in Shaam entering into its sixth year, Hizb ut Tahrir in the Wilayah of Jordan invites you to visit our…