2014-07~09
http://www.economist.com/news/china/21620234-china-signals-its-alarm-rising-dissent-xinjiang-jailing-academic-life-lone-voice

A lone voice silenced | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
ON SEPTEMBER 23rd Ilham Tohti, a scholar who has been an outspoken critic of the government’s treatment of people of his Uighur ethnicity, was sentenced to life in prison for separatism. The ruling by a court in Urumqi, the capital of his native region of Xinjiang, was the harshest known sentence in years for someone convicted of a non-violent political crime in China. By jailing Mr Tohti, who says he supports Chinese rule, the government has signalled a desire to silence even moderate voices of dissent in Xinjiang, where Uighur separatists have often resorted to violence to express their grievances.
Mr Tohti (pictured in court) has long been the highest-profile champion in China of Uighur rights. No other Uighur inside the country has come close to speaking out on such issues with his persistence. But the government, though unsettled by his pro-Uighur sentiments, has for a long time also worried about how to handle him: he taught economics at a prestigious university in Beijing that was established precisely to win over ethnic minorities like China’s Uighurs. Arresting such a calmly spoken academic risked fuelling even more sympathy abroad for the plight of Uighurs, most of whom are Muslims and many of whom chafe at China’s rule in Xinjiang.
Much has changed recently. A series of violent incidents involving Uighurs has unnerved the government. These include acts of terrorism both in Xinjiang, the homeland of 10m Uighurs, and in other parts of China. Although crude in nature, these attacks are said by the government to be part of an increasingly organised separatist movement with links to jihadists outside China. In October 2013, three months before Mr Tohti was detained in Beijing, terrorist violence struck in the capital. A car slammed into a security barrier near Mao’s portrait at Tiananmen Square and exploded into flames, killing six people, including three Uighurs inside the vehicle.
As he had done many times before, Mr Tohti gave interviews to foreign media after the Beijing attack in which he criticised China’s ethnic policies. Mr Tohti had long expected to get into trouble for his outspokenness; this time he did. The charge of separatism required little more than Mr Tohti’s own (far from separatist) words to convict him, says Nicholas Bequelin of Human Rights Watch, an advocacy group. “The test for separatism is criticism of ethnic policies, because ethnic policies are correct and if you criticise them it can only be because you want to wreck them and create chaos,” he explains.
The court’s verdict against Mr Tohti, who has always advocated non-violence, said he had “bewitched and coerced young ethnic students” into writing separatist tracts for Uighur Online, a website he founded late in 2005. (As many as seven of Mr Tohti’s students who have written for or helped with the website are believed to be in custody.) The court said Mr Tohti had “encouraged his fellow Uighurs to use violence”, including during ethnic clashes in Urumqi in July 2009 that left around 200 dead.
Mr Tohti has said he merely wants better treatment for Uighurs and more autonomy for Xinjiang (which is officially named as a “Uighur autonomous region”). The Chinese government has invested heavily in Xinjiang, including in oil and gas extraction. But critics note that many of the best jobs for these projects have gone to ethnic Han Chinese. They also say the government has intensified its controls on Islam in Xinjiang.
The imprisonment of Mr Tohti, and the confiscation of all his assets, are part of a broader crackdown on activists, intellectuals and lawyers since Xi Jinping became China’s leader in late 2012. In Xinjiang it has long been the case that trials relating to “state security”, as those involving separatism are described, are often conducted in secret. The publicity given to Mr Tohti’s case is therefore unusual. The authorities have allowed their crackdown to be associated with the plight of an internationally recognised individual. Barack Obama was among Western leaders who called for his release. Wang Lixiong, a dissident writer in Beijing, tweeted after Mr Tohti’s sentencing that the authorities had made him a “Uighur Mandela”. Xinhua, the government’s news agency, scoffed at the comparison and accused Western countries of using Mr Tohti as their “pawn to pile political pressure on China”.
Mr Tohti himself had long expected this day to come. In a video interview conducted in November 2009 he talked of being prepared for a long term in prison, or even a death sentence. “That just might be the price our people have to pay,” he said.
The fight against Islamic State will help define America’s role in the world
Scotland’s place in the United Kingdom is settled. Time to deal with its much larger neighbour
Japanese and South Korean firms are the world’s biggest cash-hoarders. This hurts their economies
Big banks have changed a lot, but there is more restructuring to come
Vast new waterways will not solve China’s desperate water shortages
America’s bombing raids on the so-called Islamic State in Syria have greatly increased its...
America may have hit a group planning to strike against it soon
It will take more than air strikes to end the conflict
America is getting richer, but most voters can’t feel it
Mark Pryor tries to persuade Arkansans that they like government
A new car service offers lifts for women, from women
A Texan border city offers a case study in the perils of populism
With days to go before the first round, the race is too close to call
What Brazil’s election says about the prospects of the right in South America
Canada’s taxpayers ante up billions to clean up the mistakes of the past
The deal between two presidential candidates to share power is the best outcome for the country
The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party eyes a new round of electoral gains
A string of egregious abuses fuels fresh calls to reform the army
The popularity of New Zealand’s prime minister survives a nasty election campaign
The world’s biggest water-diversion project will do little to alleviate water scarcity
The power shortages that have been holding Africa back are at last easing
Criticised abroad, Viktor Orban is going from strength to strength at home
Germans are wrong to assume they can just do more of the same
The door to membership remains open, but the region must do more to get it
Neighbouring regions worry about the Donbas becoming a largely ungoverned swathe of land
The European Union realises it is not designed to deal with the disintegration of members
Scotland’s independence referendum has opened cracks in the United Kingdom
Westminster has already begun giving more power to English cities
Old religious divisions, and their political affiliations, have broken down
The Labour leader flunks one of his last opportunities to look like a worthy prime minister
Scotland’s No to independence disappointed separatists everywhere. But it has stoked their desire...
As succession looms at the Korean conglomerate, much has to change
Larry Ellison’s job swap is only the start of a big transition at the firm he founded
Even if the British grocer’s accounting scandal is soon forgotten, its failure to protect itself...
Why a promising new class of cancer treatments is so hard to value
Legal gambling and changing tastes threaten the huge pachinko business
Getting to the top is as much to do with how you look as what you achieve
Big banks’ prayers for a halt to new regulation have fallen on deaf ears
The new government’s modest policies will not bring back 9% growth
Borrowers, not lenders, have more to fear from the latest subprime lending boom
A venerable Jordanian bank is found complicit in terrorist attacks
South Korea’s government tries to get firms to spend their accumulated riches
The size and homogeneity of a country’s population has a big bearing on its economic policies
A dramatic recent “discovery” in physics is looking rather dodgy
The invention of fire may explain the preference for evening entertainment
How peanuts are cooked may help explain why they are allergenic
Changes that will bring scientific discovery more freely into the public domain are happening. About...
A story of oil, fraud and a $19 billion award for damages
William Oliver, champion of the world’s wild pigs, died on September 10th, aged 67
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more