2014-07~09
http://www.dw.de/china-executes-tiananmen-square-attack-masterminds/a-17874091

China executes Tiananmen Square attack ′masterminds′ | News | DW.COM | 24.08.2014

China has executed eight people for "terrorist attacks," media reports say. Among those killed were three men accused of having masterminded a suicide car crash in Beijing's Tianamen Square in 2013.


The eight people executed were involved in "terrorist" attacks in the far western region of Xinjiang, state-run Xinhua news agency said early on Sunday.

It said 
three of the people had been "deprived of political rights to life" for "masterminding" an 
assault in Beijing's Tianamen Square in October 2013, in which two tourists died along with three attackers, after a car rammed into bystanders before bursting into flames. Some forty people were injured.

Beijing 
blamed the attack on Xinjiang separatists, who it says want to establish an independent state called East Turkestan. Xinjiang is the traditional home of Muslim Uighurs, who speak a Turkic language.

The other executions recently carried out were for crimes in Xinjiang ranging from setting up a terrorist outfit and illegally making explosives to attacking police officers and killing government officials, Xinhua said.

The executions are 
part of a crackdown on violent crime in Xinjiang after a string of deadly attacks there. Thirteen people were executed in June.

A suicide bombing in May killed 39 people at a market in the regional capital, Urumqi, and 29 
were stabbed to death at a train station in the soutwestern city of Kunming.

Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the violence in the region 
results from the government's own policies of cultural oppression and intrusive security measures, as well as immigration to the region by China's Han ethnic majority, which they say has led to discrimination and economic equality.

Beijing, however, insists that it has improved living standards and developed the economy in the region.

Beijing does not say how many people it executes each year, but an independent estimate put the figure for 2012 at 3,000, which is higher than all other countries combined.
A day after dozens of people were killed in clashes in China's restive Xinjiang region, the Uighur World Congress' Alim Seytoff tells DW Beijing's account of events intends to depict peaceful protesters as "terrorists." (30.07.2014)
  

Three people have been sentenced to death in connection with a deadly attack at Beijing's Tiananmen Square earlier this year. The government has blamed the attack on Muslim separatists. (16.06.2014)
  

Chinese authorities have arrested 29 people as part of an "anti-terrorist" crackdown in the northwestern region of Xinjiang. Xinjiang is home to a large Muslim Uighur minority and has been accused of breeding extremism. (05.06.2014)
  

A one year crackdown has been announced for the Xinjiang region in western China following the worst attack on Chinese soil in years left 31 people dead. China called the attack a "serious violent terrorist incident." (23.05.2014)
  

Members of China's Uighur minority have long complained they suffer cultural marginalization. Many now also say they are the victims of worsening repression, with accusations of serious human rights abuses. (22.04.2014)
  

Chinese authorities have blamed Uighur separatists for the bloodbath at a train station in southwestern Yunnan province. The assault by knife-wielding assailants left more than two dozen people dead. (02.03.2014)
  

Police are seeking two suspects in connection with a fatal car crash at China’s Tiananmen Square. But authorities have not said whether the crash was an accident or a premeditated attack. (29.10.2013)
  

Indonesian security forces have killed two ethnic Uighur Chinese militants following a shoot-out. The two men belonged to a militant network run by country's most wanted man.
A human rights lawyer has been charged with "picking quarrels and provoking trouble" for criticizing the Communist Party. Pu Zhiqiang - who has spent 19 months in custody - faces eight years in prison, if convicted.
China has announced the deaths of 28 people during a police crackdown in Xinjiang, home to many Muslim Uighurs. In September, the group allegedly launched a terror attack at a coal mine, killing more than a dozen people.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
