2014-07~09
http://www.oklahomastar.com/index.php/sid/225970905

Six held for serial blasts in China's Xinjiang province - Oklahoma Star
• The blasts struck at least three locations in Luntai County in the region's south on Sunday, including a shopping area
• The bombings came ahead of a verdict in the trial of Ilham Tohti, a scholar from the region.
• The United Nations, the EU and US have all called for his release.
BEIJING - At least two people were killed and dozens injured in a series of explosions in China's Xinjiang province, state media reported Monday.
The blasts hit at least three locations in Luntai County in the region's south on Sunday, including a shopping area, the Xinjiang government's Tianshan web portal said.
Six people were detained by police, said the website controlled by the government of Xinjiang in northwest China.
The blasts are the latest in a series of attacks across the country that authorities have blamed on ethnic minority Uighur separatists.
The bombings came ahead of a verdict in the trial of Ilham Tohti, a scholar from the region.
President XI Jinping is overseeing a nationwide crackdown against alleged Uighur terrorists.
The verdict in the trial of Tohti, an economics professor who taught at Minzu University in Beijing, is expected this week. He is charged with promoting separatism in Xinjiang, where about 45 percent of the population are Uighurs.
Tohti ran a website called Uighur Online which carried discussions of China's Xinjiang policies, where Uighurs face restrictions on their personal and religious freedoms. He has been in custody since January and was charged in July with "splitting the country".
Tohti faces a possible life sentence, Li Fangping, his lawyer, said last week.
Tohti had condemned the government's response to a suicide attack in Beijing's Tiananmen Square carried out by three Uighurs last year. The United Nations, the EU and US have all called for his release.
Xinjiang has seen rising tensions between the local Muslim Uighur population and Han Chinese settlers. Violence has increased in recent months, with deadly attacks on civilians in Urumqi and the southern city of Kunming.
In July, dozens were killed and injured in violence at police and government buildings near the city of Kashgar.
Two days later, the imam of a mosque in Kashgar, the largest mosque in China, was killed in an apparent targeted attack.
The Tianshan news portal said those injured in Sunday's blasts had been taken to hospital and "local social order" had been restored, without giving further details.
On Sunday, state media had reported that 17 police officers and officials had been punished over the two incidents in July, though it did not specify how.
The July violence near Kashgar, in Yarkant county, left 96 people dead, state media said.
China blames the unrest on Uighur separatists inspired by overseas terror groups, but activists say Beijing's repressive policies in the region are fuelling violence.
Washington - President Barack Obama nominated appeals court judge Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court on Wednesday, thrusting a respected moderate jurist and former prosecutor into the center of an election-year clash over the future of the nation's highest court.
Obama cast the 63-year-old Garland as "a serious man and an exemplary judge" deserving of a full hearing and a Senate confirmation vote, despite Republican vows to deny him both.
Standing in the White House Rose Garden with Garland, Obama argued the integrity of the court was at stake and appealed to the Senate to "play it straight" in filling the seat left vacant by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia.
"It's supposed to be above politics," Obama said of the high court. "It has to be. And it should stay that way."
Republican leaders, however, held to their refusal to consider any nominee, saying the seat should be filled by the next president after this year's election.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell spoke with Garland by phone but did not change his position that "the American people will have a voice." He said he would not be holding "a perfunctory meeting but he wished Judge Garland well," a spokesperson said.
Others in the GOP ranks were less wedded to the no-hearing, no-vote, not-even-a-meeting stance
- a sign that Republicans are aware the strategy could leave them branded as obstructionist.
Obama Selects Merrick Garland as Supreme Court Nominee https://t.co/f5rnTwzzQT via @VOANews
Unlike McConnell, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairperson Charles Grassley said he is open to meeting with Garland in the coming weeks, as did five other Republican senators, Rob Portman of Ohio, Jeff Flake of Arizona, Susan Collins of Maine, James Inhofe of Oklahoma and Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire. Others vowed to give his record a close look. The judge will begin visiting with Democratic senators on Thursday at the Capitol, before the Senate breaks for a two-week recess.
Scheduling courtesy meetings is a long way from securing a full hearing, much less winning the 60 votes needed for confirmation. Still, the White House seized the comments as evidence Garland's weighty resume and bipartisan credentials were putting pressure on Republicans.
Garland, aged 63, is the chief judge for the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, a court whose influence over federal policy and national security matters has made it a proving ground for potential justices.
A graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School, Garland has clerked for two appointees of Republican President Dwight D Eisenhower, the liberal Justice William Brennan Jr as well as Judge Henry J Friendly, for whom Chief Justice John Roberts also clerked.
As a federal prosecutor, he made his reputation overseeing the investigation and prosecutions in the Oklahoma City bombing case in 1995, as well as the case against Unabomber Ted Kaczynski.
When confirmed to the DC Circuit in 1997, Garland won backing from a majority in both parties, including seven current Republicans senators.
As a replacement for Scalia, Garland would undoubtedly shift the court away from its conservative tilt. He would be expected to align with the more liberal members on environmental regulation, labor disputes and campaign finance.
The DC Circuit isn't a hotbed for cases on social issues, leaving few solid indicators of Garland's views on abortion rights or the death penalty.
Garland's involvement in two high-profile gun rights cases has prompted concern from gun control opponents. In 2007, Garland wanted the full court to reconsider a panel decision that struck down Washington, DC's ban on handgun ownership. But Garland never took a position on the merits of the case.
In 2000, he was part of a 2-1 majority that said the FBI could retain gun purchase records for six months to make sure the computerised instant background check system was working. The FBI's position was challenged by the National Rifle Association and other gun rights groups.
But he is not viewed as a down-the-line liberal. He's ruled against giving the District of Columbia a vote in Congress. Particularly on criminal defense and national security cases, he's earned a reputation as centrist with a law-and-order streak, siding more often with prosecutors.
When his name was floated for the Supreme Court in the past, it was liberal groups that expressed concerns, pointing to early decisions favoring the government in disputes over the legal rights of detainees at the Guantanamo Bay prison.
Progressives and civil rights activists also had pushed the president to name an African-American woman or to otherwise expand the court's diversity. Obama passed over appeals court Judge Sri Srinivasan, who would have been the first Asian-American justice, and Judge Paul Watford, who would have been the second African-American on the current court.
Garland, a white, male jurist with an Ivy League pedigree and a career largely in the upper echelon of Washington's legal elite breaks no barriers. He would be the oldest Supreme Court nominee since Lewis Powell, who was 64 when he was confirmed in 1971.
In emotional remarks in the Rose Garden, he choked back tears, calling the nomination "the greatest honor of my life." He described his grandparents' flight from anti-Semitism in Eastern Europe and his modest upbringing. He said he viewed a judge's job as a mandate to set aside personal preferences and "follow the law, not make it."
Obama quoted past praise for Garland from Roberts and Sen. Orrin Hatch. In 2010, Hatch said he could be confirmed to the highest court "virtually unanimously."
Garland has experience with a prolonged confirmation process. He waited 2frac12; years to win confirmation to the appeals court. Then, as now, one of the men blocking his path was Grassley, who argued he had no quarrel with Garland's credentials but objected to a Democratic president trying to fill an appeals court he felt had too many seats.
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Supreme Court won't take up a dispute over whether an image ...
TULSA, Oklahoma - <br> Starting this week, Oklahoma lawmakers will address suggested changes to education ...
WASHINGTON - <br> The U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear a marijuana case against Colorado ...
TULSA, Oklahoma - <br> A motorcycle crash shut down the northbound lanes of the Tisdale ...
EDMOND, Oklahoma - <br> A former Edmond missionary sentenced to 40 years in prison for ...
Get the latest Oklahoma Star headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Oklahoma Star - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved