2014-07~09
http://www.worldbulletin.net/muslim-world/139915/china-bans-ramadan-fasting-in-east-turkestan

China bans Ramadan fasting in East Turkestan | Islamic World | Worldbulletin News
Authorities in China's East Turkestan (Xinjiang) province have officially banned students and teachers from engaging in the Islamic Ramadan fast, in yet another curb on religious freedoms against the region's native Uighur Muslim population.
The Turfan trade bureau on its internet website at the beginning of the week released a statement saying that all public workers, students and teachers were banned from fasting and participating in religious activities.
Bozhou, the region's official radio station, also announced that party members, teachers and youths cannot engage in Ramadan worship.
East Turkestan, resource-rich and strategically located on the borders of central Asia, is crucial to China's growing energy needs.
Analysts say that, despite its mineral wealth and billions of dollars of investment, much of the proceeds have gone to majority Han Chinese, stoking resentment among Uighurs.
Rights groups complain that Uighurs - who speak a Turkic language - are cut off from economic development because they face hiring discrimination, with jobs going to an influx of migrant workers from other parts of China.
Around 200 people have died in unrest in East Turkestan in the past year or so, the government says.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in East Turkestan, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest, a claim Beijing denies.
China has tightened its grip on public discussion about East Turkestan too.
In January, police detained prominent Uighur economics professor Ilham Tohti and charged him with separatism.
According to newly released data collected in 11 countries with significant Muslim populations, views of ISIL group are overwhelmingly negative
Gentle hearted Saladin Ayyubi, was one of the world's greatest warriors - chivalrous, humane, agile, brilliant and courageous. On October 2nd 1187, 828 years ago yesterday, Jerusalem was liberated pushing back the surging wave of Christianity out to engulf the Holy Land.



 he conquered Jerusalem, pushing back the surging wave of Christianity out to engulf the Holy Land.
Muslims around the world have gathered in open parks and mosques, celebrating the Greater Eid, Eid ul Adha, known as the Feast of Sacrifice
More than two million pilgrims have gathered in the Arafat valley for a day of prayer, marking the pinnacle of hajj in Saudi Arabia.
For first time ever, Kenya is sending a record number 4,500 Muslims to Makkah for Hajj
Worldbulletin presents a photo essay of Muslims celebrating Eid ul Fitr around the world
Eid al-Fitr starts Friday in Turkey and lasts through Sunday.
Muslims gathered from across Saudi Arabia and the world to pray Taraweeh prayer on Ramadan’s 27th night
With the end of Ramadan approaching, shoppers in Ramadan hit the markets to do their food, clothing and gift shopping.
Knowing the correct time of the day for daily affairs is important and it is the inventions from Muslim scientists who have impacted current clock technologies.
Ramadan, the Muslim holy month of fasting, has begun and World Bulletin has put together pictures that showcases Muslims from across the Islam world during this sacred month.
In Addis Ababa, turnout at mosques was so high that main streets had to be closed to make way for worshippers
West Bank cities are being decorated to celebrate holy month of Ramadan with Ramallah lighting the biggest lantern for Ramadan
According to a report by Calico Mercato website, the amount will be used to develop mosques and Islamic centers in Florence province.
Quran prints that were written during the Prophet Muhammads lifetime are now on display at the Berlin State Library
China opens separatism trial for students of jailed Uighur scholar
Chinese police raided 148 points in Muslim Xinjiang in 2014
China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing'
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
