2014-07~09
http://www.smh.com.au/federal-politics/political-news/embassy-refuses-to-deny-claims-chinese-government-issued-veiled-threats-to-the-abc-over-foreign-correspondent-episode-20140930-10o6z4.html

Embassy refuses to deny claims Chinese government issued 'veiled threats' to the ABC over Foreign Correspondent episode
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News, My Clippings, My Comments and user settings.
Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
The Chinese Government has allegedly threatened the national broadcaster over a news report on China's crackdown on the ethnic Uighurs population.
The Chinese embassy has not denied claims its government issued 'veiled threats' to the ABC over an upcoming Foreign Correspondent episode.
Fairfax Media today reported the Chinese government issued threats to Australia's national broadcaster that diplomatic relations could be damaged if the ABC broadcasts a report from its Beijing-based correspondent Stephen McDonell on Tuesday night.  The report deals with the Chinese government's increasingly harsh crackdown on the Uighurs, a small Muslim community in the far-western province of Xinjiang. The Uighurs have been the subject of a brutal crackdown by Chinese authorities.
A fortnight ago, the Chinese embassy in Canberra contacted ABC managing director Mark Scott to express its concerns about the program and requested it not be aired. A meeting was later held between two senior embassy officials and ABC director of communications Michael Millett.
ABC sources claim that, during the meeting, the Chinese officials said that if the program was aired, the ramifications would be wider than just a stoush with the national broadcaster.
In a statement issued to Fairfax Media, a Chinese embassy spokeswoman did not deny those claims but said some "unlawful elements" in the Xinjiang region had been carrying out a violent separatist campaign.
"China's position on Xinjiang is clear cut and consistent. Uighur ethinic group in Xinjiang is an unseperable member of the family of the Chinese nation. Xinjiang-related issues bear on China's sovereignty and territorial integrity and have nothing to do with the so-called ethnic and religious problems," she said.
"Recently, some individual unlawful elements have been engaged in various means including violent or terrorist attacks, separatism instigation campaign aiming to split Xinjiang from China.
"Some violent attacks targeting innocent civilians completely go against the human conscience and morality, should be unanimously condemned by all the people upholding justice."
Mr Millet declined to go into any details about last fortnight's meeting except to say that the Chinese officials "expressed their views forcefully but politely".
The executive producer said it was a testament to the tenacity of McDonell and cameraman Wayne McAllister to record the plight of the Uighurs in the face of determined efforts by Chinese authorities to "stymie, stifle and impede their reporting".
 "We were very concerned about the integrity and safety of the material while filming and while trying to get it back to Australia," Taylor said.
The Chinese government has been condemned internationally for the life sentence that was recently imposed on well-respected Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti.
In 2009, the Chinese government unsuccessfully demanded that the Melbourne International Film Festival withdraw a documentary about an exiled Uighur leader, Rebiya Kadeer.

 Compare variable loan rates as low as 3.89% p.a. now

 All Galaxy S7 plans from all major telcos available now

 Grab a bargain on one of the year's best phones