2014-07~09
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/chinas-heavy-hand-xinjiang-fosters-extremism

China’s heavy hand in Xinjiang fosters extremism | TODAYonline
China may have valid concerns about the threat of terrorism in its far-western province of Xinjiang, home to the country’s mostly Muslim Uighur minority. Tuesday’s court verdict sentencing the moderate Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti to life in prison, however, is certain to make that problem worse.
The charges against Tohti, who was convicted of promoting separatism after a farcical two-day trial, are widely acknowledged to have been spurious. The Beijing-based economics professor has always sought to act as a bridge between the Uighurs and China’s majority Han population. His crime seems to have been to “internationalise” Uighur grievances, as prosecutors complained, by publicising them in Western media outlets.
Domestically, Chinese authorities will cast Tohti’s conviction as part of the wider campaign to combat Islamic radicalism.
In this, they’re playing on real fears. Two high-profile attacks earlier this year — at a crowded train station in the city of Kunming, in Yunnan province, and at an outdoor market in the Xinjiang capital of Urumqi — killed 60 people and shocked ordinary Chinese.
And while there is reason to be sceptical of claims that local extremists have operational links with terrorist groups in Pakistan or with Islamic State, young Uighurs have traditionally been able to access many of the same jihadist Internet forums as anyone else. China has as much reason as Western nations to worry about its citizens succumbing to radical appeals online.
More than a decade after the Sept 11 attacks, however, countries around the world have learnt how best to prevent attacks by homegrown radicals or scattered cells: With good, timely intelligence. The way to get that intelligence is to convince affected communities that it is in their interest to expose and fight extremism. The key is to build in resistance to jihadist appeals from the start.