2014-07~09
http://www.economist.com/news/world-week/21610326-politics-week

Politics this week | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
Three and a half weeks after Israel launched its military campaign against Hamas, the Palestinians’ Islamist movement in Gaza, the death toll continued to rise, to around 1,400 Palestinians, 59 Israelis and one Thai. Civilians and civilian infrastructure have borne the brunt of Israeli operations. Diplomats sought in vain to arrange a ceasefire. See article
The American embassy in Tripoli, Libya’s capital, was evacuated after fighting between militias, which started three weeks ago over control of the international airport, spread farther. Efforts by the UN and the European Union to bring peace were, for the moment, abandoned. See article
Fears rose that the Ebola disease, which took off in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea a few months ago, may spread farther, after an American died of it in Nigeria, having flown there from Liberia. So far this year there have been more than 1,200 confirmed, suspected or probable cases of Ebola in west Africa. See article
It emerged that Zhou Yongkang, once one of China’s most powerful men, is under investigation by the Communist Party for “serious disciplinary violations”—ie, corruption. Mr Zhou, who was a member of the Politburo’s ruling standing committee and who ran the state’s security apparatus, is the most senior figure to be brought down in this way in decades. It perhaps marks a new consolidation of power by Xi Jinping, the president. See article
Police shot dead dozens of Uighurs said to be attacking a police station with knives in China’s restless western region of Xinjiang. It was the worst violence there for months. China adopts a hardline response to Uighur discontent. The authorities claimed to have thwarted a terrorist attack; Uighurs claimed excessive force.
In the southern Philippines, Muslim rebels fired on a group making its way to a religious celebration, killing more than 20. The gunmen may have been from a militant group, Abu Sayyaf, that opposes a recent peace deal between the Philippine government and Muslim insurgents.
The last surviving crew member of the Enola Gay, the B-29 that dropped America’s atom bomb on Hiroshima on August 6th 1945, died at the age of 93. The plane’s navigator, Theodore “Dutch” Van Kirk, said he never regretted the deaths of an estimated 140,000 Japanese, mainly civilians, because it helped end the second world war.
On July 30th Argentina entered into default for the eighth time in its history, after it failed to make a payment due to bondholders who had exchanged defaulted debt from 2001 for restructured securities. Argentina missed the payment after a ruling by a New York district court in favour of a small group of creditors who have been holding out for full repayment of the 2001 debt, plus interest. Axel Kicillof, the economy minister, criticised these “vulture” funds and the American judge.Last-ditch negotiations on a settlement between the government and the hold-outs fell through. Standard & Poor’s promptly downgraded Argentina’s foreign-currency debt. See article
Residents of the port of Buenaventura on Colombia’s Pacific coast were left without power after an electricity-transmission tower was destroyed. President Juan Manuel Santos pointed the finger at FARC guerrillas, with whom he is currently conducting peace talks.
The European Union and the United States imposed new sanctions on Russia to punish the country for its support of separatists in eastern Ukraine. The new sanctions make it harder for Europeans and Americans to invest in Russian state-owned banks, and prohibit the export of technology to its oil and defence industries. The gas industry was not targeted, presumably because several European countries depend on Russian gas exports. Russia called the measures “destructive and short-sighted”. See article
The death toll in the Ukraine war is mounting. The United Nations reported that by July 26th 1,129 people had been killed in eastern Ukraine, 799 of them civilians. Ukraine’s army has made advances since the start of an offensive in early July, surrounding Donetsk, the region’s biggest city, and establishing some control over border crossings. But many of the pro-Russian insurgents are now dug in to cities. To dislodge them, Ukraine may step up its shelling and engage in street fighting. That could speed up the rise in casualties. See article
Spain’s economy grew by 0.6% in the second quarter of 2014, the fastest quarterly rate since the financial crisis began. This follows a report that Spain added 190,000 jobs in the past year, the first annual increase in six years. Economists view the gain as evidence that Spain’s unpopular labour reforms are beginning to work. The prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, promised to enact further job-friendly measures after the summer break. See article
The British government invited firms to bid for the right to extract shale gas, the first new licences for six years. Over 40% of Britain is now open for exploration. In an effort to assuage the concerns of environmentalists, the government said firms would be allowed to frack in national parks, heritage sites and areas of outstanding beauty only under “exceptional circumstances”.
A federal judge overturned the District of Columbia’s ban on carrying handguns in public, calling it unconstitutional. Police in Washington were instructed not to arrest residents with properly registered guns. City officials have 90 days to rewrite the law or appeal the decision.
Elsewhere a federal appeals court in Virginia struck down a state ban on same-sex marriage. Nearly all of the legal challenges to state bans have succeeded since the Supreme Court struck down part of the Defence of Marriage Act.
California implemented emergency water restrictions in response to worsening drought conditions. In January Governor Jerry Brown declared a drought emergency, and urged Californians to cut water use by 20%. Fines of up to $500 a day could be levied upon homes and businesses caught wasting water. Fast spreading wildfires, around Sacramento and Yosemite national park, forced hundreds of people from their homes. See article
For all its military might, Israel faces a grim future unless it can secure peace
Why Mukesh Ambani, India’s richest man, needs to reform his empire
Cristina Fernández argues that her country’s latest default is different. She is missing the...
Britain’s prisons are in a shameful state. The solution is simple, but takes courage
Regulators should avoid tightening the rules on the fund-management industry
The pummelling of Gaza has cost Israel sympathy not just in Europe, but also among Americans....
Barack Obama’s ambitions for Africa will be a measure of American engagement with the world
What a shortage of workers on film sets in Georgia says about America
Why America should hold all of its primary elections on one day
Body art is growing more popular, though few employers are keen
A deft nomination could garner support across the political spectrum
Two unpopular candidates battle it out in the Sunshine State
A revealing new history of the Apollo moon landings holds lessons for today
Argentina has defaulted again. But a deal with its creditors is not out of the question
Latin America needs term limits. But how strict should they be?
Both government and opposition are in a state of paralysis
Our departing South-East Asia correspondent explains how the “plural society” remains key to...
Restarting nuclear plants is unpopular but crucial for Shinzo Abe
In carrying out the most significant purge in a generation, Xi Jinping seeks to tighten his grip
Many Sierra Leoneans refuse to take the advice of medical experts on Ebola
Iraq’s bloody mess has helped the regime in Syria and its jihadist enemy
The militias are at each others’ throats as a new parliament tries to assemble
The cost of Vladimir Putin’s gamble in Ukraine is going up, but he shows no sign of changing...
How far will Vladimir Putin go to stave off a Ukrainian victory?
The labour market is recovering at last. But it needs further reform
The region’s most brutal Islamists inflict pain on its moderate ones
The election of a satirical party to the European Parliament speaks volumes
Overcrowded and understaffed, prisons in England and Wales are deteriorating
When it was last this size, Britain’s economy looked very different
Even with a mayor, Bristol may not get a coherent transport policy
Poverty and dependence on the state pull Scots in opposite directions
How Britain’s former dominions remember the war that propelled them to independence
Mukesh Ambani, India’s most powerful tycoon, could make his country a better place. But he would...
Sanctions will thwart Rosneft’s ambitions to join the ranks of oil’s superpowers
In business disputes taken to arbitration, winning is just the start
The rise of e-commerce has set off a boom in the market for warehouses
A peddler of pricey organic and natural foods finds it has competition
Regulators worry that the asset-management industry may spawn the next financial crisis
When interest rates start rising, how high will they go?
Consumers are borrowing again, but the economy has been slow to respond
Colombia overtakes Peru to become the region’s fastest-growing big economy
The European Central Bank should adopt quantitative easing now rather than as a last resort
A variation in the cognitive abilities of the two sexes may be more about social development than...
The rise of Ronald Reagan meant far more than victory for the Republicans
Despite his fame, very little is known about Egypt’s boy-king
Robert Panara, poet and pioneer of deaf studies, died on July 20th aged 94
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more