2014-07~09
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/article/1595295/china-jails-four-uygurs-plotting-attacks-and-trying-join-foreign-terror

China sentences four for 'plotting attacks' and 'trying to join foreign terror groups' | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
People with Uygur-sounding names handed up to 20-year prison sentences for alleged terror activities
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
A Chinese court has sentenced four people to up to 20 years in jail for “plotting terror attacks”, state media said, the latest in a wave of rulings as the government accelerates a crackdown on what it says is violence fuelled by Islamist militants.
The four were found guilty of “participating in terrorist organisations, illegally making explosives, offering funds or harbouring suspects”, the Xinhua news agency said late on Wednesday, in a report on their trial in the southwestern province of Yunnan.
The defendants, three men and a woman, “came under influence of extremist religious thoughts” and “accepted extremist religious thoughts and violent terrorism views”, Yunnan.cn, a news portal of the government-owned Yunnan Daily reported the court as saying.
“The court said the gang ... made explosives in Beijing and Yunnan, attempting to launch jihad,” Xinhua added
Two of the defendants were detained when trying to cross the border in neighbouring Guangxi province to join the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a  separatist group the Chinese government has accused of committing  a series of terrorist  acts in Xinjiang.
The other two were captured in Honghe, the Yunnan.cnreport said without giving the date of their arrest.
All four defendants, who are Uygur judging by their names, appealed against the rulings, it said.
The decision follows last week's sentencing of three people to death and one to life in prison for a March attack at the Kunming train station in Yunnan in which 31 people died and 141 were injured.
China's leaders have vowed to strike hard at religious militants and separatist groups, which they blame for a series of attacks across China and in Xinjiang, the traditional home of Uygurs.
Shen Deyong, the executive vice-president of China's Supreme People's Court, urged judges to “speed up trials of terror cases and deliver exemplary penalties”, Xinhua reported last week.
Xinjiang, resource-rich and strategically located on the borders of central Asia, is crucial to China's growing energy needs. Analysts say much of the economic development there has benefited majority Han Chinese, stoking resentment among Uygurs.
Exiled Uygur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest. Beijing denies that.
Hundreds of people have died in violence in Xinjiang in the past 18 months or so, the government says.
The sentences came as the separate trial of a prominent Muslim academic began in the western region of Xinjiang. Economics professor Ilham Tohti, who has championed the rights of the region's Muslim Uighur people, has been charged with separatism.
Tohti has rejected charges at his trial that opened on Wednesday in Xinjiang's capital of Urumqi. The trial has drawn international concern over alleged judicial and human rights abuses.