2014-07~09
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2014/09/23/uighur-scholar-in-china-sentenced-to-life-in-prison/

Uighur Scholar in China Sentenced to Life in Prison - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
A Chinese court sentenced prominent scholar and ethnic-rights activist Ilham Tohti to life in prison, his lawyer said, in a case that analysts said could encourage extremism among the country’s mostly Muslim Uighur minority. As the WSJ’s Josh Chin reports:
The court in the northwestern Chinese region of Xinjiang also ordered all his assets seized, wrote Liu Xiaoyuan, his lawyer, on Twitter, citing Mr. Tohti’s family members. “Ilham said one line, that he didn’t accept the verdict, and was then rushed from the court by police,” Mr. Liu wrote.
Mr. Tohti, a professor of economics at Beijing’s Minzu University, was charged with separatism. He has been a fierce critic of China’s ethnic policies, particularly in Xinjiang, which has a large Uighur population. Still, scholars and other activists widely describe him as a moderate who was careful to avoid advocating independence for the restive region.
The sentence was harsher than many experts had expected. The scholar’s lawyers had earlier said he could face anywhere from 10 years to life in prison.
The sentence comes at a time of surging violence between Uighurs in Xinjiang and the country’s dominant Han Chinese, including a bloody clash in western Xinjiang near the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan in which dozens were killed.
Mr. Tohti’s arrest and trial demonstrated a hardening of attitudes in Beijing in the face of rising ethnic violence, said Sean Roberts, an expert on Xinjiang at George Washington University.
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

The shooting happened in the parking lot of a Circle K on Broad River Road Sept. 4 after Lance Cpl. Sean Groubert pulled Levar Edward Jones over for a seatbelt violation.
In the video released Wednesday night, Groubert asks for Jones' license. Jones then checks his back pocket before going back to his vehicle.
Groubert then fires several shots at Jones before Jones falls to the ground.
MOBILE USERS: Tap here to watch the full dash cam footage.
While Jones is on the ground with a gunshot wound to the hip, he asks Groubert "What did I do, sir?"
"I don't know what happened," Jones says in the video. "I just grabbed my license."
Groubert explains to Jones the reason he shot at him was because Jones dove head first in the vehicle.
..if this scholar received a fair trial. But China is synonymous with travesty of justice so this is just business as usual.
What I really enjoy about Greenwald is how artfully he makes factual observations like:
"the 7th predominantly Muslim country bombed by the 2009 Nobel Peace Laureate"
and the moral/ethical judgments explode. Sometimes reality has a moral/ethical bias.
I enjoy how Obama puts a lot of work into showing there is only one political party with two PR teams. Aside from all the PR BS, the only difference if the other PR team won, is the list might be 8 instead of 7 and there might be subtle differences in the order of countries bombed. We only have one political party and its the rich guys party.
"he seriously sees something wrong with bombing places that provide the world with negative value"
Be careful with stuff like that. You're basically providing written documentation of encouragement of anti-government domestic terrorism against united states government and financial system targets. We have and will send people to nazi style concentration camps for doing less than that. Hopefully you're living in the free world outside US jurisdiction, if such a place actually exists...
Who are the real terrorists?
The U.S. today began bombing targets inside Syria, in concert with its lovely and inspiring group of five allied regimes: Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, Qatar, and Jordan.
That means that Syria becomes the 7th predominantly Muslim country bombed by the 2009 Nobel Peace Laureate – after Afghanistan, Pakistan, Yemen, Somalia, Libya and Iraq.
The utter lack of interest in what possible legal authority Obama has to bomb Syria is telling indeed: empires bomb who they want, when they want, for whatever reason (indeed, recall that Obama bombed Libya even after Congress explicitly voted against authorization to use force, and very few people seemed to mind that abject act of lawlessness; constitutional constraints are not for warriors and emperors).
".......... in a case that analysts said could encourage extremism among the country’s mostly Muslim Uighur minority. As the WSJ’s Josh Chin reports:"
Mr. Josh Chin also wrote; The bombing of Islamic State by US could encourage extremism of "Sunni" Muslims to fight further against US.
It is funny how many American sees the world. If US does it, it must be right . If other countries do it, it must be undemocratic and oppressive. I am not saying censorship or torture are acceptable or right. But I remembered US had always condemn these acts in the past. Now US is also doing that. What a hypocrite!
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
