2014-07~09
http://www.dawn.com/news/1117335/pakistans-war-on-terrorism/RK=0

Pakistan’s ‘war on terrorism’ - Newspaper - DAWN.COM
FINALLY, Pakistan has declared its own ‘war on terrorism’. The North Waziristan operation, the prime minister’s pronouncements and the adoption of the Protection of Pakistan Bill by the National Assembly are significant signals of serious intent to rid the country of the terrorist menace.
To succeed, the government will have to plan and pursue a comprehensive strategy and utilise all relevant instruments of state power — military, police, intelligence, diplomatic and economic.
The North Waziristan operation was long in coming. The political reticence was overcome by the failure of the talks with the Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) and its relentless acts of terrorism. The attack on the Karachi airport was the final straw.
The North Waziristan operation is unlikely to be fully successful since it lacked the vital element of surprise. Most of the militants, it must be presumed, have slipped out of the agency. Even so, the military operation will disrupt the militant groups that are affiliated with the TTP and cleanse the epicentre of anti-Pakistan terrorism.
However, the presumed dispersal of the motley group of TTP militants will require the elimination of their external (Afghan) safe havens and their ‘internal’ hideouts within Pakistan. Both objectives are challenging.
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif rightly, if belatedly, requested Afghan President Hamid Karzai to seal the escape routes from North Waziristan into Afghanistan. Given the known and self-declared support given by Afghan Intelligence to elements of the TTP and the safe haven provided to Mullah Fazlullah, the current TTP ‘leader’, Karzai’s unhelpful response was not surprising.
To eliminate the Afghan safe havens, and end the support to the TTP and the so-called Balochistan Liberation Army from Afghan (and Indian) intelligence, Pakistan might find itself considering both soft and hard options.
Like Washington, Pakistan can hope that Afghanistan’s next president will be more helpful than Karzai. Pakistan can reciprocate Kabul’s cooperation by using its presumed ‘influence’ with the Afghan Taliban to promote reconciliation within Afghanistan. Unfortunately, if the Afghan election ends in controversy and crystallizes that country’s ethnic and regional divisions, the likelihood of any cooperation from Kabul to eliminate the TTP’s safe havens will recede further.
Failing to secure such cooperation, Pakistan could press the United States to use its vaunted drones to attack the TTP safe havens inside Afghanistan. This would be an acid test of America’s sincerity in combating all terrorists. If such US action is not forthcoming, a much harder option might be considered: Pakistan’s acquisition of armed drones (from China) to target the TTP’s safe havens in Afghanistan.
Since elements of the TTP consist of Uzbeks and Chechens, who also threaten Russia and Central Asia, and Uighurs, who threaten China, Pakistani authorities might seek support from Moscow and Beijing — both military and political — to eliminate the TTP safe havens. (Collaboration with Moscow and Beijing may also be useful in promoting internal reconciliation within Afghanistan.)
Eliminating the TTP’s ‘havens’ in Pakistan will be equally if not more difficult. A priority aim must be to smoke out the TTP terrorists from their hideouts in Karachi. Further terrorist attacks like the one on the airport in Karachi could stifle all chances of investment and economic revival in Pakistan.
A second priority should be to neutralise the Punjabi Taliban. This will need bold decisions by the ruling party, some of whose members have well-known political links with sectarian groups. These groups should be pressed to break with the TTP and renounce terrorist violence or suffer the consequences of security action by the state.
Among the Pakistani groups, the Lashkar-i-Taiba has a unique position. It is not a part of the TTP. Its agenda is pro-Kashmir and anti-Indian. A dialogue can be attempted with the LeT to dissuade it from embarking on adventures, like Mumbai, which do not serve the larger interests of the Kashmiris, the Indian Muslims or Pakistan. It should be encouraged to pursue its agenda through political means.
Combating terrorism in Fata and adjacent areas of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa will involve winning over insurgent factions, such as the Sajna group, and tribal leaders, through a combination of incentives and disincentives. The incentives could include: provision of speedy justice, electricity, health services and education, political representation, monetary rewards and job creation, especially through infrastructure projects. A parallel endeavour is essential in Balochistan.
Halting terrorist financing is crucial. All the three main sources of such financing need to be addressed: criminal activities, such as kidnapping and drugs; contributions from religious zealots, both foreign and domestic, and money supplied by hostile foreign agencies and governments. With a determined, honest and intelligent effort, most if not all terrorist financing can be controlled.
Success in the counterterrorism campaign will depend considerably on effective intelligence and police functions. Existing structures are not up to the task. One or more special units, equipped with honest and qualified personnel, modern investigative and operational capabilities, and the intimate involvement of the armed forces and the intelligence agencies, will need to be created to address the multi-dimensional objectives of the counter-terrorist campaign.
It also seems essential to create an apex body, similar to the Nuclear Command Authority, where the political, armed forces, intelligence and diplomatic leadership can jointly formulate and oversee the execution of an agreed national counterterrorism strategy.
Ultimately, Pakistan’s ‘war on terrorism’ will be won only if it addresses and resolves the root causes of extremism and terrorism in the country: poverty, unemployment, injustice, inequality, ignorance and the erosion of tolerance, decency, humanity and nationalism within our society and polity.
This will be a long ‘war’. It will entail suffering and sacrifice. But it is a war worth fighting to achieve peace and prosperity for Pakistan’s 200 million people and to reclaim the soul of the country that was created by Pakistan’s founding fathers.
The writer is a former Pakistan ambassador to the UN.
Right on target. Could the powers that prevail in Pakistan follow these prescriptives?
Does this mean that Pakistan will eliminate terrorists that are a threat to it, but will not take any action on terrorists that it finds useful. It will coax. LeT to use political means, but use drones against TTP and the rest. This duplicity will harm Pak. again.
According to learnt author Pakistan should seek political and military help from Beijing and Moscow to crush TTP for killing Pakistanis, while LeT, a unique group as per the author, should be be 'dissuaded' from embarking on 'adventures' like Mumbai as it does not serve interests of Kashmiris, Indian Muslims and Pakistan, and not because of killings are bad. So killing of 166 people is just an 'adventure' and the perpetrators should be just 'dissuaded' from doing it while TTP should be annihilated taking help from Beijing and Moscow.
Can any sane Pakistani or any civilized human defend such contrast in approach towards terrorism ? Even if such an argument would have appeared in comments by readers it would have been surprising but a former diplomat stating it is just unbelievable. What makes difficult to deal with Pakistan is that they live in denial of such an approach that India has always claimed existed and here this gentleman just proved it.
No action on LeT ?? Sir, the reasons you offered for that are shocking. A murder in Pakistan or India or US is the same - loss of a life, then how can justify your argument ? you're a former diplomat and you advised elected leaders of Pakistan on various matters. If this is your thought process on tackling terrorism, no wonder Pakistan is in midst of chaos now.
May be it would have been better, if you explained why should Moscow support Pakistan now, since Pakistan used the same "Mujahideen" against Moscow in 1980s and boasted openly that Pakistan caused the collapse of USSR?
That reads like a chapter from a boring book on Pakistan. The devil Mr. Ex-Ambassador lies in the details of how all will this be done.
The dancing duo of Nisar and Nawaz made sure the TTP had enough time to get away.
Nothing new there. The Sham Peace Talks were a signal to TTP. Pack your bags for an
extended vacation. The Afghans will help take care of you. Or go to the beach. Karachi. 
Some R and R needed. Tiring work,...killing 57,000 men women and children.
On one side Pakistan is fighting TTP and other side supporting LeT, LeJ, JUD, for carrying out anti-Indian activities from its soil, is a complete joke.
Afghanistan is only paying Pakistan in the same coin- tit-for-tat policy.
So according to a former UN ambassador, brutal killing of 166 ordinary people is an adventure because it was staged by an 'unique' group which is anti-Indian? After so many attacks on Pakistani civilians and security persons ,good sense is still too far to be prevailed in such strategic depth followers. What if world community starts calling terrorist activities in Pakistan as 'adventures' done by unique anti-Pakistan groups? A height of hypocrisy by learnt author which clearly explains reason behind current condition of Pakistan.
one word for you ---EUTOPIA-- you really think paki govt and politicians can do all what you present as a wish list---- furthermore how come you are not seeing what will happen in afghanistan as soon as americans leave----I have real suspicions on your expertise as ex-UNO--ambassador---thank God you are EX now
''As militant proxies are used by the Pakistani establishment over decades to achieve their geopolitical objectives, groups such as the Haqqani network have emerged as the most significant challenge to the undoing of the militant infrastructure. With the security establishment selectively supporting certain militant groups, and targeting others that have out-lived their utility, their approach to curbing terror based on geopolitical strategy and interference in regional politics further threatens the state and their control over independent groups.'' DAWN
@Farida 
Agree, but the key to success will be economic development of these regions.
This operation will liberate Pakistani territory from Al-Qaida and Taliban affiliates. This has not happened in the past.

PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
