2014-07~09
http://www.dawn.com/news/1127428/china-targets-ordinary-uighurs-with-beards-burqas

China targets Uighurs with beards, burqas - World - DAWN.COM
UIGHURS: Outside a mosque in China's restive west, a government-appointed Muslim cleric was dodging a foreign reporter's question about why young men of the Uighur ethnic minority don't have beards when one such youth interrupted.
“Why don't you just tell them the truth?” he shouted to the cleric under the nervous gaze of several police officers who had been tailing the reporters all day in the oasis city of Aksu.
A plainclothes Uighur policeman swiftly rebuked the young man. “Be careful of what you say,” he warned. 
The tense exchange provided a fleeting glimpse of both the extremes of China's restrictions on minority Uighurs and the resentment that simmers beneath the surface in their homeland.
Such a mood pervades Xinjiang's south, a vast, mainly rural region that's become a key battleground in the ruling Communist Party's struggle to contain escalating ethnic violence that has killed at least a few hundred people over the past 18 months.
The personal matter of facial hair has taken on heavy political overtones in the Uighur heartland. Also proscribed are certain types of women's headscarves, veils and “jilbabs,” loose, full-length garments worn in public. Such restrictions are not new but their enforcement has intensified this year in the wake of attacks Beijing has blamed on religious extremists.
In a recent sweep of Urumqi, the region's capital, authorities last week said they seized 1,265 hijab-type headscarves, 259 jilbabs and even clothes printed with Islamic star-and-crescent symbols. Officials also “rescued” 82 children from studying the Quran, the government said.
The prohibitions on Islamic attire and beards have attracted widespread criticism, with many experts saying such repression angers ordinary Uighurs and risks radicalizing them.
“It's a self-fulfilling prophecy, it's self-perpetuating. The more they crack down on it, the more people re-Islamise. This is a pattern we see all over the world,” said Joanne Smith Finley, an expert on Uighurs at Britain's Newcastle University. “The Chinese state has created a growing terrorist threat where previously there was none. It has stimulated an Islamic renewal where there wouldn't necessarily have been one."
A major thrust of the yearlong crackdown on terrorism has been a campaign against religious extremism, with arrests of hundreds of people for watching videos apparently hailing terrorism or extremist ideology. But authorities also are targeting beards, veils and other symbols of religious piety in a campaign that creeps ever farther into Uighurs' daily lives despite official claims that the government respects religious freedom.
“At the moment, we face a very serious, intense and complex situation with fighting terrorism and maintaining stability,” a party newspaper, the Xinjiang Daily, said in an edict to “front-line” minority cadres in late July.
Officials, it said, must also act to control weddings without singing and dancing and funerals where there are no feasts, referring to Uighur customs the government says Islamic conservatives have barred.
Young Uighur men are discouraged from keeping beards and those who have them are stopped at checkpoints and questioned. So are women who wear Muslim headscarves and veils that obscure their faces.
Some public places such as hospitals bar such individuals from entering.
Earlier this month, the northern Xinjiang city of Karamay announced that young men with beards and women in burqas or hijabs would not be allowed on public buses.
In the city of Aksu, Ma Yanfeng, the director of the city's foreign propaganda office, said the government was concerned that Uighurs were being unduly influenced by radical Islamic forces from overseas.
“It's because they have been incited by others to do so,” said Ma, noting that traditional dress of Uighur women is multicolored. “Those clothes that are all black are a sign of influence from foreigners like in Turkey and have to do with extremist thinking."
Unlike in Saudi Arabia, Afghanistan or parts of South Asia, veils and abayas are relatively new to Uighurs in Xinjiang, only growing in popularity in recent decades, scholars say. Uighur historically have used “ikat” textiles with bold patterns and brilliant colors, an aesthetic they share with Uzbeks, Tajiks and other Central Asian cultures. Contemporary Uighur women, especially those in cities, dress like other urbanites though they aren't likely to bare a lot of skin.
Uighurs have been adopting veils and beards in a shift toward more pious lives, partly as symbolic resistance to Chinese rule and partly out of a desire for the egalitarianism associated with Islam to mend social inequalities, said Smith Finley, the Newcastle expert who has studied Uighurs since 1991.
Chinese authorities apparently make little distinction between these expressions of piety and the kind of extremism that poses a threat to society. In May, police in the county of Luntai raided women's dress shops and confiscated jilbabs. A photo on the local government's website showed four male police officers at a shop examining textiles while a woman in a black jilbab, likely a shop assistant or owner, stood in the background watching.
The rubber-stamp legislature in the southern prefecture of Turpan says on its website it is considering a law to impose fines of up to 500 yuan ($80) for wearing veils and cloaks in public.
The legislature says the law would help safeguard social stability, cultural security and gender equality and even protect health because, the proposal says, burqas deprive skin of sunlight and can cause heatstroke in summer. Elsewhere, officials have been rounding up dozens of Uighur women to attend indoctrination sessions and to trade their jilbabs and veils for traditional Uighur silk dresses.
“After today's ideological education, I now understand that the jilbab is not our ethnic group's traditional attire, and I recognize that veils and wearing jilbabs is incompatible with Islamic culture and is a backward and bad practice,” a woman named Ayiguli Bake was quoted by a local party-run newspaper as saying in a scripted fashion.
But on the streets of Kuqa and Aksu, many women could be seen wearing headscarves that covered their necks, though black cloaks were nowhere in sight and in most instances only elderly men had beards.Chinese officials probably are targeting outward manifestations of piety because they cannot “fundamentally alter people's inner states,” said Gardner Bovingdon, a Xinjiang expert at Indiana University.
"I can't make you stop admiring a more rigorous, scriptural Islam, but I can make you shave off that beard, I can make you take off that scarf,” Bovingdon said. “So that's what I'll do."
The authorities' heavy hand has reportedly sparked protests. In the rural town of Alaqagha, 40 kilometers (25 miles) south of Kuqa, police fired into a crowd in May when villagers violently protested the detention of women and girls for wearing headscarves and Islamic robes, according to the US government-funded broadcaster Radio Free Asia.
On a recent evening in Alaqagha, rows of surveillance cameras perched atop street lights watched residents breaking their fasts at a small outdoor market. Pistol-carrying police who were trailing Associated Press journalists kept an eye on the villagers, who included women with headscarves shopping at donkey-drawn fruit carts.
“It's the state's way of saying 'we don't trust you, we see your religion as being something that's inherently of concern to us,'“ said Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch.
"We are going to treat it as fundamentally problematic behavior, not as the basic right that it is.“
Silly, this attitude will worsen things. china is a super power rising and it should carry all with them not by re molding them into something they are not otherwise, they will end up having a similar situation as Indian occupied Kashmir and eternal conflict.
Wonder how the Pakistanis will react to these incidents done by their all weather friend China.. Will they condemn or keep silent! Or as always act bias!
Well all weather friend is bigger than ummah concept so lets not criticize them :d
@Mak Why you worried about Pakistan decision. If you think its wrong then say it. This shows how green eyed you guys...
atleast somewhere someone is doing great job by banning extremism. I wish one day Pakistan do the same.
There is no such restriction on the practice of Islam in India, Pakistan's supposedly 'traditional enemy' and there is no such restriction on the practice of Islam in America that we so love to hate. Unfortunately the country that oppresses Muslims the most is our friend China whose friendship we say is 'deeper than the seas and higher than the mountains'. How would we react if there were similar restrictions on Muslims in Kashmir, India or America.
We should wake u and realise that India and America are not the enemies of Islam or Pakistan. Indeed only China is a openly declared enemy of Islam
Well, first, it was forcibly stopping the fasting during Ramadan and now, warning against beards and veils. I feel Pakistanis are caught between the notions of "all weather friendship" and "Islamic identities". When some private people (of US or Western countries) did some nonsense acts, Pakistanis raged at those countries and called them names. Now, Chinese government is doing this. What's the response ? Looking at the guarded reactions, I think "all weather friendship" has won as there are no warnings/ dissents for China, leave alone a scathing criticism, which, I think, is reserved ONLY for US and other Western countries.
Do not see much good coming out of religious societies.. Do not agree with a government imposing such measures to wipe out religious practices however.
Pakistan depends on China for aid and other help against enemies of the country. So better to swallow one's pride and not criticize.
@David America is far worser enemies of Islam by killing millions around the world. China is doing wrong by not allowing any Muslims, Christians, Buddists to practice their faith. This is completely wrong and can cause future problems!
You do NOT need a beard or a hijab to be a good Muslim! The Chinese should do what they feel is best under the circumstances!
Pakistani Scholars and Leaders should protest with China to stop these things.
Uighur people should stay away from the Western backed Arab states, who want to use them against emerging China. 
China always tolerated the practice of religion by the Christians, Muslims, but they don't tolerate the interference by the outsiders to use the followers of these religions to corner China.
@Ajay Religious freedom and liberties are part and parcel of a civilized society. We live in America and men have beard and women do hijab and there is no problem.
China's scale of oppression of muslims in 'deeper than the seas and higher than the mountains'.
And yet no Islamic country has the courage to protest. Another Shame on the entire Ummah and OIC in particular. The story of Gaza is being repeated.
@jagjeet : The religious and racial discrimination China is doing is disgusting. This is a basic human rights violation!
You know what? Any group or country who does human rights violation or human killings should be deplored whether it is India, Israel, US, China or Pakistan!
@Alam You should thank the western people for that privilege. At least now you know, not many countries extend that privilege.
When France imposed ban on burkhas there was such a furore on human rights and religious freedom . China goes a step furhter and ven bans beards total silence from the community.why are the gaurdians of culture the arab states silent?
@Buddy Friends, Pakistan does not have any friends internally or externally. And you too Brutus. Where is the so called islamic ummah. My Pakistani friends wake up we still have hope nothing is lost, we can stand again. Put religion and corruption where it belongs and everything will be fine.
Chinese government should reconsider their restrictive and extremist policies for the long term good of China. All people in any country must have individual liberties and religious freedom as long as they don't disrupt freedom of other fellow citizens.
"hay kis ki yeh jurrat kay musalman ko tokay"
Dr. Iqbal is absolutely true but only when there is Islamic Shariat somewhere in the world. It's very unfortunate that Muslims today try to find shelter in democracy because they are impressed by the so called human rights in the western world. It's time for Muslims to think and return towards the Book they have.
@ And FYI, these are my rights and not privileges . Those societies which consider them as privileges and not as rights are going to disintegrate sooner.
pure hypocracy when china is concerned, after all they are all weather friends.
When Saudi Arabia forces all foreign women to wear Abaya (black cover) when they venture out in the street; its called respecting the local law.
This weekly drip feed of china having issues with muslims seems more of a propaganda than truth. We all know who does not like our friendship.
@Agha Asad Raza Hope you remember you comment if (not for sure ) India or USA in future banned beard and veil
@usman Green eyed for what ? How much is your trade with China ? How much investment from China this year ? See the figures for India before spouting your nonsense. LOL
Why Pakistan has not lodged a strong protest with the Chinese authorities against the Attrocities
Being committed against the Muslims in South west china?

PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
