2014-07~09
http://twocircles.net/2014jul04/china%E2%80%99s_crackdown_continues_xinjiang_muslims_bans_fasting_ramadan.html

China’s crackdown continues on Xinjiang Muslims; bans fasting in Ramadan | TwoCircles.net
Battling the continued terrorist acts in the country purported from Uighur Muslims, China has adopted a controversial move of banning millions of Muslims from compulsory fasting during the holy month of Ramadan. Fasting during Ramadan is one of the five pillars of Islam which is obligatory on every Muslim to observe for the whole month in the day time (from sun rise to sun set).
Statements posted in the past week on websites of schools, government agencies and local party organizations in the Xinjiang region said the ban would protect students' wellbeing and prevent the use of schools and government offices to promote religion, the AP news agency reported on Thursday.
"No teacher can participate in religious activities, instill religious thoughts in students or coerce students into religious activities," said a statement on the website of the "Number 3 Grade School" in Ruoqiang County in Xinjiang.
The ruling Communist Party has for years restricted fasting, particularly in the Xinjiang region in the northwest, which is mainly Muslim dominated. The region is home to the Uigher Muslims who are blamed for terrorist activities in the country by China’s security agency but Uighur leaders deny they are behind the attacks.
Similar bans have been imposed on fasting in the past. According to the Associated Press, this year's ban was unusually sensitive because Xinjiang is under tight security following a number of attacks that the government blames on Muslim rebels who allegedly have ties with foreign armed groups.
Activists have accused Beijing of exaggerating the threat from Uighur separatists to justify a crackdown on their religious and cultural freedoms.
The website of a local party committee in the county of Zhaosu said party cadres at a forestry bureau signed a pledge to “firmly resist fasting”, AFP reported.
A school also said on its website it would prevent teachers and students from fasting, while the state-run Bozhou Radio and TV University said on its website it would “enforce the ban on party members, teachers, and young people from taking part in Ramadan activities”.
“We remind everyone that they are not permitted to observe a Ramadan fast,” it added.
AFP reported Dilxadi Rexiti, a spokesman for the exiled World Uyghur Congress, saying: "China taking these kind of coercive measures, restricting the faith of Uighur, will create more conflict,"
"We call on China to ensure religious freedom for Uighur and stop political repression of Ramadan."
China accuses Uighur militants of waging a violent campaign for an independent state, and Beijing is often accused of exaggerating Uighur extremism to justify its religious crackdown on the Muslim minority.
Chinese authorities have reportedly encouraged Uighur Muslims to eat free meals and have inspected homes to check if the fast was being observed.
China has in the past said such restrictions on fasting were meant to ensure the health of government employees, according to AFP.
Violent clashes between Uighurs and ethnic Chinese have risen in recent years. In July 2009, conflicts between the Han Chinese and the Uighur erupted, killing nearly 200 people in Xinjiang's capital Urumqi.
Earlier this year suspected Uighur separatists went on a killing spree by knifes on the train station killing dozens of people.
An attack on May 22 in the regional capital of Urumqi by four people who threw bombs in a vegetable market killed 43 people, including the attackers.
On June 22, police in Kashgar in the far west said they killed 13 attackers who drove into a police building and set off explosives, injuring three officers. Authorities have blamed two other attacks at train stations in Urumqi and in China's southwest on Muslim rebels.
The government responded with a crackdown that resulted in more than 380 arrests in one month and public rallies to announce sentences.
According to Associated Press, the ruling party is wary of religious activities which it worries might serve as a rallying point for opposition to one-party rule.
Comments that are found to be in violation of any one or more of the guidelines will be automatically deleted:
Comments containing abusive and offensive language.
Personal attacks directed at the author and other commenters.
Comments targeting a specific community, caste, nationality or religion.
Regular offenders will be blacklisted and prevented from posting on this site.