2014-07~09
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2709940/Dozens-knife-wielding-terrorists-shot-dead-police-attacked-government-buildings-China.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490

Knife-wielding 'terrorists' shot dead by police as they attacked government buildings in China | Daily Mail Online

Published:
 13:45 EST, 29 July 2014

 | 
Updated:
 16:25 EST, 29 July 2014


Chinese police shot dead dozens of knife-wielding 'terrorists' dead yesterday after they attacked two towns in the country's western Xinjiang province.
A gang armed with knives assaulted a police station and government offices in the town of Elixku, in Shache county, according to local police.
Some then moved on to the nearby town of Huangdi, attacking civilians and smashing and setting fire to six vehicles.
Chinese police say they have shot dozens of 'terrorists' dead in the towns of Elixku and Huangdi after a knife wielding mob staged attacks on government buildings and police stations (file pic)
The attacks took place in the township of Elixcu, Xinjiang province, which is home to the Uighur people who have been previously accused of carrying out attacks by the government
'Police officers at the scene shot dead dozens of members of the mob,' a brief report from the country's state-controlled Xinhua news agency said.
An initial investigation showed that it was an 'organised and premeditated terrorist attack', Xinhua added.
The dead and injured include not just Uighurs, a Muslim people native to the region, but members of China's majority Han Chinese population, the report said.
U.S.-based Rebiya Kadeer, president of the exiled World Uighur Congress, called for restraint, saying that she was worried 'China will use this incident to step up repression, causing more people to lose their freedom.'
The attack took place at the end of the holy month of Ramadan, which officials had tried to suppress in Xinjiang, an indication of what rights groups say is discrimination targeting the Uighurs. 
Xinjiang, home to many Turkic-speaking Uighurs, has been marked by violence for years which the government blames on Islamist militants or separatists.
Officials say the rebels are bent on establishing an independent state called East Turkestan.
Earlier this year bomb attacks on a market in in Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang, left 39 people dead.
China says Uighur militants have based themselves in countries including Afghanistan and Pakistan in recent years, and this week China's special envoy for the Middle East said some had also likely been trained in Syria and Iraq. 
During a bomb attack on a market in Xinjiang in May, 39 people were killed after terrorists threw explosives into a market, setting off huge blasts 
Violence has also spread outside of Xinjiang, with activists also blamed for a knife attack on a train station in Kunming in March which killed 33 people including four attackers
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest, a claim Beijing denies. 
Xinjiang, resource-rich and strategically located on the borders of central Asia, is crucial to meeting China's growing energy needs.
Exiles, rights groups and many foreign experts say that most of the proceeds from this industry have gone to the Han Chinese, stoking resentment among Uighurs.
More than 200 people have died in unrest in Xinjiang in the past year, the government says, prompting a tough crackdown by Beijing.
Violence blamed by China on Uighur extremists has begun to spread outside of Xinjiang. In March, 29 people were stabbed to death at a train station in the southwestern city of Kunming.

 The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group