2014-07~09
http://www.sharonherald.com/news/article_bbe6b05e-48c5-11e4-be0d-9bd3fad97695.html

Police ease tactics in Hong Kong standoff | News | sharonherald.com
Overcast. A few flurries or snow showers possible. High 41F. Winds WNW at 10 to 20 mph..
A few passing clouds. Low 29F. Winds SW at 5 to 10 mph.
HAVANA (AP) — Stepping into history, President Barack Obama opened an extraordinary visit to Cuba on Sunday, eager to push decades of acrimony deeper into the past and forge irreversible ties with America’s former adversary. “It is wonderful to be here,” he said.
The annual Buddy Guerino Underclassmen Tournament will open today and continue through Saturday featuring numerous boys and girls local squads.
SLIPPERY ROCK – Slippery Rock University’s Stone House Center of Public Humanities presents Beer and Medieval Europe – an educational program exploring the important role beer brewing and consumption played in medieval European society – at 2 p.m. Saturday at the Old Stone House.
LET’S BE frank: When some of the most politically attuned voted for candidates to sit on the state’s Superior, Supreme and Commonwealth courts in recent elections, they frequently have not had a clue about who or what they were voting for.
Riot police use pepper spray against protesters after thousands of people block a main road to the financial central district outside the government headquarters in Hong Kong, Sunday, Sept. 28, 2014. A tense standoff between thousands of Hong Kong pro-democracy protesters and police warning of a crackdown spiraled into an extraordinary scene of chaos Sunday as the crowd jammed a busy road and clashed with officers wielding pepper spray. (AP Photo/Vincent Yu)
Riot police use pepper spray against protesters after thousands of people block a main road to the financial central district outside the government headquarters in Hong Kong, Sunday, Sept. 28, 2014. A tense standoff between thousands of Hong Kong pro-democracy protesters and police warning of a crackdown spiraled into an extraordinary scene of chaos Sunday as the crowd jammed a busy road and clashed with officers wielding pepper spray. (AP Photo/Vincent Yu)
HONG KONG (AP) – Hong Kong’s embattled police defended their use of tear gas but softened their tactics Monday after forceful attempts to quell pro-democracy protests drew tens of thousands more people into the streets in an unprecedented show of civil disobedience.
“The students are protecting the right to vote, for Hong Kong’s future. We are not scared, we are not frightened, we just fight for it,” said Carol Chan, a 55-year-old civil service worker who said she took two days off to join the protests after becoming angered over police use of tear gas Sunday.
Instead of candlelight, a few hundred people staged a brief “mobile light” vigil Monday night, waving their glowing cell phones as the protests stretched into their fourth day. Crowds chanted calls for the city’s unpopular leader, Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, to resign, and sang anthems calling for freedom.
“The students are protecting the right to vote, for Hong Kong’s future. We are not scared, we are not frightened, we just fight for it,” said Carol Chan, a 55-year-old civil service worker who took two days off to join the protests after becoming angered over police use of tear gas Sunday.
Students and activists have been camped out since late Friday, demanding that Beijing grant genuine democratic reforms to the former British colony.
Signaling it doesn’t expect a quick end to the demonstrations, the government said it was canceling a fireworks display planned for Wednesday’s celebration of National Day. During that holiday and a traditional holiday on Thursday, still larger crowds could flood the streets.
Police said they used 87 rounds of tear gas Sunday in what they called a necessary but restrained response to protesters pushing through cordons and barricades. They said 41 people were injured, including 12 police officers.
“Police cordon lines were heavily charged, by some violent protesters. So police had to use the minimum force in order to separate the distance at that moment between the protesters and also the police,” said Cheung Tak-keung, the assistant police commissioner for operations.
Riot police withdrew from the protest areas late Sunday, and on Monday, exhausted-looking uniformed officers manned barricades, blocking access to some buildings but otherwise not intervening.
The atmosphere was festive as constantly shifting crowds blocked major roads. People moved in and out of the sit-ins, some bringing in food and drink while others fetched their own. Some high school students, still in their school uniforms, sat on the pavement doing their homework.
“It’s already the fourth day, so it’s really tiring,” said Ching-ching Tse, a 24-year-old student at the Chinese University of Hong Kong who was on her second day of collecting trash in the protest area with her friends. “So we are forming some groups and hope we can do some shifts and take turns.”
While many Hong Kong residents support the calls for greater democracy – dubbed the “umbrella revolution” by some, although the crowds’ demands fall far short of revolution – the unrest worries others.
“I strongly disagree with the protesters,” said an older woman who gave only her surname, Chan. “Those of us who came to the city 60 or 70 years ago had nothing, and we worked and suffered so much to make Hong Kong the rich city it is today. And now the protesters have made our society unstable. For me, being able to eat and sleep is already a luxury. I don’t need democracy. What does it mean?”
Many younger Hong Kong residents raised in an era of plenty and with no experience of past political turmoil in mainland China have higher expectations. Under an agreement set in 1984, before most of them were born, Beijing promised to allow Hong Kong residents civil liberties unseen on the mainland after it took control of the city of 7.1 million in 1997.
The protesters are dismayed by China’s decision last month that candidates in the city’s first-ever election for its top leader must be hand-picked by a committee of mostly pro-Beijing tycoons. That move is viewed by many residents as reneging on promises to allow greater democracy in the semi-autonomous territory, since Beijing had promised that the chief executive would eventually be chosen through “universal suffrage.”
Washington urged authorities in Hong Kong to show restraint with protesters. White House press secretary Josh Earnest said there should be a “genuine choice of candidates,” adding that Hong Kong needs an open society with the highest degree of autonomy.
China has taken a hard line against various threats to the Communist Party’s monopoly on power, including clamping down on dissidents and Muslim Uighur separatists in the country’s far west, but it cannot crack down too harshly on the semi-autonomous territory where a freewheeling media ensures global visibility.
Across the border, Chinese state media have provided scant coverage of the protests beyond noting that an illegal gathering spun out of control and was being curtailed by police.
We have sent a confirmation email to {* emailAddressData *}. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account.
Please confirm the information below before signing in. Already have an account? Sign In.
We've sent an email with instructions to create a new password. Your existing password has not been changed.
Sorry, there are no recent results for popular commented articles.