2014-07~09
http://www.worldcement.com/news/cement/articles/Tianjin-Municipal-Party-tours-WCCs-Hetian-plant-423.aspx

Tianjin Municipal Party visits West China Cement plant

Magazines World Cement Hydrocarbon Engineering LNG Industry
Oilfield Technology
World Coal World Pipelines


Sign In | Subscribe | 
 Contact Us | Newsletter
On 26 August 2014, the Tianjin Municipal Party, government representatives and other local officials visited West China Cement’s (WCC) Hetian plant headed by Sun Chunlan, Tianjin Municipal Party Committee Secretary, and Zhang Chunxian, Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Secretary of the Xinjiang Autonomous Region Party Committee.
Zhang Peng, Manager of WCC’s Xinjiang district, welcomed the representatives and accompanied the party on the tour of the facility. Peng provided the representatives with a brief introduction, including an overview of the plant and its achievements in production, energy-saving and environmental protection, as well as waste heat recovery.
Both Secretary Sun Chunlan and Zhang Chunxian fully affirmed the plants progress in supporting Xinjiang’s development. The company hopes to continue to promote the economic development of the region and make further contributions.

 West China Cement reports a rise in cement sales volumes, revenue and gross profit in 2013.



West China Cement completes phase I of cement kiln waste sludge treatment facility


 As part of West China Cement’s efforts to improve energy conservation and environmental protection, the company has completed phase I of a cement kiln waste sludge treatment facility in Lantian, China.


 Increase in infrastructure investment and higher market share helped boost sales volumes.


 West China Cement slows expansion; cheap concrete halts property projects in China


 World Cement is a portal to added value information generated by Palladian Publications' cement-sector magazine. It also features an industry directory, events listings and a regional insight section.

Copyright © Palladian Publications Ltd. All rights reserved | Tel: +44 (0)1252 718 999 | Email: enquiries@worldcement.com