2014-07~09
http://manilastandardtoday.com/2014/08/03/96-killed-in-china-s-muslim-community/

96 killed in China’s Muslim community - The Standard
Chinese state media said Sunday that 37 civilians and 59 “terrorists” were killed last week in an attack in Xinjiang, home to China’s mainly Muslim Uighur minority.
The total toll makes the incident by far the bloodiest since rioting involving Uighurs and members of China’s Han majority killed around 200 people in the regional capital Urumqi in 2009.
Police arrested 215 “terrorists” while 13 civilians were also wounded in Monday’s attack on a police station and government offices in Shache county, or Yarkand in the Uighur language, in Kashgar prefecture, according to the official Xinhua news agency.
It was the latest in a series of violent incidents over recent months in and connected with the vast resource-rich region, where rights groups accuse China’s government of cultural and religious repression they say fuels unrest.
News of the clash first emerged late on Tuesday when Xinhua reported that dozens of people had been killed and injured by a knife-wielding gang.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the exiled World Uyghur Congress later said nearly 100 people had been killed or wounded.
In its report Sunday, Xinhua said that 35 of the dead civilians were Han Chinese while two were Uighurs.
“A gang armed with knives and axes attacked a police station and government offices,” it said, with some later moving on to another township, “attacking civilians and smashing vehicles as they passed”.
“The gangsters also set roadblocks and stopped vehicles passing by, before slashing passengers indiscriminately and forcing civilians to join them in the terror attack,” it said, citing police.
Officers had confiscated knives from the scene as well as “banners that hailed holy war”.
The news agency cited the government as saying investigations showed the attack was “organised and premeditated”, and “in connection with the terrorist group East Turkestan Islamic Movement” (ETIM).
Information in Xinjiang, in China’s far west, is often difficult to verify independently, and many foreign analysts doubt ETIM’s capacities.
Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the exiled World Uyghur Congress, said that the difference between the Chinese figures and those he had from his own sources were “too big”.
“China distorts the real situation of the Uighurs’ protest,” he said, adding that Chinese forces had opened fire and Beijing “claims terrorism to shirk its responsibilities”.
“If Beijing doesn’t change its extreme policies, it will lead to new clashes in future,” he said in a statement emailed to AFP.
6th Floor of Universal Re Bldg., 106 Paseo De Roxas cor. Perea Street, Legaspi Village, 1226 Makati City Philippines
© 2016 The Standard. All rights reserved.Powered by LEENTech Network Solutions