2014-07~09
http://www.hngn.com/articles/40134/20140825/teen-mastermind-behind-slaying-chinese-imam.htm

Teen Mastermind Behind Slaying of Chinese Imam : News : Headlines & Global News
By Vishakha Sonawane | Aug 25, 2014 09:02 AM EDT
Chinese officials identified the 18-year-old mastermind behind  the murder of the religious leader Jume Tahir in the  Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.
According to initial reports, the teen was influenced by religious extremism and used these ideologies to conspire and execute the plan of killing Tahir, a state-appointed imam of China's largest mosque.
Tahir was a controversial figure among Uighurs. In 2009, he supported the government after it nullified riots in Xinjiang's capital, Urumqi, in which nearly 200 people were killed.
Tahir, a 74-year-old imam, was killed around 6:58 a.m. July 30 at the Id Kah mosque in the county-level city of Kashgar. Police had then killed two suspects and arrested a third suspect in the case, reported Xinhua, the state-run news agency. The authorities revealed that the suspects were motivated by religious radicalism and wanted to "do something big." The suspects with knives and axes resisted arrest that resulted in the killings.
Aini taught his accomplice Nurmemet Abidili about jihad, according to the Xinjiang Daily. "The first time I heard the word 'jihad, I was really excited, I wanted to conduct 'jihad' and do great things", the newspaper quoted Nurmemet Abidili as saying.
The police report states that the teen Aini Aishan plotted the attack that happened in the western region of Xinjiang. Police detained Aini in Hotan city, located in Xinjiang, two days after the fatal incident.
"The goal is to kill Juma Tayir so you can go to heaven," Ainis was quoted saying by China Topix. According to the officials, Aini perceived Tahir as someone who "twisted the meaning of the Koran."
Louise Harrison, the elder sister of George Harrison, had a front-row seat to musical history.
Pigeons flying around London with tiny sensors on their back will help scientists in the fight against air pollution, which is believed to kill 10,000 people a year in London alone.
We Millennials are killing the art of conversation and the desire to make our voices heard – really heard – one text message at a time.
Impatient? You might be aging faster due to shorter telomeres.
Def Leppard's Vivian Campbell is proud of Last In Line's debut album "Heavy Crown," but says "it's never going to be quite the same" without bassist Jimmy Bain, who passed away in January.
Do you know where to find the best barbecue in the U.S.? Author Johnny Fugitt sure does - and now he tells HNGN all about his journey to write the book “The 100 Best Barbecue Restaurants in America.”