2014-07~09
http://www.independent.co.uk/i/matrix/the-news-matrix-friday-26-september-2014-9756694.html

The News Matrix: Friday 26 September 2014 | matrix | i | The Independent
We use cookies to enhance your visit to our site and to bring you advertisements that might interest you. Read our Privacy and Cookies policies to find out more.
Research by Cardiff University has found that the failure of antibiotics prescribed for respiratory, skin and soft tissue infections increased to 15.4 per cent in 2012 from a failure rate of 13.9 per cent in 1991. Lead researcher Professor Craig Currie said: “There is a strong link between the rise in antibiotic treatment failure and an increase in prescription.”
Police searching for missing London teenager Alice Gross cordoned off an “area of interest” last night. Scotland Yard said they had not carried out any digging in Elthorne Park, Hanwell, West London. Alice, 14, was last seen on CCTV on 28 August near the park.
State media reported yesterday that 50 people, including 40 assailants, were killed in a series of explosions over the weekend in Xinjiang region, in what officials called a severe terror attack. The news site Tianshan Net said bombs exploded at two police stations, a market and a store. AP
Researchers have found that turmeric, the yellow-coloured curry spice, can promote the repairing of brain stem cells and could be used to develop treatments for Alzheimer’s and stroke. Lead researcher Dr Adele Rueger said the spice fulfilled “a major goal in regenerative medicine”.
President Ernest Bai Koroma has widened a quarantine to include another one million people to try to curb the spread of Ebola. Port Loko and Bombali in the north and Moyamba in the south will be sealed off immediately. Nearly 600 people have died of the virus in the country.
A 70-year-old Scot sentenced to death in Pakistan over blasphemy charges is in hospital after being shot by a guard in jail. Muhammad Asghar, who is from Edinburgh, was arrested in 2010 after writing letters to a number of people claiming to be a prophet.
Only 94.3 per cent of children are getting the jab that protects against five diseases including tetanus and polio, which is below the 95 per cent level recommended by the World Health Organisation. The overall rate of childhood vaccination is highest in the North-east.
Parents and governors campaigning against plans to turn Hove Park School into an academy have won after governors took headteacher Derek Trimmer’s advice and voted against the change. Mr Trimmer said: “The time is not right to drive through such a change.”
Laws banning sibling incest in Germany could be scrapped after a government committee said they intruded into self-determination. “Criminal law is not the appropriate means to preserve a social taboo,” the committee said.
England and Wales are expected to bask in fine and dry weather over the weekend with temperatures of up to 20C in the South and 18C in the North, according to the Met Office. Scotland is forecast to see sunny spells and temperatures of up to 16C.
A YouGov survey has found that  52 per cent of Brits can cook  10 or more dishes; 32 per cent say they can cook 20 or more. But the survey, which marks BBC Good Food’s 25th anniversary, also found that 10 per cent of people, including one in seven men, could not cook.
A gambler has been saved from prison by a one-armed bandit. Police on routine checks at an arcade in Bochum discovered a man who faced an arrest warrant. He had previously been ordered to pay a €710 (£550) fine or go to prison. As they talked, the 37-year-old won a €1,000 jackpot. The man paid his fine on the spot.
Photos, drawings and letters to Tennessee Williams and Laurence Olivier belonging to theatre director Peter Brook have been placed at the Victoria & Albert Museum. The 89-year-old, who directed the film of Lord of the Flies, said he was delighted the papers would be “available to future generations”.
A teenager who threw a party  while his parents were away  called police to intervene after fights broke out among guests. The 16-year-old alerted the authorities after scores of revellers descended on the house and broke through a neighbour’s fence on Saturday night in Puyallup, Washington.
Hollywood actor Shia LaBeouf has run 144 laps around a museum in Amsterdam in what has been described as a conceptual art performance. The 28-year-old completed the feat dressed in purple leggings and a green vest and said nothing to reporters while he completed his run.