2014-07~09
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/226039927

China opposes interference in separatist teacher case - China National News
China Wednesday voiced firm opposition after the US state department slammed the life sentence given to a scholar from Uygur ethnic group for separatism in China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.
"Ilham Tohti's crime is clear, with solid evidence," Xinhua quoted Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying as saying, adding that the case has been made public.
Ilham Tohti was sentenced to life in prison for separatism in Xinjiang's capital Urumqi Tuesday.
The Intermediate People's Court of Urumqi gave the verdict, depriving Ilham of his political rights for life and confiscating personal property.
The court heard that the former teacher at Beijing's Minzu University of China spread lessons containing separatist thoughts via the website, Uygur Online. He coerced students to work for the website and built a criminal syndicate, according to the ruling.
The articles attacked China's ethnic, religious, economic and family planning policies, and incited ethnic hatred by distorting the causes of a number of riots and disputes that occurred in Xinjiang and Beijing, the court statement said.
During Wednesday's briefing, Hua said the trial occurred with strict adherence to Chinese law and all Ilham's rights had been safeguarded in accordance with the law.
"One or two countries make indiscreet criticisms on the Ilham case under the banner of 'democracy' and 'human rights', and even unreasonably demand to release him, which is rude interference in the domestic affair and judicial sovereignty of China," said the spokeswoman.
She urged the countries concerned to immediately discard their "double standard" and stop wrongly interfering in China's domestic affairs.
Responding to an analogy between Ilham and Nelson Mandela, Hua said the two persons are not comparable at all as Mandela was an anti-apartheid hero while Ilham is a criminal that has incited ethnic hatred.
"No country would tolerate words or deeds inciting ethnic hatred, secessionism or terrorism," she added.
Kunshan (China), March 21 (IANS) India were placed in a relatively easy group in the women's section but the men's team did not prove to be as lucky at the draw for the prestigious Thomas and Uber Cup Finals badminton tournament that was held here on Monday.
In the men's section -- the Thomas Cup -- the Indian team have been drawn along with 13-times winners Indonesia and strong contenders Thailand and Hong Kong China in Group B.
The women's team have been placed in Group D of the Uber Cup alongside Japan -- the runners-up in the last edition in 2014 -- Australia and Germany.
The tournament will be held here in Kunshan from May 15-22.
Meanwhile, Thomas Cup defending champions Japan and top seeds China found themselves in the same group as the draw. The two powerhouses were drawn in Group A alongside France and Mexico, ensuring that the starting stage of the finals itself should be an intensely competitive affair.
Second seeds Denmark, in Group D, were drawn along with Chinese Taipei, New Zealand and South Africa while Group C has South Korea, Malaysia, England and Germany.
In the Uber Cup competition, hosts and defending champions China will have to contend with European power Denmark in Group A. Their group-mates are Spain and Malaysia.
Group B consists of Korea, Chinese Taipei, Mauritius and USA, while Group C has Thailand, Indonesia, Bulgaria and Hong Kong China.
Sixteen teams each in the Thomas Cup and Uber Cup qualified for the final rounds based on their performance in the continental team championships and team rankings. The No.1 and No.2 seeded teams were separated in the draw by placing them at the top of Group A and Group D respectively. The other teams and corresponding group positions were then picked by the invited dignitaries.
The top two teams in each group will make it to the knockout stages. There will be another draw for the quarter-finals.

JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved