2014-07~09
http://www.news.com.au/world/china-state-media-reports-50-people-killed-in-explosions-at-police-station-market-and-store/story-fndir2ev-1227072191790?from=public_rss

China ‘terror attacks kill 50’
13:42 PMStaff writers ITS huge, curvaceous rear has been likened to the derrière of TV star Kim Kardashian. But jokes aside, the world’s biggest aircraft is soon to be a massive game-changer.
12:10 PMRod Chester, wires THE FBI says it may have found a way to unlock the iPhone of San Bernardino gunman Syed Farook without Apple’s assistance.
11:44 AMRod Chester in Cupertino National Technology Writer APPLE is very excited about its new range of products, including a new iPhone. Here’s everything you should know.
10:28 AMThe Sun and staff writers SHOCKING video shows a rampaging killer elephant toss a helpless villager around like a rag doll as locals watch on in horror.
9:52 AMJamie Seidel IT’S the single most dramatic event in history: When an asteroid slammed into Mexico 66 million years ago, triggering a mass extinction that killed the dinosaurs. Now scientists want to find it.
9:51 AMAAP WHITE House insiders have revealed where Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull stands on US President Barack Obama’s list of favourite world leaders.
9:02 AMStaff writers FORGET overcrowding. In The Netherlands the government is actually shutting down prisons because they have too many empty cells.
8:22 AMStaff writers A MAN who made headlines for allegedly having sex with his mistress on a Las Vegas Ferris wheel has been gunned down in front of his fiancee.
Attacks ... pedestrians walk past anti-terror propaganda posters pasted along the streets of Urumqi, farwest China's Xinjiang region. Picture: AFP
CHINESE state media reported Thursday that 50 people, including 40 assailants, were killed in a series of explosions over the weekend in the far western region of Xinjiang, in what officials called a severe terror attack.
Regional authorities had earlier said that the explosions Sunday in Luntai county killed at least two people and injured many others.
The news portal Tianshan Net said bombs exploded at two police stations, a produce market and a store.
It said the attack killed two police officers, two police assistants and six bystanders, and that 54 others were injured.
It said police took swift action and 40 assailants were either shot dead or died in explosions.
Police captured two attackers, and an investigation found that Maimaiti Tuerxun, a man who was fatally shot, was responsible for the attack, the news portal said.
The official Xinhua News Agency spelled the man’s name as Mamat Tursun. Names for people from the Uighur and other ethnic groups in China are sometimes transcribed differently in English.
Armed ... Chinese paramilitary police march past the site of an explosion outside the Urumqi South Railway Station in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region in May. Picture: APSource:AP
Ethnic tensions in Xinjiang, home of the Muslim Uighur minority group, have killed more than 300 people in the past year and a half.
Chinese authorities have blamed the unrest on foreign-influenced terrorists seeking a separate state.
Many Muslim Uighurs bristle under Beijing’s heavy-handed restrictions on their religious life and resent the influx of the Chinese Han majority into their homeland.
On Tuesday, a court gave a life sentence to a Uighur scholar who has criticised China’s ethnic policies and sought to reduce tensions between Uighurs and the Han majority.
The court found Ilham Tohti guilty of separatism, saying he incited ethnic hatred and instigated violence.
Authorities have also launched a one-year crackdown on terrorism in Xinjiang, and Chinese state media applauded Ilham Tohti’s guilty verdict as a victory in that campaign.
Scholars and human rights advocates say the strike-hard campaign could further radicalise the Uighur people and result in more violence.
A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. Find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out.
News Limited Copyright © . All times on this site are AEDT (GMT +11).