2014-07~09
http://blogs.tribune.com.pk/story/23227/has-china-really-put-a-ban-on-fasting/

Has China really put a ban on fasting? – The Express Tribune Blog

While non-Muslim countries don’t have relaxed working hours in Ramazan by law, I was still offered flexible working hours according to my Ramazan schedule in China and a small corner to offer prayers. PHOTO: REUTERS
Over the last few days, my Facebook timeline (that has incidentally become a conduit of current affairs knowledge for a lot of people these days) has been filled with people posting news about the ban on fasting in China. Consequently, a lot of my friends are asking me if this is really true, and if I am barred from fasting as well. These questions need to be appropriately answered.
To set the record straight, this ban on fasting is not a blanket ban for all Muslims across China. In fact, there hasn’t been any official communication from the federal government to enforce this ban. The only point where this ban is seen being implemented is in certain schools of the Xingjian province; these schools have posted the following guidelines regarding Ramazan on their websites:
“Students shall not participate in religious activities; and no parent or others can force students to have religious beliefs or partake in religious activities,” the statement read on the website of the grade school in Ruoqiang County.
Some officials in Xinjiang province have quoted anonymously that no such ban has been officially enforced. Also, most Muslims in the region, with whom I have spoken, have mentioned that they faced no such obstruction in fasting and neither have they been prohibited or reprimanded. It is also pertinent to note that despite this news being quoted in global media, there is no official directive from China’s state media agency, Xinhua, to substantiate the claim.
The reason given by these schools is that fasting is detrimental to the physical well-being of young students, who should eat regularly. However, this is not the only reason.
The Xinjiang province is a Muslim majority area and in recent years the separatist movement of East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) has been quiet active there. The region’s economic backwardness has helped fan such movements and find it easier to recruit disillusioned youth.
This group has upped the ante for separation and has attacked governments and civilians in terrorist activities, trying to make its mark. It was under them that terrorist attacks took place this year in major cities of the province, killing scores of civilians.
Obviously, this has caused the central government to tighten security in the region. This separatist movement is something Beijing is not willing to tolerate, especially if it’s fermenting on religious grounds. Also, the government has announcement development packages and projects to engage more people in economic activities to deter them from recruitment with such outfits. Religiosity is the last thing the government wants.
It is important to understand that China itself is an atheist, secular society and the state does not promote any faith. Culturally, over the centuries, Chinese society has been guided by Confucius’ teachings. This gives the society a very pluralistic outlook and allows the coexistence of other beliefs like Islam, Buddhism, Taoism and the likes to cultivate in patches across the huge country. The state always separates religion from academic activities and there is nothing about religion in their curriculum. Therefore, this ban is not entirely unprecedented.
Have I experienced this ban as a Muslim in China?
So far, there is not a single Muslim, be it a foreign or Chinese national, whom I have heard to have been unable to observe fasting due to this so-called ban.
While lots of people have jumped to conclusions without enough information, I can share my own rather pleasant experience of living, travelling and working in different cities within China over the last two and a half years.
My first trip to an old, but well maintained, mosque here was a surprising one. The mosque turned out to be the perfect hub for social networking with fellow Pakistanis, who were here in China for their studies, business and work. Even though the mosque was located downtown where there were many high rise buildings and shopping malls, the government did not displace this mosque. The government has respected its significance.
As if I wasn’t already surprised enough with the congregation for Friday prayers, Eid prayers were an even bigger eye-opener for me. There was a large arrangement for the prayer area, with the main road adjacent to the mosque sealed off to accommodate more people. Dominated mostly by the Uighur Muslims, it was a heart-warming experience to see such a large Eid congregation in a foreign country.
Besides this, there have been certain instances that have made me understand China’s stance on religion much better. Though most people around me don’t understand what halal food is, they always respect my beliefs and are careful about it when it comes to choice of food while eating out with me. Also, non-Muslim countries don’t have relaxed working hours in Ramazan by law but I was still offered flexible working hours according to my Ramazan schedule; I was also given a small corner to offer my prayers.
What else could we expect in terms of religious tolerance and freedom from a secular country?
Now, pause for one second and think of what we do in our own country with minority sects and non-Muslims. Is there a difference? Every other day, Pakistan’s news is filled with stories of intolerance, bigotry and shame.
A ban of this kind, if it really is in place is definitely not going to endear the government to the local Muslim population and should be condemned. Regardless of that, before we start blowing our “holier than thou” trumpets, I think it is important we learn about religious tolerance ourselves.
After all, we are followers of the religion of peace and submission, shouldn’t we practice what Islam preaches? Looking at the state of our own affairs, can we really point at others when our own house is burning?
Malaysia’s highest court ruled that non-Muslims cannot use the word ‘Allah’ to refer to God.
Non-Muslims are not allowed to eat in public during Ramazan in many Muslim countries.
Which countries do you think need a lesson in religious tolerance, secular nations like China or the numerous intolerant Muslim countries around the globe?

An expat currently based in Shanghai. He has lived, worked and traveled in different cities within China in last 2 years. He has interest in business, tech, and national and international politics. He tweets @SFarazNaseem (twitter.com/SFarazNaseem)

The views expressed by the writer and the reader comments do not necessarily reflect the views and policies of The Express Tribune.

The thing is that the secular already say that Islamic state is intolerant. They speak about this on almost all forums. But his time when a secular state has done something against religious freedom(even that of a single person), why are they saying anything now.
This is just another proof how a secular state is much worse as it relies totally on the whims and desires of human beingsRecommend
WOW! Sycophancy towards China is deep rooted in the hearts every Pakistani.
China is secular? Seriously? Do you even know the meaning of being secular? Atheist does not mean secular.
So, you don’t know the difference between secular and atheism and you are a conduit of current affairs?
Banning on fasting is unnecessary, so is banning non Muslims from eating in public places.
And you Pakistanis dare question the ban on cow slaughter?
By the way, Halal way of slaughter is extremely inhumane because it is very slow and painful.
A cow bleeds for close to an hour before it dies.Recommend
“The region’s economic backwardness has helped fan such movements and find it easier to recruit disillusioned youth.” why these disillusioned fools found only among muslims and not in other religionsRecommend
Cool young man, as brave and intelligent as a Chinese! Wish you all the best.
It is laughable to see some westerners who don’t know how to manage their own business and therefore choose to destroy other’s as their job.Recommend
Dear Faraz Naseem,
Now when you have visited China, set sails for the West. This will broaden your horizon on Secularism.
“secular nations like China or the numerous intolerant Muslim countries around the globe?” I’m absolutely cracking up! The Muslim countries you are referring to is the Middle East. Majority non-Muslims go there either to visit or for employment. They don not LIVE there while in East Turkistan, Muslims belong to that land. Wrong comparison!Recommend
Eye opener! Thankyou for providing this information and helping avoid unnecessary resentment amongst MuslimsRecommend
excellent write up..its problem these days tht we muslim demand alot but in return are not ready to show any tolerance…sadly this is not wht Islam is about..Regards..Recommend
One should not forget the infamous clause in pakistani consitution which bars Ahmadiyya community to give call for prayer ( Azan), call their worship place as mosque, pose as a Muslim. There have been incident in which Ahmadiyya community were booked under law by just reciting the first Kalima, and Kalima have been erased from their mosques by force.
Yet Chinna is anti-religious state and Pakistan is the Great Islamic Republic of Pakistan.Recommend
Xinjiang East Turkistan province a Muslim country in china must keep Islam Live strong & prosperRecommend
Ok so it is not as bad and widespread as it initially seemed, thank you for informing us.
But cases where it is happening, it is wrong; that you should have acknowledged. You cannot try to justify the schools’ actions because it is ‘not part of curriculum to be religious’ etc etc; professors forcing students to eat lunch with them in opposition to students’ religious beliefs is shameful and unjustifiable, wherever in the world and whatever religions involved.
But of course – everywhere in the world today, our particular religion is one which it is always justified to act shamefully against.
Good to see your experiences and remainder of Chinese society has been good in this regard, so far.Recommend
Go read the science and the ecg reports on the method . After you’ve done that then comment on the way of slaughter prescribed by Islam.Recommend
So a religious mind follows a rule? Is that why Muslims slit the throats of Muslims all the time?
When Pakistan killed Bangladeshis, was it driven by non-secular religious mind.
I think Pakistanis should stop thinking and ask Indians all the time about what you should do.
Science is a vast subject. It includes physics, mathematics and also chemistry among more profound subject.
I don’t want this discussion to move towards halal and non-halal.
If you want to really understand the cruelty of Halal killing, here is something for you:
If there had been an Ahmediya country, I am sure they would ban Muslims to pose as Ahmediyas.Recommend
Great work undoubtly! Added so much information to my knowledge bank. Best of luck for your present and future! Recommend
Brother…when you slaughter it cuts your main artery which brings blood to brain..Once the brain doesn’t receive blood you do not feel pain. Its simple Neuroscience…!!!!Recommend
I think the histroy has witnessed that most of the wars where done for Power and religion was just a mean…Like Indian is killing innocent Kashmirs every day ..they have done Genocide in the name of Hinduism but acutally they just have lust of more power…Is this wht we shud learn from Indians…??? U commit Genocide…!!!!Recommend
Good work Faraz, keep writing such sane and refreshing article. Khuda Hafeez.Recommend
Cool young man, as brave and intelligent as a Chinese!
I hope you are being sarcastic, literally dying (jumping out the windows to commit suicide so much so that all the factory has safty nets to catch the falling victim) assembling iphone for $1 a day and making nike shoes in sweat shop doesn’t make one brave and intelligent.Recommend
If one insists on keep acting shamefully,one will be acted shamefully against.Recommend
It’s like your yard is rotting and you are complaining about someone else’s yard that it has some dry leaves on it?Recommend

This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, redistributed or derived from.
Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2016 The Express Tribune News Network.
Technical feedback? 

