2014-07~09
http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/world/archives/2014/09/18/2003600006

Uighur academic’s trial for separatism opens in Xinjiang - Taipei Times
A high-profile Uighur academic and government critic yesterday denied allegations that he engaged in separatism as he went on trial in Xinjiang, where authorities say terrorists are seeking an independent state.
Ilham Tohti, a former economics professor in Beijing, is accused of fanning ethnic hatred and advocating the overthrow of Chinese rule in Xinjiang.
His supporters say he is a moderate who has sought a middle road in resolving the region’s ethnic tensions and that his critiques of Chinese policy have always stayed within the law.
One of his lawyers, Liu Xiaoyuan (劉曉原), said Tohti denied the allegations in court.
“He’s against separatism,” Liu said during an afternoon pause in the court proceedings. “He has only talked about some of the legal and cultural issues of Xinjiang. He’s against splitting the country.”
Tohti’s trial, being held under tight security at the Urumqi People’s Intermediate Court, was expected to last two days, but it was not clear when a verdict would be announced. Foreign journalists were not allowed inside, court officials announced no details and the court’s telephone number rang unanswered.
Police formed a several-block perimeter around the venue with tape, keeping away journalists, bystanders and several Western diplomats who traveled to Urumqi in attempts to witness the trial.
Liu said Tohti appeared in casual clothes and was not wearing handcuffs. Four of his family members — including his wife, Guzulnur — were allowed to attend the proceedings.
“He’s never done anything illegal,” Guzulnur said during the afternoon break. “He’s never talked about separating the country. He’s never opposed the government. He’s never opposed the people. He’s a scholar.”
She said her husband’s health was not good. Previously, another of Tohti’s lawyers, Li Fanping (李方平), had said the academic was shackled for more than a month while in lockup.
EU diplomat Raphael Droszewski said the EU has expressed its deep concern over the indictment of Tohti and that the bloc has “urged China’s government to release him and offer health care,’’ noting that he had worked “peacefully within China’s laws.”
Tohti has long been a critic of what he has called the systematic exclusion of Uighurs from the economic benefits brought to Xinjiang by incoming members of China’s Han majority, and has sought to prevent the Turkic Uighur language and culture from being marginalized.
He was arrested in Beijing earlier this year amid an uptick in violence in Xinjiang.
Comments will be moderated. Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned.