2014-07~09
http://www.vanguardngr.com/2014/07/dozens-killed-injured-terror-attack-china/

Dozens killed, injured in terror attack in China - Vanguard News
A Nigerian newspaper and Online version of the Vanguard, a daily publication in Nigeria covering Niger delta, general national news, politics, business, energy, sports, entertainment, fashion,lifestyle human interest stories, etc
BEIJING (AFP) – Dozens of people were killed and injured in a “terrorist attack” in China’s far western Xinjiang region, home to the mainly Muslim Uighur minority, state media reported Tuesday.
“A gang armed with knives and axes attacked a police station and government offices” in Shache county early Monday, the official Xinhua news agency said, citing local police.
“Dozens of Uighur and Han civilians were killed or injured” when some moved to a nearby township, attacking civilians and smashing vehicles, the report said.
“Police officers at the scene shot dead dozens of members of the mob,” it added.
The attack came on the eve of Muslims in China marking the Eid festival at the end of the fasting month of Ramadan.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the exile World Uyghur Congress, an exile group, said in an e-mail that more than 20 Uighurs were shot dead by armed authorities while 10 were injured.
A total of 13 Chinese security personnel were killed and injured, he said citing what he described as a local source, and about 67 people were arrested.
UNICAF has partnered with the University of South Wales, UK to offer more opportunities to students from Africa. The new...
With the February 2016 inflation figure of 11.4 per cent, the highest in three years, Nigeria’s economy would now be gra...
Let me quickly credit the Kaduna State Governor Mallam Nasir el Rufai with the ingenuity of this headline.
Nigerians’ taste for foreign goods has been the bane of the economy. Many prefer goods and services from abroad to local...
NIGERIANS are yet to comprehensively assess the implications of the June 12, 1993 Presidential Elections annulment. One...
I AM a diehard opponent of bringing past military leaders back to preside over our democratic dispensation. Apart from t...
NOTE: This article was written on March 8, 2016, two weeks after it was announced that President Buhari had agreed to or...
It is regrettable, that the absence of a more salutary impact from partial implementation of earlier budgets, has seriou...