2014-07~09
http://www.ohiostandard.com/index.php/sid/225970905

Six held for serial blasts in China's Xinjiang province - Ohio Standard
• The blasts struck at least three locations in Luntai County in the region's south on Sunday, including a shopping area
• The bombings came ahead of a verdict in the trial of Ilham Tohti, a scholar from the region.
• The United Nations, the EU and US have all called for his release.
BEIJING - At least two people were killed and dozens injured in a series of explosions in China's Xinjiang province, state media reported Monday.
The blasts hit at least three locations in Luntai County in the region's south on Sunday, including a shopping area, the Xinjiang government's Tianshan web portal said.
Six people were detained by police, said the website controlled by the government of Xinjiang in northwest China.
The blasts are the latest in a series of attacks across the country that authorities have blamed on ethnic minority Uighur separatists.
The bombings came ahead of a verdict in the trial of Ilham Tohti, a scholar from the region.
President XI Jinping is overseeing a nationwide crackdown against alleged Uighur terrorists.
The verdict in the trial of Tohti, an economics professor who taught at Minzu University in Beijing, is expected this week. He is charged with promoting separatism in Xinjiang, where about 45 percent of the population are Uighurs.
Tohti ran a website called Uighur Online which carried discussions of China's Xinjiang policies, where Uighurs face restrictions on their personal and religious freedoms. He has been in custody since January and was charged in July with "splitting the country".
Tohti faces a possible life sentence, Li Fangping, his lawyer, said last week.
Tohti had condemned the government's response to a suicide attack in Beijing's Tiananmen Square carried out by three Uighurs last year. The United Nations, the EU and US have all called for his release.
Xinjiang has seen rising tensions between the local Muslim Uighur population and Han Chinese settlers. Violence has increased in recent months, with deadly attacks on civilians in Urumqi and the southern city of Kunming.
In July, dozens were killed and injured in violence at police and government buildings near the city of Kashgar.
Two days later, the imam of a mosque in Kashgar, the largest mosque in China, was killed in an apparent targeted attack.
The Tianshan news portal said those injured in Sunday's blasts had been taken to hospital and "local social order" had been restored, without giving further details.
On Sunday, state media had reported that 17 police officers and officials had been punished over the two incidents in July, though it did not specify how.
The July violence near Kashgar, in Yarkant county, left 96 people dead, state media said.
China blames the unrest on Uighur separatists inspired by overseas terror groups, but activists say Beijing's repressive policies in the region are fuelling violence.
Tucson - Donald Trump's campaign in Arizona is centered on his hard line against illegal immigration, a stand that supporters embraced in a series of tense rallies ahead of Tuesday's presidential primary in the border state.
"Illegal immigration is gonna stop," Trump said in Tucson on Saturday. "It's dangerous," he said. "Terrible."
Both in Phoenix and Tucson, Trump was introduced by former Arizona Governor Jan Brewer, who pushed tough immigration laws in office and Joe Arpaio, the Maricopa County sheriff who made his name by chasing down people who are in the country illegally. The county includes Phoenix and nearly two-thirds of Arizona's population.
Protesters showed up at every event. They blocked the main road in Phoenix into his outdoor rally for several hours before it started. In Tucson, they interrupted him and some were tossed from the event.
Police said earlier that about half a dozen people were arrested at the Arizona rallies, including two on misdemeanor charges of assault. It was not clear how many were protesters or Trump supporters.
Trump was campaigning in Arizona ahead of Tuesday's primary in which the winner will take all 58 delegates at stake.
Trump's main rivals, Texas Senator Ted Cruz and Ohio Governor John Kasich, are desperately trying to prevent the real estate mogul from accumulating the 1 237 delegates needed to secure the nomination at the party's national convention in July. They are hoping for a contested convention in which delegates would be free to turn from Trump if he fails to win a majority on the first ballot. Trump has won 678 delegates in contests held thus far, according to an AP count. Cruz is in second place with 423 delegates and Kasich is in third with 143.
His rivals hope to offset a likely Trump win in Arizona on Tuesday with a strong showing in the Utah caucuses. Limited polling shows Cruz leading in the state where Mormons account for two-thirds of the state's 3 million residents. Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential nominee and the Mormon faith's most visible member, said he intended to vote for Cruz in the caucuses, but stopped short of endorsing the Texas senator, an uncompromising conservative.
However, Utah's delegates will be distributed proportionally based on the percentage of votes - unless a candidate gets more than 50% - which would give that person all 40 delegates.
In Arizona, Trump treated the latest protests with a mix of pacifist rhetoric and a mocking tone. "We love our protesters, don't we -" he asked. As security removed one or more, he said: "We want to do it with love," then added bitingly, "Get 'em outta here."
Arizona Democrats also vote on Tuesday and contender Bernie Sanders campaigned Saturday at the US-Mexico border in Nogales.
Standing in front of a tall, steel fence that divides the two countries, the Vermont senator promised to keep immigrant families together by taking more steps than President Barack Obama has done to protect many from deportation. Sanders called Arpaio a bully and he bemoaned the "divisive, bigoted and xenophobic comments of people like Donald Trump."
Former President Bill Clinton campaigned for his wife in Arizona on Sunday and Hillary Clinton planned rallies in the state on Monday.
OHIO, U.S. - The Sherwin-Williams company has announced its decision to buy rival U.S. paint ...
Cincinnati - Cincinnati Zoo officials say five cheetah cubs born after a rare C-section procedure ...
Tucson - Donald Trump's campaign in Arizona is centered on his hard line against illegal ...
Beijing - Roller-coaster riders at one of Beijing's major amusement parks were left hanging upside ...
RAVENNA, Ohio (AP) - A 20-year-old kayaker whose body was found by searchers on Sunday ...
Get the latest Ohio Standard headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Ohio Standard - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved