2014-07~09
http://www.ipolitics.ca/2014/07/17/beijing-tightens-its-grip-on-the-muslim-heartland/

Beijing tightens its grip on the Muslim heartland – iPolitics
Much to Beijing’s delight, the United States’ footprint in Central Asia gets lighter by the day.
Washington’s retreat from the region passed a significant milepost a few days ago when American forces handed back the Manas Air Base to the Kyrgyzstan government. This has been the key base for refuelling aircraft and ferrying troops in and out of Afghanistan since the 2001 invasion. About 98 per cent of American military personnel deployed to Afghanistan passed through Manas.
Beijing, however, saw the Manas base as an important link in what it considers a chain of American bases and alliances aimed at containing China’s rise. With the departure from Manas, the 2005 expulsion of U.S. forces from Uzbekistan and the imminent withdrawal of all but a token force of American troops in Afghanistan, Beijing can now look over its north-western horizon and see an endless land of opportunity.
China’s leaders have been working steadily at developing security and economic ties with the five Central Asian “stans” — Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan — since they emerged as independent nations after the collapse of the Soviet Union a quarter of a century ago. Since he came to power 18 months ago, that push has been accelerated by China’s president and Communist Party leader, Xi Jinping.
Much to Beijing’s delight, the United States’ footprint in Central Asia gets lighter by the day.
Washington’s retreat from the region passed a significant milepost a few days ago when American forces handed back the Manas Air Base to the Kyrgyzstan government. This has been the key base for refuelling aircraft and ferrying troops in and out of Afghanistan since the 2001 invasion. About 98 per cent of American military personnel deployed to Afghanistan passed through Manas.
Beijing, however, saw the Manas base as an important link in what it considers a chain of American bases and alliances aimed at containing China’s rise. With the departure from Manas, the 2005 expulsion of U.S. forces from Uzbekistan and the imminent withdrawal of all but a token force of American troops in Afghanistan, Beijing can now look over its north-western horizon and see an endless land of opportunity.
China’s leaders have been working steadily at developing security and economic ties with the five Central Asian “stans” — Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan — since they emerged as independent nations after the collapse of the Soviet Union a quarter of a century ago. Since he came to power 18 months ago, that push has been accelerated by China’s president and Communist Party leader, Xi Jinping.
Xi has taken advantage of Moscow’s weakening relations with Western Europe over the Ukraine to make a 30-year, $400 billion deal with Russia to supply oil and gas to China. In the long term this is unlikely to breed cozy relations between Beijing and Moscow in Central Asia, where Russia thinks it has continuing interests and influence. At worst, Russian and Chinese interests will collide in Central Asia; what’s more likely is that Beijing will emerge as the big brother in the region.
Even without a significant American presence in the region, Beijing’s concern for its own security is driving it to built strong relations with the Central Asian governments. Those security concerns begin at home in China’s far northwestern territory of Xinjiang, where the local people, the Uighurs, are close cousins of the peoples of Central Asia. They are also Muslims, and elements among the 8.4 million population use violent Islamic fundamentalist tactics in their pursuit of independence, and in revolt against Beijing’s efforts to erase their culture and religion.
Beijing needs good relations with Central Asian leaders to stop Uighurs from finding safe havens around China’s borders, and to block the smuggling of weapons and explosives.
Attacks by Uighur militants in recent years and months have become more frequent and more dramatic as Beijing’s efforts at cultural suppression, backed by the encouragement of settlement in Xinjiang by ethnic Han Chinese, have intensified. Until recently, most Uighur protests and terrorist attacks were confined to Xinjiang and its major cities, such as the capital Urumqi. Those continue, and in April two Uighurs detonated suicide bombs at Urumqi railway station while eight others attacked passengers with knives. In May, Uighurs rammed two trucks into people at an Urumqi market before crashing and exploding the trucks. Thirty-one people were killed and 94 injured.
The most high-profile Uighur attack outside Xinjiang happened in March, when five terrorists attacked people at Kunming railway station in southwestern Yunnan Province, killing 29. The first known Uighur attack in Beijing was in October last year when a man in a jeep rammed a crowd of tourists in Tiananmen Square close to the Forbidden City and the Zhongnanhai Communist Party leaders’ compound.
China’s claim to ownership of Xinjiang is just as tenuous as its reasons for occupying Tibet and its claim to strings of islands in the South China and East China seas. But Beijing sees Xinjiang, which makes up one sixth of China’s land mass, as an essential possession. Xinjiang contains the largest reserves of oil and gas so far discovered on Chinese territory, it has military significance as the testing ground for Chinese nuclear weapons and missiles, and it is China’s overland gateway to trade with Central Asia, the Middle East and, potentially, Europe.
Beijing has used both the carrot and stick approach to countering Uighur unrest. The softer elements in Beijing’s policies include such things as stimulating the economy and giving the Chinese Islamic Association the responsibility and resources for the upkeep of mosques.
But the repressive elements in Beijing’s approach predominate. On the cultural and religious side, all public employees are banned from wearing religious clothing or fasting during the holy month of Ramadan. Uighur members of the Communist Party are forbidden to engage in any religious practices. No Uighurs under age 18 are allowed to go to mosques or follow any religious rites. The study of the Koran is permitted only in state-run schools, and imams cannot give religious lessons in private. During this year’s month of Ramadan, which continues until July 27, all Uighur university students have been forbidden to observe the daytime fast on pain of being refused graduation. The Uighur language is being phased out in schools and universities in favour of Mandarin Chinese.
The harsher aspects of China’s control of the Uighurs are a network of police outposts in Xinjiang towns and cities, a mesh of some 40,000 closed circuit cameras watching the streets and highly visible 24-hour-a-day patrols by paramilitary police.
Even the attempts at boosting the Xinjiang economy tend to benefit immigrant Han Chinese rather than the Uighurs. Salaries for Han are higher than for Uighurs and the Han are vastly over-represented in high-paying managerial jobs.
In the short term, these policies of repression can stifle dissent, as they do in Tibet and among ordinary, disenchanted Chinese. But in the long run they are a recipe for evermore deeply embedded resentment against the Beijing government.
Jonathan Manthorpe has been a foreign correspondent and international affairs columnist for nearly 40 years. He was European bureau chief for the Toronto Star and then Southam News in the late 1970s and the 1980s. In 1989 he was appointed Africa correspondent by Southam News and in 1993 was posted to Hong Kong to cover Asia. For the last few years he has been based in Vancouver, writing international affairs columns for what is now the Postmedia Group. He left the group last year and now writes for a range of newspapers and websites. [email protected]
The views, opinions and positions expressed by all iPolitics columnists and contributors are the author’s alone. They do not inherently or expressly reflect the views, opinions and/or positions of iPolitics.

 Jonathan Manthorpe is the author of “Forbidden Nation: A History of Taiwan,” published by Palgrave-Macmillan. He has been a foreign correspondent and international affairs columnist for nearly 40 years. He was European bureau chief for the Toronto Star and then Southam News in the late 1970s and the 1980s. In 1989 he was appointed Africa correspondent by Southam News and in 1993 was posted to Hong Kong to cover Asia. For the last few years he has been based in Vancouver, writing international affairs columns for what is now the Postmedia Group. He left the group last year and now writes for a range of newspapers and websites. [email protected] 
 View all posts by Jonathan Manthorpe 
