2014-07~09
http://www.outlookindia.com/news/article/Xinjiang-Scholar-Gets-Life-in-Jail-for-Separatism-in-China/861139

Xinjiang Scholar Gets Life in Jail for Separatism in China
In one of the harshest penalties for advocating separatism in a decade, a leading Muslim Uygur scholar was today sentenced to life for instigating secession of the restive Xinjiang province from China.

The verdict by the Intermediate People's Court of Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang, deprived Ilham Tohti of his political rights for life and confiscated his personal property.

Tohti, 44, strongly denied the charges of separatism during the two-day trial that started last Wednesday, saying in a closing statement that "he loved his country" and that it was always his opinion that it was in the best interests of Uygurs to remain in China, his lawyer Li Fangping said.

The verdict against Tohti, known to be a moderate academic, was strongly condemned by the European Union which described it as completely unjustified.

"The EU condemns the life sentence for alleged 'separatism' handed out today to Uighur economics professor Ilham Tohti, which is completely unjustified," a statement released here said.

"Tohti has consistently, courageously and unambiguously advocated peacefully for greater understanding and dialogue between various communities, and with the state," Human Rights Watch said.

Xinjiang, bordering Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and Afghanistan, is experiencing a major conflict as native Muslim Uygurs numbering over 11 million are restive over the rising number of Han settlers marginalising them in their homeland.

In the last few years, the province has become a centre for many violent attacks as the al-Qaeda-backed East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) is heading a separatist insurgency.

The court heard that the former economics lecturer at Beijing's Minzu University of China spread lessons containing separatist thoughts through the website Uygur Online.

He coerced students to work for the website and built a criminal syndicate, according to the ruling, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.

Tohti organised the group to write, edit, translate and reprint articles seeking Xinjiang's separation from China.

The articles attacked China's ethnic, religious, economic and family planning policies, and incited ethnic hatred by distorting the causes of a number of riots and disputes that occurred in Xinjiang and Beijing, the court statement said.

It said using his website, Tohti encouraged fellow Uygurs to use violence. He colluded with foreign groups and individuals in hyping incidents related to Xinjiang with the aim of making domestic issues international.

Today's life sentence signals that amid the battle to contain Xinjiang's surging violence, there is no longer room in China for an outspoken moderate.

Political activist Wang Bingzhang was the last person to receive a life sentence for political speech when he was convicted in 2003.

Police authorities said in January a meticulous probe had proved that Tohti formed a separatist group and undertook clandestine separatist activities.

The sentence came two days after a series of explosions killed two people and injured a number of others in several locations in Xinjiang.
© Copyright PTI. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of any PTI content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without their prior written consent.
Recently army personnel were employed in building a pontoon bridge on the Yamuna in Delhi for an event of Sri Sri Ravishankar's Art of Living which will feature yoga and meditation sessions, peace prayers and traditional cultural performances from around the world. As the involvement of the army in the organisation of a personal event has drawn much flak, defence ministry sources have justified the move. They argue it is not the first time that the army has been engaged in building bridges for an event, and that it regularly built pontoon bridges during the Kumbh Mela.