2014-07~09
http://www.scmp.com/comment/insight-opinion/article/1602092/silencing-moderate-uygur-ilham-tohti-rash-measure

Silencing a moderate Uygur like Ilham Tohti is a rash measure | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Peace, stability and prosperity for Xinjiang depend on trust and understanding between the autonomous region's ethnic minorities and Han Chinese. The unexpectedly harsh sentence imposed on Uygur academic Ilham Tohti on separatism charges removes a prominent bridge-builder. Amid a rising tide of extremism, imprisoning and intimidating such a moderate voice is counterproductive. His silencing sends a message that Beijing is unwilling to listen to reasoned discussion.
Tohti was one of the few Uygurs willing to openly discuss the concerns of the ethnic group. He was charged with separatism, but he claimed not to want an independent Xinjiang, instead advocating greater autonomy and less repressive policies. But separatism was one of the issues discussed on his website, a forum for his economics students at a Beijing university to debate the region's challenges. No other ethnic Uygur on the mainland was as willing to talk to foreign journalists or be critical of government decisions.
Yet it was not actions but the content of the website that led to the separatism charges. Prosecutors said the articles "attacked China's ethnic, religious, economic and family planning policies, and incited ethnic hatred by distorting the causes of … riots and disputes … in Xinjiang and Beijing". Uygurs complain that they are not fairly treated by Han Chinese authorities, that their religious and cultural identities are being eroded, and that they are not benefitting from Xinjiang's economic development. An inability by authorities to adequately listen to, discuss and respond to concerns has led to frustration and the radicalism behind violence that since 2009 has caused hundreds of deaths; a further 50 died last week.
There is no excuse for extremism; President Xi Jinping rightly ordered a tough stand on terrorists during a visit to Xinjiang in April. There have since been frequent bombings and knife attacks and dozens of Uygurs have been arrested and sentenced, several to death. But Tohti was not involved in such outrages - he was merely one of the few Uygurs not afraid to raise the concerns of his people. For that he faces life in jail, confiscation of assets and permanent loss of political rights.
Beijing should not be sending such a message of intolerance to Uygurs. There has to be open and willing discussion of concerns. To silence moderates like Tohti is to invite not co-operation and ethnic harmony, but radicalism. An appeal has been filed; it has to be dealt with fairly.