2014-07~09
http://www.freepressjournal.in/pakistan-recalls-65-war-setback-on-its-50th-anniversary/

Pakistan recalls ’65 war setback on its 50th anniversary | Freepress Journal
Islamabad/Beijing :  Pakistan marked the 50th anniversary of the 1965 war with India by holding nationwide ceremonies and special prayers, while the Pakistani leadership vowed to “frustrate” any threat to the country’s existence.
The annual Defence Day celebrations began with a 31-gun salute here and with a 21-gun salute in provincial capitals. Across the country, a minute’s silence was observed in memory of nearly 4,000 soldiers killed in the war, with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif laying a wreath at the war memorial in Lahore. According to Radio Pakistan, numerous functions have been organised across the country, including at the army General Headquarters in Rawalpindi. Prayers were held in mosques for progress and prosperity and also included special invocation for the dead soldiers.
Strict security have been put in place across the country in face of the Taliban threat to disrupt the celebrations. In his message, President Mamnoon Hussain said: “In the successful Zarb-i-Azb operation, Pakistan Army has proved that any kind of threat posed to country’s security and existence will be frustrated. Pakistani nation and its armed forces can go to any extent in securing its borders and safeguarding its sovereignty.”
Prime Minister Sharif said: “The exemplary unity demonstrated by the political and military leadership in curbing terrorism is yet another splendid chapter of our national history.”
“We desire to have good and peaceful relations with all our neighbours on the basis of sovereign equality,” he said.
Meanwhile, the Pakistan Air Force presented a special aerobatics display over F-9 Park in Islamabad. The PAF has arranged an exhibition of aviation paintings and aircraft models at Nishtar Hall in Peshawar.
Chinese and Pakistani air forces launched joint drill by pressing in several contingents of fighter jets, bombers and early warning aircraft.               The joint exercise is part of a series of military exchange programmes between the two air forces, Chinese Air Force spokesperson Shen Jinke said. The two airforces deployed contingent fighter jets, bombers and early warning planes, Shen said. He however, did not say how long the drill would last nor disclosed the area where it is taking place.
The first such drill was held in Pakistan in March 2011, the second in China’s western Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region in September 2013, and the third was held in Punjab, Pakistan, in May last year.

« Previous Article
Historic Currey Road bridge gets a ‘sister bridge’ by its side


Next Article »
Government working on new land policy at 12 major ports

The Free Press Journal is one of the oldest English Daily newspapers from Mumbai with a heritage of more than 80 years. And yet, The Free Press Journal is a contemporary paper and rooted in current urban realities.


 
 
 
 Unless there is some hidden design behind it, the two-day deliberations of the BJP’s national executive meeting underlined a twin-track… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 Maybe it’s a problem of existing in our own ‘safety zones’—used these days as a synonym for ideological bubble. Maybe… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 If some medicines are found ‘harmful’ or even useless to consumers, the government or the apex drug regulator is within… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 Dr. Sanjay Deshmukh, vice chancellor of Mumbai University, speaks of the many paradigm shifts that are now needed. Shraddha Kamdar… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 A couple of years ago, we had published an article that essentially reproducted an email sent to us by valued… 

 Read more…  


Copyright © 2016 . All Rights Reserved. Maintained by Designwell Infotech