2014-07~09
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-07-31/prominent-uighur-scholar-faces-prison-in-china/5638260

Prominent Uighur scholar faces prison in China - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)
Prominent Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti faces trial on charges of separatism in a Chinese court. He was a critic of the Chinese government's policies in his home province of Xinjiang in Western China.
ELEANOR HALL: To China now where authorities have signalled they will try a prominent Uighur scholar on charges of separatism.
Prosecutors filed the charges with a local court in the western Chinese province of Xinjiang as Huey Fern Tay reports from Beijing.
HUEY FERN TAY: Ilham Tohti used to teach economics at a university in Beijing before police arrested him at his apartment in January.
He was a critic of the Chinese government's policies in his home province of Xinjiang in Western China.
Prosecutors there filed a motion with a court in the capital Urumqi, accusing Mr Tohti of separatism.
His friend, human rights lawyer Teng Biao, says it's hard to say when the case may be heard.
"He may be tried in a few months but it could be sooner or later," he says. "It's a political case so we don't know when the court will hear the case and issue its verdict."
Mr Tohti could face the death penalty if found guilty.
The charge comes amidst an anti-terrorism crackdown in Xinjiang after a series of violent and sometimes deadly attacks within and outside the province.
The Chinese government blames these incidents on extremists and a group called the East Turkestan Islamic Movement.
Mr Tohti's lawyer could not be reached for comment but human rights advocate Teng Biao believes the worst may not happen to Mr Tohti.
"He's a scholar, a respected human rights activist," he says. "The international community is paying close attention to his case so I personally believe there's a slim chance of him being sentenced to death."
His daughter is studying in the United States while his wife and one of his sons remain under constant surveillance in their Beijing apartment.
Another son, who's only seven, is living with relatives in Xinjiang after being traumatised by the sight of his father being taken away.
Tibetan writer Woeser saw Mr Tohti's wife and son recently at their home in the Chinese capital.
"His son is reluctant to leave the house because he knows he'll see those people if he does," she says. "So he stays at home, playing."
This is Huey Fern Tay in Beijing for The World Today.
For information on how you can help, visit abc.net.au/appeals or call 1800 811 700.
If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.


AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)
