2014-07~09
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/9643/20140910/china-offers-substantial-cash-rewards-for-terrorist-tips-in-xinjiang.htm

China Offers Substantial Cash Rewards for Terrorist Tips in Xinjiang : Society : Chinatopix
An open market in Urumqi, Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous region, where the deadliest attack in the region in 11 years killed 31 people in May. Picture taken May 25, 2014. (Photo : Reuters)
China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region is offering a substantial amount as reward for anti-terror tipoffs in its quest to battle terrorism and stop unrest in the area.
According to a Xinhua news agency report on Tuesday, Xinjiang's capital of Urumqi has announced that it will remunerate anyone who can advise the local government ahead of time about possible terror attacks in the area.
For the past few months, several regions and provinces in the country had encountered a series of attacks that was allegedly orchestrated by Islamist militants from Xinjiang, which has been dubbed to be home of the Muslim Uyghur Ethnic minorities.
A maximum of 1 million yuan, of US$160,000 awaits those who can provide reliable information about crimes such as involvement in terrorist groups, carrying out terror-inciting activities, raising and providing terrorists financial aid and hiding or transporting terrorist to avoid law enforcement.
The amount was calculated based on how much damage a crime could have caused and how significant the reported person involved in terror groups is.
Xinjiang has announced in August that the local government is prepared to pay over 300 million yuan in cash rewards for people who aided in the pursuit of suspected terrorists.
In July, authorities in south China's Guangdong province have offered up to $80,000 to people who fed tipoffs on potential terrorist attacks.
Aside from the money, informants will be provided necessary security as well as anonymity as their information will be kept top secret.
China is taking its regions' plight against terrorism quite seriously as many fatalities have been reported after several attacks in recent months.
In May, 39 people died in a suicide bombing incident at a crowded marketplace in Urumqi, bringing the terror-related attack death toll to over 200 in Xinjiang alone.
Uyghur groups and human rights advocates blamed the unrest on the current Chinese government's repressive policies that run counter to their freedom to practice their Islamic religion and Uyghur culture.
A predominantly Han-controlled Beijing continues to deny being repressive, as the ethnic minority group claims.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent rumors have emerged that Sacramento Kings All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins could finally move to the Los Angeles Lakers in the summer following his recent comments about the Hollywood squad’s young players after the two team’s recent game. read more