2014-07~09
http://www.dw.de/blasts-in-chinas-xinjiang-region-few-details/a-17938528

Blasts in China′s Xinjiang region, few details | News | DW.COM | 22.09.2014

State media in China's restive Xinjiang region say blasts have killed at least two people but have given few details. In the past year scores have died in tensions between mainly-Muslim Uighurs and security forces.


The communist-run Tianshan news portal said explosions happened at three places, including a shop, in Luntai county. It lies in a desert area 360 kilometers (220 miles) southwest of the western region's capital of Urumqi.

"Public security officers quickly handled the situation," the portal said, adding that an unspecified number of injured had been taken to hospital.

"Local social order is normal, and the cases are being investigated," Tianshan said.

On Sunday, state media said the Communist Party officials in Xinjiang had demoted or dismissed 17 officials and police officers for alleged failures relating to two incidents in July.

Tight security makes it difficult for foreign journalists to visit the region.

Exiled Uighur groups say the government's 
repressive policies in Xinjiang, including curbs on Islam, have provoked unrest, a claim denied by Beijing.

On July 28, the government said 37 civilians were killed and 59 alleged "terrorists" were shot dead by security forces in two towns in Xinjiang's far south.

On June 30, three assailants armed with knives and axes killed Juma Tayir, the imam of Xinjiang's biggest mosque in the old Silk Road city of Kashgar.
A city in China's Xinjiang province has temporarily banned people with veils, head scarves and long beards from boarding buses. Experts say attempts at repressing their culture are fueling violence and extremism. (08.08.2014)
  

A day after dozens of people were killed in clashes in China's restive Xinjiang region, the Uighur World Congress' Alim Seytoff tells DW Beijing's account of events intends to depict peaceful protesters as "terrorists." (30.07.2014)
  

China has executed eight people for "terrorist attacks," media reports say. Among those killed were three men accused of having masterminded a suicide car crash in Beijing's Tianamen Square in 2013. (24.08.2014)
  

Officers in Shenyang have killed three Uighur men who they say were Islamist militants. Activists have said that Uighurs are merely being discriminated against by a "hostile" government.
Chinese state media say an attack on food stalls in China's western region of Xinjiang has resulted in 15 deaths. Eleven of those killed were allegedly assailants tracked down by police.
A Chinese court has sentenced 12 people to death in connection with a July attack in the restive Xinjiang region. Roughly 100 people were killed in clashes between police and an armed mob in China's northwestern region.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
