2014-07~09
http://www.ecns.cn/2014/09-18/135127.shtml

Uyghur scholar stands trial for ‘separatism’ - Headlines, features, photo and videos from ecns.cn|china|news|chinanews|ecns|cns
Ilham Tohti, a former economics professor from the Minzu University of China, stood trial on Wednesday at the Intermediate People's Court in Urumqi, capital of Northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.
China's foreign ministry said on Wednesday that judicial organs in China will hear the case based on China's laws and the facts.
"The outcome of the case will not be influenced by one individual's viewpoint," foreign ministry spokesperson Hong Lei told a regular media briefing.
Liu Xiaoyuan, one of Tohti's attorneys, told the Global Times that Tohti defended himself in court and denied all charges.
"Tohti denied that he had incited ethnic hatred and said he was against violence," Liu said.
Tohti allegedly appeared in court wearing plain clothes without shackles.
Detained in January, Tohti is the founder of the website Uyghur Online. Earlier reports said Tohti recruited people to create rumors, distort and hype issues. Media reports said he had been arrested several times for instigation and "spreading rumors."
Tohti reportedly has a close relationship with the World Uyghur Congress, which advocates the "independence of Xinjiang."
Police said previously he has connections with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, an organization listed by UN as a terrorist group.
He also allegedly described mobs that took part in some terror attacks as "heroes" and incited his students during lectures at Minzu University.
His lawyers tried to move the case to Beijing but failed.
Originally from Xinjiang, Tohti currently holds a Beijing household registration permit.
"If a guilty verdict is reached, Tohti could face 10 years in prison to a life sentence," Liu said.
Former Uyghur convict sets out on trip to heal ethnic wounds
2 dead, 3,000 affected by floods in Southern China city
Copyright ©1999-2015 Chinanews.com. All rights reserved.
Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.