2014-07~09
http://news.iafrica.com/worldnews/951937.html

iafrica.com Dozens killed in Xinjiang violence

 The ANC's national executive committee rallied behind President Jacob Zuma amid allegations that the Gupta family has influenced ministerial appointments.


 A change in career can be a difficult move. However, if you successfully identify your transferable skills, it is possible to make a smooth and rewarding transition.


 World number one Novak Djokovic has indicated men's tennis should get more prize money than women because it has more spectators as a new controversy over equality in the sport erupted.

Hamilton, Rosberg to resume rivalryLewis Hamilton will renew his tense rivalry with Nico Rosberg as Mercedes looks to pick up where it left off...
Film Review: 'Divergent Series: Allegiant'After a dip in quality, 'The Divergent Series' returns with the third film. Does 'Allegiant' redeem the franchise? [Review]
Easter decadent dreams coming to lifeThe Velvet Cake Co. just let us know of the delicious treats they have on offer for Easter and the whole month of March.
Virtual reality's time is nowFrom gaming and movies to experiences that are almost too real, VR headsets are poised for a bumper 2016.
Plane crashes at airport, all on board dieAll sixty-two people on board a Boeing 737 died when the plane crashed at a Russian airport on Saturday morning.
Save on your insurance!Are you covered? Compare quotes for car, life and business insurance right now!
$ R15.25   £ R21.90   € R17.15Oil $41.43   Gold $1 245.42
Are you covered? Compare quotes for car, life and business insurance right now!
Chinese police shot dead dozens belonging to a knife-wielding terror gang in Xinjiang, state media said on Tuesday, in the latest bout of violence to rock the far western region home to the mainly Muslim Uighur minority.
"A gang armed with knives and axes attacked a police station and government offices" in Shache county early on Monday, the official Xinhua news agency said citing local police.
Some then moved to a nearby township "attacking civilians and smashing vehicles as they passed. Dozens of Uighur and Han civilians were killed or injured", the report said.
Local police called it an "organized and premeditated" terror attack, Xinhua said citing initial investigations.
"Police officers at the scene shot dead dozens of members of the mob," it added.
More than 20 Uighur people were killed by armed authorities while 10 were injured, said Dilxat Raxit, a spokesperson for the World Uyghur Congress (WUC), citing a local source.
A total of 13 armed Chinese personnel were killed and injured, he said, adding that about 67 people were arrested.
The Uighurs were "resisting China's extreme repressive policy" when they were met with violence, he added.
It is not unusual for there to be a time lag in the official reporting of such violent incidents in Xinjiang, especially when they involve clashes with police.
Beijing commonly blames separatists from Xinjiang for carrying out terror attacks which have grown in scale over the last year and spread outside the restive region.
Among the most shocking incidents was a market attack in Xinjiang's capital Urumqi in which 39 people were killed in May, and a deadly rampage by knife-wielding assailants at a train station at Kunming in China's southwest in March, which left 29 dead.
The violence has also included a fiery vehicle crash at Tiananmen Square, Beijing's symbolic heart, in October last year.
Rights groups accuse China's government of cultural and religious repression they say fuels unrest in Xinjiang, which borders Central Asia.
The government, however, argues it has boosted economic development in the area and that it upholds minority rights in a country with 56 recognised ethnic groups.
Beijing has suggested that extremists in Xinjiang are influenced by radical groups outside China, though many foreign analysts are sceptical, pointing instead to Uighur dissatisfaction as a more likely cause.
The latest reported violence in Xinjiang comes as China has launched a crackdown following the high-profile attacks.
"Uighur leader Rebiya Kadeer urges China to maintain restraint and stop systematic repression," Raxit said.
"She is worried that China will use this incident to strengthen repression and cause even more people to lose their freedom."
Kadeer, who leads the WUC, was once a wealthy businessperson but fell out with the government and was jailed before being released and moving to the United States nearly a decade ago.
Earlier this month Chinese courts in Xinjiang sentenced 32 people to prison terms ranging from four years to life for terrorism-related charges, state media reported.
In June, authorities executed 13 people, and sent more than 100 to jail in a public mass sentencing on mostly terrorism-related offences in Xinjiang.
In early July, government websites said China banned civil servants, students and teachers in Xinjiang region from taking part in fasting during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
China's ruling Communist party is officially atheist, and for years has restricted fasting in the region.
Several government departments posted notices on their websites banning fasting during Ramadan, which began in early July.
Xinhua, in a separate report, stressed that Monday's violence came the day before of the end of Ramadan.
"The attack is against the spirit of Ramadan, which is about the practice of self-discipline and self-control," the agency said.
"The rioters were committing blasphemy against Islam, 'the religion of peace'."
Please NoteBy commenting on this article, you are agreeing to the Terms and Conditions of the iafrica.com comments system.
The ANC's national executive committee rallied behind President Jacob Zuma amid allegations that the Gupta family has influenced ministerial appointments.
Read more ›
A change in career can be a difficult move. However, if you successfully identify your transferable skills, it is possible to make a smooth and rewarding...
Read more ›
World number one Novak Djokovic has indicated men's tennis should get more prize money than women because it has more spectators as a new controversy over...
Read more ›
Get daily local and international News, Sport and Business highlights to your inbox.
Tech savvy geeks and normal peeps chomp at the bits (pun intended) for their weekly fix!
All the hottest Entertainment News from around the globe in your inbox every week.
Get your weekly Lifestyle highlights sent straight to your inbox.
Rev those engines and subscribe to the Full Throttle weekly motoring newsletter.
All the latest Travel News in your inbox every week.