2014-07~09
http://www.worldbulletin.net/headlines/144417/china-raids-quran-schools-in-east-turkestan

China raids Qur'an schools in East Turkestan | Islamic World | Worldbulletin News
Chinese authorities in the autonomous region of Xinjiang have conducted a number of raids on Qur'an schools in the regional capital Urumqi, arresting a total of 35 people.
According to Chinese media sources, 190 children were 'rescued' from 26 'secret' Qur'an schools set up by and for the native Muslim Uighur community.
The raids come as China continues to crackdown on 'radical and separatist' groups in the region, which seemingly targets Uighurs who consider their homeland, which they call East Turkestan, to be under Chinese occupation.
Xinjiang has been troubled with increasing violence between ethnic Uighurs, who are a Turkic-speaking people, and Han Chinese settlers.
Uighur groups have blamed increasing tensions on the Chinese communist government, which has suppressed Uighur culture and religion in the region.
In the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, the local authorities outlawed fasting and forced Muslims to eat and drink during the day.
Religious education and public display of religion is also outlawed by the communist regime. 
According to newly released data collected in 11 countries with significant Muslim populations, views of ISIL group are overwhelmingly negative
Gentle hearted Saladin Ayyubi, was one of the world's greatest warriors - chivalrous, humane, agile, brilliant and courageous. On October 2nd 1187, 828 years ago yesterday, Jerusalem was liberated pushing back the surging wave of Christianity out to engulf the Holy Land.



 he conquered Jerusalem, pushing back the surging wave of Christianity out to engulf the Holy Land.
Muslims around the world have gathered in open parks and mosques, celebrating the Greater Eid, Eid ul Adha, known as the Feast of Sacrifice
More than two million pilgrims have gathered in the Arafat valley for a day of prayer, marking the pinnacle of hajj in Saudi Arabia.
For first time ever, Kenya is sending a record number 4,500 Muslims to Makkah for Hajj
Worldbulletin presents a photo essay of Muslims celebrating Eid ul Fitr around the world
Eid al-Fitr starts Friday in Turkey and lasts through Sunday.
Muslims gathered from across Saudi Arabia and the world to pray Taraweeh prayer on Ramadan’s 27th night
With the end of Ramadan approaching, shoppers in Ramadan hit the markets to do their food, clothing and gift shopping.
Knowing the correct time of the day for daily affairs is important and it is the inventions from Muslim scientists who have impacted current clock technologies.
Ramadan, the Muslim holy month of fasting, has begun and World Bulletin has put together pictures that showcases Muslims from across the Islam world during this sacred month.
In Addis Ababa, turnout at mosques was so high that main streets had to be closed to make way for worshippers
West Bank cities are being decorated to celebrate holy month of Ramadan with Ramallah lighting the biggest lantern for Ramadan
According to a report by Calico Mercato website, the amount will be used to develop mosques and Islamic centers in Florence province.
Quran prints that were written during the Prophet Muhammads lifetime are now on display at the Berlin State Library
Chinese police raided 148 points in Muslim Xinjiang in 2014
China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing'
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
