2014-07~09
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang:-Ilham-Tohti-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-32228.html

CHINA Xinjiang: Ilham Tohti sentenced to life imprisonment
Urumqi
(AsiaNews)
- The Intermediate People's Court of Urumqi
in Xinjiang found Uyghur intellectual Ilham Tohti guilty
of "separatism" and sentenced him to life in prison.

An economics professor at Beijing-based Minzu University, Tohti has strongly
denied charges of separatism saying in a closing statement that "he loved his
country . . . and that it was always his opinion that it was in the best
interests of Uighurs to remain in China".
Liu Xiaoyuan, one of his defence lawyers, announced that his client would appeal against the ruling.
Tohti
was arrested last January after
he criticised Beijing's policy following an
attack in Tiananmen Square in October
2013, blamed on some Uyghurs.
The
government's response to the attack was to boost
repression in the Xinjiang region.

For
years,
Tohti has called on the government to engage
in a real dialogue with the Uyghurs
and understand their difficulties. For this
reason, in 2005 he launched Uyghur Online, a website to improve understanding between Uyghurs and ethnic Han Chinese. However, according to his accusers, the website itself
was evidence of the academic's "separatism".
"Tohti has consistently, courageously and unambiguously advocated
peacefully for greater understanding and dialogue between various communities,
and with the state," said Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch.
"If this is Beijing's definition of 'separatist' activities, it's hard to see
tensions in Xinjiang and between the communities decreasing."
Tohti's
views are summarised in an
article by his friend Tibetan writer Tsering Woeser, published in
February shortly after his arrest.
"Ilham was only exercising his right to free expression, for which he
should not be imprisoned," said Renee Xia, international director Chinese Human
Rights Defender. "The government is trying to lay blame on him for recent
violent incidents and divert attention from its own policy failures that have
contributed to rising ethnic tensions."
AsiaNews spoke to Josephine, one of hundreds of Christians from Al-Hasakah, who spent a year in the hands of the Islamic State group. She talked about psychological suffering, conversion attempts, and separation from her male relatives. She survived thanks to her faith. Her mother Caroline, a Caritas official, is the only one in her family to have been spared the ordeal. She also negotiated their release with IS, and gave a Jihadi copies of the Bible. Now she hopes “to meet the pope” with her entire family.
Sister Rani Maria was killed in 1995, stabbed 54 times. The murderer was a radical Hindu, incited by village leaders, who wanted to stop the nun's activities in favor of tribal poor. The path "that led me to forgive Samunder Singh has not been easy, but now he's my brother." Instead, "my mother said once: 'I would kiss his hands, because on them there is the blood of my daughter'." The exchange of the Indian bracelet that celebrates love between siblings; the moment of encounter with the victim's mother.

 
2003 © All rights reserved - AsiaNews C.F. e P.Iva: 00889190153 - GLACOM®
Copyright ÂŠ 2003 AsiaNews C.F. 00889190153 All rights reserved. Content on this site is made available for personal, non-commercial use only. You may not reproduce, republish, sell or otherwise distribute the content or any modified or altered versions of it without the express written permission of the editor. Photos on AsiaNews.it are largely taken from the internet and thus considered to be in the public domain. Anyone contrary to their publication need only contact the editorial office which will immediately proceed to remove the photos.