2014-07~09
http://jewishbusinessnews.com/2014/07/11/research-center-china-recruiting-israeli-us-counterterrorism-experts/

Research Center : China Recruiting Israeli, US Counterterrorism Experts – Jewish Business News
-
A new university program will enroll 80 counterterrorism majors, who will become specialists in fighting the increasing threat of terrorist attacks in China.
-
China is inviting overseas counterterrorism experts to serve as visiting professors who will help train a new generation of anti-terror personnel, China Daily’s US website reported.
Mei Jianming, director of the Research Center for Counterterrorism at the People’s Public Security University of China, told the website: “The US and Israel have accumulated rich practical experience in fighting terrorism. The US is advanced in overall strategic research, and Israel is very proficient at tactical action in fighting terrorism.”
The People’s Public Security University will recruit leading counterterrorism experts from the US, Israel, Pakistan, Australia and other countries as visiting professors.
It will enroll 80 counterterrorism majors, who will become specialists in fighting the increasing threat of terrorist attacks, Mei said.
Various terrorist organizations have recently incited and organized attacks in China, according to China Daily, including in Beijing, the Yunnan provincial capital of Kunming and the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, and they killed and injured innocent people.
It’s interesting to note that official Chinese media coverage of the current clashes between Israel and Hamas in Gaza is clearly influenced by the fact that China, too, is under attack by terrorists, organized and otherwise. The official descriptions of the war in Israel are a lot less favorable of the Arab side than they used to be. For the most part, Chinese reports are informative, but largely technical and not opinionated. They report the mutual damage incurred, without the customary tearful adjectives regarding the suffering of Arab civilians.
“We urgently need to cultivate counterterrorism specialists to improve our preventive and terror-fighting capabilities,” university President Cheng Lin told China Daily.
Mei said that “the lessons and training will focus on intelligence gathering, investigating special cases, network information technology, technical and tactical anti-terror action and related international judicial cooperation”.
The 80 counterterrorism majors will have to meet admission criteria beyond what is expected of other students, Mei said.
“After passing the national university entrance exams, they will also go through physical and psychological testing,” he said.
Attention will be given to their physical training and endurance. They will learn to use a variety of weapons, including submachine guns and sniper rifles, he said.
After the four-year program, most of the 80 students will join counterterrorism departments in the Ministry of Public Security or in local public security units, he said.
China established anti-terrorism departments in public security agencies at national, provincial and municipal levels in 2001, but there was a shortage of specialists, Cheng said.
Hong Daode, a law professor at China University of Political Science and Law, said China should increase international cooperation because many terrorists have global connections.
Welcome to the club, China, we could use your help.