2014-07~09
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/jul/30/chinese-tighten-security-xinjiang-violence-uighur-muslim-minority

Chinese authorities tighten security in Xinjiang region after surge in violence | World news | The Guardian


Wednesday 30 July 2014 09.48 EDT


Last modified on Friday 15 January 2016 18.17 EST


Security tightened drastically across China's far western city of Kashgar on Wednesday, as the Uighur community disputed official reports blaming separatists for violence that claimed dozens of lives in the same part of the Xinjiang region on Monday.
Residents and travellers said that extra security officials poured into the city , roads were closed and internet access cut, as Reuters reported a possible stabbing death.
A French traveller told the news agency he saw a body lying in a pool of blood outside the Id Kah mosque in Kashgar on Wednesday morning, and two people with knives running away, but could not tell the cause of the violence.
He also described a long convoy of armed police vehicles, including at least five armoured personnel carriers, driving into the city while other cars were turned away. Several hotel staff and a Kashgar resident said some or all roads into the city had been closed or heavily restricted and internet access shut off.
Unusually, the Xinjiang government has yet to make an announcement about Monday's violence or publish a death toll. Calls to the Xinjiang and Kashgar information offices rang unanswered.
In a separate development, prosecutors in Xinjiang announced that they had formally charged the Uighur intellectual Ilham Tohti with separatism, meaning that he will soon face trial. He has been held since January and supporters say the case against him is retaliation for his outspoken criticism of government policy.
Monday's violence took place in townships around 125 miles (200km) from Kashgar, a day before the Muslim festival of Eid marking the end of Ramadan. Tensions had been high in the region, with officials urging party members, civil servants and students not to fast.
The north-western region has seen a surge in deadly incidents over recent months. The government says more than 200 people have died there in the last year, and attacks have spread to other areas.
Beijing blames separatists and religious extremists who want an independent East Turkestan for launching terror attacks, but rights groups and exiles say the Muslim Uighur minority are angered by religious and cultural restrictions, growing Han Chinese migration and economic disadvantage. They have also cited local sources saying some clashes at police stations began with anger over indiscriminate detentions.
China's official Xinhua news agency said the violence had begun on Monday when knife and axe-wielding assailants launched a "premeditated, masterminded and thoroughly planned" attack on a police station, government office and residents in two townships.
It said they first targeted Elixku in Shache county, also known as Yarkand, before moving on to neighbouring Huangdi township, attacking residents and burning cars along the way. Dozens of civilians died and dozens of the attackers were shot dead by officers, the report said.
But the Uyghur American Association, citing local sources, told the Associated Press that police killed protesters condemning "Chinese security forces' heavy-handed Ramadan crackdown … and extrajudicial use of lethal force in recent weeks".
It said it believed more than 20 Uighurs were killed and at least 70 arrested during the incident.
Citing local Uighur sources, Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress, an exile group, said the violence came when "Uighurs rose up to resist China's extreme ruling policy and were met with armed repression resulting in dead and injured on both sides".
Rumours of the violence in Shache first emerged on Monday, but Xinhua did not report the news until more than 24 hours after it happened.
An account by the Global Times, owned by the official Communist party People's Daily newspaper, said the assailants mobilised the attack after police security checks caught some of them carrying explosives. It added that they also sought to take bus passengers hostage.
An editorial on Tianshan, the Xinjiang government-run website, said: "The terrorists chose the day before Eid al-Fitr to carry out this attack, showing that they wanted to create an atmosphere of fear among the Muslim public and rampantly incite troubles. They deliberately tried to link the terror attack to religion, hoping to create a greater trouble.
"Party members, government officials and every member of society should be cool-headed and actively refute rumours. We should not believe, spread or be fooled by this, and we are determined to smash our enemies' plots."
The Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post said 22 attackers were shot dead and 41 were arrested, while at least 10 civilians died, citing local sources and a report from a local party conference. It added that an internal report said terrorists took over a bus to distract police before launching attacks elsewhere.
Last month, police said they shot dead 13 people who attacked a police station in Yecheng county, near Kashgar.
In April, three were killed and 79 injured in a knife and explosive attack at a railway station in Xinjiang's regional capital of Urumqi. The following month, 39 died and more than 90 were injured when an open-air market was targeted.
Security has been stepped up nationwide, with armed patrols taking to the streets of major cities and extra checks at locations such as subway stations in Beijing.
Xinhua news agency reports gang armed with knives launched assualts on two towns, attacking civilians and burning vehicles
Authorities in region accused of increasing tensions with Uighur Muslim population by imposing restrictions during Ramadan