2014-07~09
http://www.irishsun.com/index.php/sid/225991285

Chinese Uighur Scholar Sentenced to Life in Prison - Irish Sun
A Chinese court has convicted a prominent Uighur on separatism charges and sentenced him to life in prison, in a ruling slammed by rights groups as unusually harsh.
Ilham Tohti is an economics professor and strident critic of China's treatment of minority Uighurs in the far-west Xinjiang region, where unrest has killed hundreds in recent months.
Prosecutors argued during a two-day trial last week that Tohti promoted separatism and encouraged violence with his lectures, articles, and frequent comments to foreign media.
The official Xinhua news agency says the court ruled Tohti "spread lessons containing separatist thoughts" and "bewitched and coerced young ethnic students" as part of his efforts to "build a criminal syndicate."
Xinhua said Tohti was also found guilty of inciting ethnic hatred "by distorting the causes" of Xinjiang unrest. It said he "colluded with foreign groups and individuals in hyping incidents related to Xinjiang with the aim of making domestic issues international."
The 44-year-old academic firmly rejected the accusations, saying he was only trying to promote dialogue. His lawyer, Li Fangping, says he will appeal the conviction.
"As Ilham Tohti's defense lawyer, I think this is totally unacceptable. Ilham also said that he is innocent. He will definitely appeal. Based on the wording of the verdict, I think that this is extremely politicized," said Li.
William Nee, a Hong Kong-based researcher with Amnesty International, said there is no evidence Tohti was involved in separatism. He told VOA that punishing such moderate voices risks further enflaming the situation in Xinjiang.
"I think this is meant to send a message to Uighur intellectuals that if you advocate any policies that differ from the current Communist Party approach, you will be silenced. Ilham Tohti was of course known for pointing out many of the discriminatory policies with regards to employment, language, political participation and other things. And if other people feel like they can't in good faith discuss these issues, if there's no sort of channel for that type of grievance, then I fear that it will help radicalize more people because they will not see another path in front of them," said Nee.
Tohti, along with seven of his students, was arrested in January amid China's crackdown on violent extremism and dissent in Xinjiang.
He has written for decades about China's treatment of Uighurs and has been detained or harassed several times in the past because of his views.
In November, before his arrest, Tohti told VOA that plainclothes police rammed his car, took his phone and threatened to kill him because of his comments to the media.
His lawyers claim Tohti has also been subject to abuse while in detention, saying his feet have been shackled and that he has been kept from food for long periods of time.
In a statement, the European Union deplored what it called the "completely unjustified" ruling, saying Beijing had not respected the due process of law.
The EU has joined the United States and numerous rights groups in urging China to release Tohti.
by Muhammad Aamir SHARJAH, 21st March, 2016 (WAM) -- Shamma bint Sohail Faris AlMazrui, Minister of State for Youth Affairs, has put forward the suggestion of governmental interaction departments to enable two-way communication with the youth of the UAE.
"As a government, we face a big challenge and this is not just in the UAE but all around the world, which is getting information through social media and smart phones that poses another question for us, that is, 'what are the channels which we have to use in governmental communication to reach the youth?'. The answer to this question is important but what is more important is finding its solution. The practical solution is the two way communications, from the youth and to them," she said in her speech on the second day of the International Government Communication Forum, IGCF 2016, at the Sharjah Expo Centre.
She added, "We talk to the youth and do not listen to them, and we cannot blame the youth for not interacting with us if we do not spend the additional effort in the whole communication with them regarding the matters which are important to them. Perhaps reality soon will force us to change the names of the governmental communication departments to departments of governmental interaction and not just communication. This is the suggestion which I present today through this platform. Yes, youth wants departments of governmental interaction more than communication which is a one way path."
She thanked H.H. Dr. Sheikh Sultan bin Mohammed Al Qasimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Sharjah, for his keenness for youth and education, saying that Sharjah has one of the biggest academic complexes in the region. She said, "It is well known that education, science and knowledge enable youth, and open new horizons of the future for them. Therefore, we thank H.H. the Ruler of Sharjah for the role he played in changing their lives."
Present on the occasion were Sheikha Bodour bint Sultan Al Qasimi, Chairperson of Sharjah Investment and Development Authority, Shurooq, Sheikh Sultan bin Ahmed Al Qasimi, Chairman of Sharjah Media Centre, SMC, Mary Robinson, former President of Ireland (1990-1997) and former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (1997-2002), and Christopher Gardner, author and entrepreneur.
The Minister of State for Youth Affairs said, "Our leadership gives great attention to direct communication through all available channels within all sectors of the society, and of course under this belief is the necessity of listening to citizens and communicating with them.
"Vice President and Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, listens to everyone in society and asks for their opinions regarding matters which are important to them through different platforms.
"His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces also interacts with all sectors of society directly through his field visits. All our leaders are role models. They present to us the best example of interaction and communication with all sectors of society."
"H.H. the Ruler of Sharjah interacts with everyone and communicates with different segments of society, never hesitating to interact with them, even directly live on the radio."
She added, "At the UAE Youth Council, we are listening to the youth about matters which are important to them and we also encourage the youth in finding the best solutions for their issues. But in order to achieve this goal, we need our government speech to be two way, from the youth and to the youth.
"We need our speech and government communication to be modern, using the language of the youth. If we want to understand the youth, all of our governmental communication departments must open direct and diverse channels with them, and we have to be where they are, and communicating with them through the use of the same modern technology which they use, listening to their voices, opinions and aspirations, otherwise we would be left, in the words of H.H. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, 'Swimming against the currents'."
DONEGAL, Ireland - Several emergency response teams have gathered at the location of a tragic ...
CORK, Ireland - A man in his early 70s is said to have died on ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - Hundreds of passengers were left in the lurch after dozens of flights ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - Gardai have made another breakthrough in the probe relating to the horrific ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - A huge amount of money that was allocated by a European fund ...
Get the latest Irish Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Irish Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved