2014-07~09
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/11091532/Terrorists-behind-Chinas-911-sentenced-to-death.html

Terrorists behind ‘China’s 9/11’ sentenced to death - Telegraph
A female terrorist who helped to massacre 35 people outside a train station has been spared execution in China because she is pregnant, while three co-conspirators were sentenced to death.
Patigul Tohti was part of a gang of five masked attackers who slashed their way with long knives through a crowd outside Kunming railway station on March 1, in an attack that has been dubbed "China's 9/11".
She was the only attacker who was captured alive; she was shot by police but survived. The other four terrorists were all shot dead at the scene.
A defendant sits in front of police officers at a courtroom in Kunming City (Reuters)

Survivors recount scenes of terror dubbed 'China's 9/11' by state media


Kerry rules out Iran joining war against the Islamic State


Beijing assembles people's army to crush China terrorists with an iron fist

On Friday, a court found her guilty of murder and of being part of a terrorist group.
But the People's Daily, the official mouthpiece of the Communist party, said that she could not be given the death penalty because she is expecting a child.
It is possible, given the length of time since the attack, that Ms Tohti did not know she was pregnant when she took part in the murders.
Three other men, named as Iskandar Ehet, Turgun Tohtunyaz and Hasayn Muhammad, were ordered to be executed for helping to plot the attack.
Policemen investigate the scene outside the train station in Kunming (EPA)
Officials at Kunming’s People’s Intermediate Court gave few details about the defendants’ backgrounds but their names suggest they are members of the Muslim Uighur ethnic minority from the northwestern region of Xinjiang.
China has been rocked by a string of deadly attacks over the last 12 months that Beijing has blamed on Islamic extremists from Xinjiang.
A nationwide “people’s war” on terror was declared in late May following a deadly bomb attack on a market in Urumqi, Xinjiang’s capital, and a massive security crackdown has started in the sprawling border region.
On Friday, state media alleged that the Kunming attack was the work of an eight-member terror cell that had based itself in Shadian, a town in Yunnan province that is home to a large Muslim community and one of China’s biggest mosques.
The group was composed of six men and two women who had come “under the influence of extremist religious thought”, Xinhua, China’s official news agency, reported.
Three of the cell’s alleged members - Iskandar Ehet, Turgun Tohtunyaz and Hasayn Muhammad - were arrested on the eve of the attack on suspicion of planning to illegally cross China’s border into a neighbouring country.
The remaining five – three men and two women – reportedly rented a car and set off from Shadian with banners bearing extremist messages and their weapons.
They arrived at Kunming station on 9.12pm on March 1 and “wantonly attacked innocent people with knives,” Xinhua said.
In the immediate wake of the attack, 29 civilians were reported to have died. However, on Friday Xinhua said the final death toll was 31 suggesting two victims had subsequently died of their injuries.
A view of the courtroom in Kunming City during the trial (Reuters)
Witnesses described terrifying scenes as knife-wielding assailants, some wearing veils, began hacking at commuters.
“Two men were killed right in front of me, one had his throat cut, the other [was stabbed] in the chest. There was blood everywhere," Liu Guilin, a 28-year-old shopkeeper, told The Telegraph.
"He didn't wear a mask. He appeared to be quite calm," he said of one attacker. "He just placed his machete against people's throats and slit them, effortlessly."
The three men handed death sentences were those arrested in Shadian before the attack took place. They were convicted of organising and leading a terrorist group and murder.
At least 21 people have been executed since June for alleged involvement in Xinjiang-related terrorist attacks and other "violent crimes".

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
