2014-07~09
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2014/08/04/nearly-100-killed-in-violent-xinjiang-uprising-china-says/

Nearly 100 Killed in Violent Xinjiang Uprising, China Says - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
Chinese police gunned down 59 people and arrested 215 during a violent uprising last week in the Xinjiang region, the government said Sunday, in a statement that shed fresh light on what dissident groups had earlier described as a major clash in the area. As the WSJ’s James T. Areddy reports:
In coordinated predawn actions on July 28, unnamed assailants attacked civilians, state buildings and vehicles in two Xinjiang towns, including Elixhu, according to police descriptions reported by the government-run Xinhua news agency.
The agency said 37 civilians were among the 96 people who were killed during the attack. Sunday’s statement called the assailants terrorists and said the attack had foreign support.
The new figures, which emerged from a high-level meeting of the Communist Party over the weekend in Xinjiang, according to Xinhua, illustrate the seriousness of continued violence in China’s largely Muslim province of Xinjiang. The area abuts Central Asia and has seen minor clashes reported weekly.
The Xinhua report said assailants displayed banners declaring a “holy war” and were coordinated by a banned group called East Turkestan Islamic Movement that China’s government says aims to make Xinjiang independent. Sunday’s report said civilians were stopped at roadblocks and slashed with knives if they refused to join the rally.
The mastermind of the attack was Nuramat Sawut, the report said. Xinhua described him as the local leader of the movement and responsible in the past year for spreading audio and video calls for separatism and religious extremism. Mr. Sawut wasn’t reachable and Xinhua’s report didn’t say whether he specifically participated in the attacks.
The report didn’t say where overseas the group had obtained assistance, though in the past China’s government has cited training of separatists by religious extremists in Pakistan.
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

Saudi Arabia and the US are also buddies, but that didnt stop 9/11.
Although it did help us get away with it scott-free (Thanks uncle bush)
Pakistani involvement ? No way !!! China and Pakistan are buddies.
don't panic, Kens on the way with his automatic rifles and RPG’s
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
