2014-07~09
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/224299241

Uighur Imam, an Ally of China, Murdered Outside Mosque - China National News
An imam who was supportive of Beijing's controversial treatment of minority Uighur Muslims was stabbed to death outside the Xingjiang region's largest mosque.
Local officials and residents said 74-year-old Jume Tahir was attacked early Wednesday at the 600-year-old Id Kah mosque in Kashgar, the regional capital.
Tahir was a member of China's largely ceremonial parliament, the National People's Congress. He frequently criticized what he called "sabotage and secessionist" activities in Xinjiang, where hundreds have been killed in unrest in the past year.
Many Uighurs see the violence as a desperate response to the government's heavy-handed restrictions on Muslim religious life and its perceived preferential treatment toward the Han majority that have flocked to the region.
Beijing denies mistreating Uighurs - a stance that Tahir apparently agreed with. In 2009, he told China's official Xinhua news agency that Muslims' "lawful religious beliefs are fully protected."
The government had not commented on the murder of Tahir, which was first reported by Radio Free Asia. It occurred two days after fighting between a knife-wielding mob and Chinese police killed scores of people outside Kashgar.
The government and exiled Uighur groups have differing accounts of the clashes, as is usually the case with such violence.
The American Uyghur Association said the violence began when police attacked a group of protesters who were angry over religious restrictions during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, which ended this week.
Xinhua said an initial investigation has determined that the mob was a "premeditated terrorist attack."
Kunshan (China), March 21 (IANS) India were placed in a relatively easy group in the women's section but the men's team did not prove to be as lucky at the draw for the prestigious Thomas and Uber Cup Finals badminton tournament that was held here on Monday.
In the men's section -- the Thomas Cup -- the Indian team have been drawn along with 13-times winners Indonesia and strong contenders Thailand and Hong Kong China in Group B.
The women's team have been placed in Group D of the Uber Cup alongside Japan -- the runners-up in the last edition in 2014 -- Australia and Germany.
The tournament will be held here in Kunshan from May 15-22.
Meanwhile, Thomas Cup defending champions Japan and top seeds China found themselves in the same group as the draw. The two powerhouses were drawn in Group A alongside France and Mexico, ensuring that the starting stage of the finals itself should be an intensely competitive affair.
Second seeds Denmark, in Group D, were drawn along with Chinese Taipei, New Zealand and South Africa while Group C has South Korea, Malaysia, England and Germany.
In the Uber Cup competition, hosts and defending champions China will have to contend with European power Denmark in Group A. Their group-mates are Spain and Malaysia.
Group B consists of Korea, Chinese Taipei, Mauritius and USA, while Group C has Thailand, Indonesia, Bulgaria and Hong Kong China.
Sixteen teams each in the Thomas Cup and Uber Cup qualified for the final rounds based on their performance in the continental team championships and team rankings. The No.1 and No.2 seeded teams were separated in the draw by placing them at the top of Group A and Group D respectively. The other teams and corresponding group positions were then picked by the invited dignitaries.
The top two teams in each group will make it to the knockout stages. There will be another draw for the quarter-finals.

JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved