2014-07~09
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2014/07/30/Prominent-Uighur-scholar-charged-in-China-with-separatism/2221406736572/

Ilham Tohti, prominent Uighur academic, charged in China with 'separatism' - UPI.com
BEIJING, July 30 (UPI) -- On Wednesday, Chinese authorities formally charged Ilham Tohti, a prominent Uighur academic and economics professor at Beijing's Minzu University, with "separatism."
Tohti has been detained since January after Xinjiang police said they had evidence the professor was plotting with foreigners to "spread separatist ideas, incite ethnic hatred and advocate Xinjiang independence." Police say he had also encouraged students to overthrow the Chinese government, and taught them "violent Uighur resistance."
Tohti has maintained his innocence. His lawyer, Li Fangping, told CNN in June that his client "reiterated that he has advocated to improve the rule of law, democracy and ethnic harmony in Xinjiang."
While in detention, Tohti has lost 35 pounds. The prison at first refused to provide Muslim food, which prompted the professor to undertake a hunger strike for 10 days. In March, he was deprived of food after Uighur separatists killed 29 people at a train station in Kunming.
Xinjiang is an expansive area of China that was traditionally inhabited by the Muslim Uighurs, Kazaks, and some smaller groups. During the last two decades, however, there has been an influx of Han Chinese migrants Resentment against Han Chinese political and cultural domination simmers and sometimes erupts into violence. Tohti's academic focus is on Uighur-Han relations.
The formal charges come two days after a deadly terror attack in Xinjiang in which dozens of assailants were reportedly killed by police.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.