2014-07~09
http://www.livetradingnews.com/terror-attack-china-73463.htm

Terror Attack in China - Live Trading News | Live Trading News
Six civilians, two police officers and two auxiliary police were also killed in the attacks in Xinjiang’s Luntai county, with 54 civilians injured, the regional government’s news portal Tianshan said late Thursday.
Forty terrorists were killed in China’s far-western Xinjiang region after a series of coordinated explosions last Sunday, the regional government has said, with residents describing heavy security in place days after the violence.
Two terrorists were captured, it added, while the main suspect, whose name was given as Mamat Tursun, was shot dead.
The violence took place just two days before the sentencing of prominent Muslim Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti, who was on trial on charges of separatism.
Chinese state media had previously only stated that two people had been killed in the incident. The ruling Communist Party tightly restricts access to the restive region, and information is difficult to independently verify.
Such a delay in the release of details is not uncommon.
Staff at hotels in Luntai county contacted by AFP described a continuing heavy security presence.
“Security forces are still in the street,” said one receptionist.
A woman who answered the phone at another inn also gave an account of security out in force, and that business had suffered as “lots of people don’t come these days”.
Tohti, a former university professor who has been critical of Beijing’s policies in the vast western region, was sentenced to life in prison on Tuesday.
The United States, the European Union, and several human rights groups have called for the release of Tohti, 44, whose prosecution risks silencing moderate Uighur voices and cutting off the possibility of dialogue, analysts say.
Critics also warned his conviction could add to tensions in the restive region.
The Global Times, a tabloid run by the official Communist Party mouthpiece People’s Daily, said in a column on its editorial page that Tohti’s case should be seen as warning to anyone trying to break China apart.
“Chinese separatists must be fully aware of the red line drawn by the Chinese constitution and criminal law,” it said.
“Tohti could serve as a lesson for them to realise what price they have to pay if they continue their dangerous pace.”
According to the Tianshan report, the “organised and serious” attack comprised four explosions that took place Sunday evening, targeting two police stations, an outdoor market and a shop.
Among the 54 civilians injured were 32 members of China’s mostly Muslim Uighur minority and 22 Han Chinese, it said.
The 40 “rioters” killed had either blown themselves up or were shot dead by police, Tianshan said.
Police said that Mamat Tursun, the alleged ringleader of Sunday’s attack, had been “gradually developing into an extremist” since 2003 and had “called on other people to join his terrorist group when working on construction projects”, according to the official Xinhua news agency.
In the past year, escalating violence between locals and security forces in Xinjiang — the traditional homeland of the Uighurs — has claimed more than 200 lives and prompted Beijing to launch a security crackdown.
Among the most shocking attacks was a May assault on a market in the regional capital Urumqi, where more than 30 people were killed, and a deadly rampage by knife-wielding assailants at a train station at Kunming in China’s southwest in March, which left 29 dead.
Beijing blames ongoing unrest in the region on organised terrorists seeking independence from China, while rights groups say cultural and religious repression of Uighurs has stoked violence.
China’s supreme court on Sunday distributed new wide-ranging guidelines on prosecuting terrorism cases.
“Making and showing banners and other material of religious extremism will be criminalised,” the state-run Xinhua news agency said in a summary of the regulations.
The court also said that the use of insults such as “religious traitor” and “heretic” could lead to criminal conviction.
Xinjiang, a resource-rich region which abuts Central Asia, is home to about 10 million Uighurs, who mostly follow Sunni Islam.
Are You Consistently Killing The Markets? Before you trade…can you answer these 3 vital questions? 1. Who is in control of the market? 2. Where ...
Do you know what it means to Trade From Strength? Mario talks about positioning his trade day and the 3 questions he always asks himself ...
Get the Pennystock Hot List Free!! If you have made the decision to trade penny stocks, you’re crazy, there is no proper way to invest ...
Art Basel Miami: Buying Art as an Investment Buying Art as investment has become increasingly popular over the last few years, but how much of ...
Get your FREE 30-day trial of MetaStock! Why take advantage of this trial offer? MetaStock software and data is a powerful analysis tool that has ...
HEFFX Confident on the Growth of Blockchain Technology HEFFX, an early investor in Blockchain technology is confident that the implementation of Blockchain will continue across ...
Donald Trump Is Re-aligning American Politics A few weeks ago I told ...
China's Premier Stresses Agriculture Development Chinese Premier Li Keqiang has urged more ...
OMV, ADNOC, OXI To Explore Offshore Oil & Gas Fields Near Abu ...
Investing In Iran Is Still A Key "Uncertainty" Expect Iran will receive ...
Ferragamo (MI:SFER) Adds Microchips In Shoes & Handbags To Halt Counterfeits Counterfeits ...
Lionsgate (NYSE:LGF): Analyst Speculate On Whose Heads Will Roll $LGF Due to ...
The European Central Bank cut all its main interest rates expanded its ...
Eating Almonds Daily Is Healthy What you need to know about Almonds ...
US Home Sales Numbers Troubling For US Economy $DIA, $SPY, $QQQ, $VXX ...
Ferragamo (MI:SFER) Adds Microchips In Shoes & Handbags To Halt ... read more
The European Central Bank cut all its main interest rates ... read more
The Weekly Outlook For Gold & WTI Crude Oil $GLD, ... read more
Ferragamo (MI:SFER) Adds Microchips In Shoes & Handbags To Halt ... read more
Information and opinions contained on this page are for educational purposes only and do not constitute trading recommendations.
Trading OTC Forex on margin carries a high level of risk, and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to invest in foreign exchange or futures you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience, and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange and futures trading, and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts.