2014-07~09
http://www.cleveland.com/nation/index.ssf/2014/07/senate_confirms_bob_mcdonald_t.html

Senate confirms Bob McDonald to lead VA; Israel bombs high-profile Gazan targets; U.S., Europe impose new sanctions on Russia: U.S. and World News Links | cleveland.com
Register now for free, or sign in with any of these services:
The Senate confirmed former Procter & Gamble CEO Bob McDonald to lead the troubled Department of Veterans Affairs a day after negotiators in Congress agreed on a plan to bolster the agency. (Bloomberg Businessweek)
The 5th Circuit Court of Appeals today ruled in favor of Mississippi's last standing abortion clinic, ruling politicians cannot pass abortion restrictions that would shut the clinic down. (Huffington Post)
Jesse Ventura won his defamation case against an author who said he punched out the former Minnesota governor for criticizing the U.S. Navy SEALs' role in the Iraq war. (Minneapolis Star Tribune)
The pilot who made an emergency landing on a beach near Venice, Fla., on Sunday said he never saw the girl or her father walking along the beach before he accidentally hit and killed them with the plane. (Tampa Bay Times)
A three-hour whale watching tour out of Boston turned into an 18-hour overnight stay for more than 150 passengers when their boat became disabled after snagging a cable for a liquid natural gas offloading facility about 15 miles off the Massachusetts coast. (Boston Globe)
Former Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell and his wife Maureen mounted a deeply personal defense at the start of their corruption trial in Richmond on Tuesday, with the attorney for the former first lady saying a wealthy businessman whom she had a "crush" on took advantage of her. (Fox News)
President Obama is not getting impeached, but for several years, Republicans have been indulging and even encouraging that fantasy on the part of the more extreme edges of their base. (Washington Post)
The body of a young stowaway was found inside a compartment near the wheel well of an Air Force cargo jet that had landed in Germany, U.S. military officials said today. (Associated Press)
Israel knocked out Gaza's only power plant and pounded dozens of other high-profile targets today, while Egyptian mediators prepared a revised proposal for halting its war with Islamist militants in the enclave. (Reuters)
The United States and the European Union hit Russia with new sanctions today, as they escalated a major diplomatic battle with Russian President Vladimir Putin. (USA Today)
Militant fighters overran a Libyan special forces base in the eastern city of Benghazi today after a battle involving rockets and warplanes that killed at least 30 people. (Reuters)
Liberia President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf has closed most of the country's land borders, restricted public gatherings and quarantined communities that have seen Ebola outbreaks to try to contain the world's worst outbreak of the deadly virus. (Los Angeles Times)
Chinese police shot dead dozens belonging to a knife-wielding terror gang in Xinjiang, in the latest bout of violence to rock the far western region home to the mainly Muslim Uighur minority. (AFP News)
As fighting between militias loyal to the Libyan government and Islamist forces escalates, India remains diplomatically hard-pressed to ensure the safe return of close to 6,000 Indian nationals stuck in the strife-torn country. (The Times of India)
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy
cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved (About Us).The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.