2014-07~09
http://www.womenofchina.cn/html/womenofchina/report/175037-1.htm

Xinjiang Launches Campaign to Prevent Religious Extremism - All China Women's Federation
Xinjiang Women's Federation held a videophone conference on "reinforcing women's education and preventing religious extremism" in Urumqi, capital city of northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region on August 7.
The federation has decided to launch a one-year campaign starting from this August to educate women on preventing religious extremism.
Vice President of Xinjiang Women's Federation Wang Jianling delivered a speech during the meeting. She said that three evil forces of separatism, extremism and terrorism tried to manipulate religious people, including women, to achieve their vicious goal. Women's federations in Xinjiang should make efforts to maintain social stability and help the Government eradicate religious extremism. The federations should put an emphasis on reinforcing women's work in southern Xinjiang and unite the people from all ethnic groups to fight against the three evil forces.
According to the meeting, the women's federations will organize women's publicity teams to deliver education on women across Xinjiang. The southern part of Xinjiang will be the focus of this campaign. The federations will select some local women as good examples to promote the education.
Located in China's far west, Xinjiang has been battling separatism, extremism and terrorism for decades. About 41.5 percent of Xinjiang's 21 million population are Uyghurs, a largely Muslim ethnic group. Security experts say growing religious extremism in the region has fanned most of the violent attacks.
Please understand that womenofchina.cn,a non-profit, information-communication website, cannot reach every writer before using articles and images. For copyright issues, please contact us by emailing: website@womenofchina.cn. The articles published and opinions expressed on this website represent the opinions of writers and are not necessarily shared by womenofchina.cn. 
Copyright 2005-2014 All rights reserved. Women's Foreign Language Publications of China.  Email: website@womenofchina.cn