2014-07~09
http://www.firstpost.com/world/chinas-crackdown-in-restive-xinjiang-nets-400-suspects-1607591.html

China's crackdown in restive Xinjiang nets 400 suspects - Firstpost
#Arabic   #Argentina   #China   #Entertainment   #facebook   #France   #Japan   #Legal   #markets   #Mexico   #United Kingdom  
BEIJING (Reuters) - China has taken down more than 40 groups it calls "violent terror gangs" and arrested more than 400 people in its restive western region of Xinjiang since authorities began a crackdown in May, state media said on Monday.
The figures are the latest tally of China's efforts to rein in groups it says are responsible for a series of bloody attacks that Beijing blames on Islamists and separatists from the region, home to a large Muslim Uighur minority.
"Among those cases, public security bureaus received clues from the public in 10 cases, leading to arrests of more than 100 people, the confiscation of a batch of explosive devices, raw materials and tools," the Legal Daily, run by the ruling Communist Party, said.
Numerous pieces of religious extremist multimedia propaganda were also confiscated, the newspaper said.
On May 23, authorities launched a one-year campaign targeting what they called "violent terrorist activities", which followed a suicide bombing that month that killed 39 people at a market in Xinjiang's capital, Urumqi.
In March, 29 people were stabbed to death at a train station in the southwestern city of Kunming. Around 200 people have died in unrest in Xinjiang in the past year or so, the government says, including 13 people shot dead by police in an attack on a police station in June.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest, a claim Beijing denies.
Xinjiang, resource-rich and strategically located on the borders of central Asia, is crucial to meeting China's growing energy needs. Analysts say that most of the proceeds have gone to the Han Chinese, stoking resentment among Uighurs.
"China's political policies will lead to even more people facing unjust charges," Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the exiled group the World Uyghur Congress, said in an email.
This story has not been edited by Firstpost staff and is generated by auto-feed.
It's Raul, not Fidel: Barack Obama very unlikely to meet Fidel Castro, says White House
With Obama by his side, Castro denies the existence of political prisoners in Cuba
Kim Jong-Un test fires rocket launcher, vows to continue developing nuclear
My number one priority is to dismantle the deal with Iran, it is catastrophic: Trump
Mehbooba Mufti has to make up her mind: Arun Jaitley on Kashmir govt formation
Having lost his girlfriend to US-based Indian groom, Chennai man to do ferocious online campaign in support of Donald Trump
Never allowed David Headley to set foot on Pakistan soil, always rolled out Red carpet for him: Nawaz Sharif
ISIS to offer ESOPs to its fighters to counter rising attrition rate
Pakistan felicitates Hafiz Saeed for inspirational leadership after David Headley said Hafiz Saeed inspired him
Feel good factor revived, Achche Din look real after Donald Trump says, “India is doing great”
ISIS in favor of chess ban, asks supporters to play ‘offline CounterStrike’ instead