2014-07~09
http://jakartaglobe.beritasatu.com/terrorism/police-probe-possible-indonesian-terror-link-bangkok-blast/

Police Probe Possible Indonesian Terror Link to Bangkok Blast | Jakarta Globe
Three members of China's Uighur minority, Ahmet Mahmut, Altinci Bayram and Tuzer Abdul Basit (left to right), walk to the court room in Jakarta ahead of their verdicts on terrorism charges in July. The three were sentenced to jail terms of six years. (AFP Photo/Jefri Aries)
Jakarta. The National Police are looking into the possibility that an Indonesian terrorist network was involved in the deadly bomb attack on the famous Erawan  Shrine in the center of Bangkok on Aug. 17.
Gen. Badrodin Haiti, the chief of Indonesia's National Police, said his office was willing to assist Thai colleagues in finding out who was responsible for the bombing that left 20 people dead, including 14 foreigners. Seven of those who perished were from mainland China and Hong Kong and one Indonesian national was also among the victims. Over a hundred people were injured in the attack.
"We're ready to help, but they haven't asked us yet," Badrodin told news portal CNNIndonesia on Thursday. "We're waiting."
Badrodin said that his investigators had already started looking into the possible involvement of the East Indonesia Mujahidin (MIT) terror cell, which is led by Indonesia's most-wanted fugitive, Santoso.
Thailand earlier this year deported some 150 Uighur refugees to China, a move that Badrodin said was believed to have angered several terrorist networks.
"[The groups] include ISIS [the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria]. Some of them [supporters of the movement in Indonesia] have joined Santoso's group," Badrodin said.
At the end of last year, four people who were carrying Turkish passports and speaking Uighur were arrested in Poso, Central Sulawesi -- which is believed to be main area of operations for the network led by the alleged terrorist Santoso.
Indonesian police strongly suspect the four people had ties with ISIS and were on their way to meet Santoso. Three of them were recently sentenced to six-year jail terms.
Badrodin on Thursday said he did not want to jump to conclusions.
"We're still investigating these allegations, that's why I don't really want to talk more about it just yet," the four-star general said.
Representatives of the majority-Muslim Uighur people have long complained of discrimination by Chinese authorities in their native Xinjiang.