2014-07~09
http://www.aljazeera.com/programmes/aljazeeraworld/2014/07/uighurs-external-exile-20147793124666940.html

The Uighurs: External exile - Al Jazeera English
Meet the refugees who fled Syria for the Gaza Strip
10 Jul 2014 08:22 GMT | Arts & Culture, China
This film, which first debuted on the Al Jazeera Documentary channel in early 2014, follows the story of the Uighur people of the former East Turkestan, occupied by China in 1949, and renamed Xinjiang province.
It focuses primarily on the 30,000 or so Turkish-speaking Muslim Uighurs exiled in Istanbul. In this re-version, Al Jazeera English provides further context and background about the people and their predicament.
Once the majority in Xinjiang, they still consider the region their homeland and comprise around 45 percent of the population today.
In May 2014, explosives hit a crowded market in Xinjiang, and like similar previous attacks, China blamed Uighur separatists.
Under political pressure, large numbers of Uighur refugees have moved into exile abroad with many living in Istanbul.
Angered that their cause has received so little international attention, Uighurs want not only to maintain their rich Central Asian traditions, but also to free their homeland.
The government's attempt to clamp down on religious expression has backfired among Uyghurs.
Why the Uighur people will continue to reject China's colonial and apartheid rule.

 Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
 are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
 or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
 global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
 accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.

During the first two weeks of March, at least 1,428 were arrested for breaching Hungary's border fence with Serbia.
As Obama prepares to visit, questions remain over whether the embargo will be lifted and the future of Guantanamo Bay.
Are memes calling the Irish "the first slaves" an attempt to derail conversations about slavery and modern-day racism?
Palestinian American Farouk Shami is an associate who says the Republican candidate would make a "great president".
The government's attempt to clamp down on religious expression has backfired among Uyghurs.
Why the Uighur people will continue to reject China's colonial and apartheid rule.
At unprecedented joint press conference, US and Cuban presidents go toe-to-toe on human rights and economic punishment.
Moscow warns it will act unilaterally in response to alleged ceasefire infringements by Syrian rebels starting Tuesday.
Latin American migrants risk life and limb to reach the US border in search of the American dream.
The incredible story of 18 cows that became Israel's most wanted fugitives and symbols of Palestinian resistance.
Five years after the revolution, Tunisia's black minority has yet to experience the freedoms enjoyed by other citizens.