2014-07~09
http://news.yahoo.com/top-asian-news-4-00-p-m-gmt-160302003.html

Top Asian News at 4:30 p.m. GMT - Yahoo News
NEW DELHI (AP) — India celebrated putting a spacecraft into orbit around Mars on Wednesday, hoping the rare feat will show the world it is open for business in space exploration and inspire a new generation of homegrown scientists to help drive growth. Those motivations help explain why India, a poor country of 1.2 billion, even invests in a space program when so many of its people lack access to proper toilets, electricity and health care.
BOGOR, Indonesia (AP) — They are the size of a pinhead and don't even pack a sting, but these tiny wasps are cold-blooded killers nonetheless. They work as nature's SWAT team, neutralizing a pest that threatens to destroy one of the developing world's most important staple foods: cassava. The wasps are being released in Indonesia, the latest country threatened by the mealybug. It's a chalky white insect shaped like a pill that's been making its way across Southeast Asia's fields for the past six years. The pest first appeared in Indonesia in 2010. Bogor on the outskirts of Indonesia's capital Jakarta was ground zero.
CANBERRA, Australia (AP) — A terror suspect shot dead after he stabbed two Australian counterterrorism police officers had his passport canceled on national security grounds and had recently displayed what appeared to be a flag of the Islamic State group, top police officials said Wednesday. Some experts suspect Tuesday's attack was inspired by the Islamic State group's call to supporters to wage terrorism in their home countries.
HEXINGTEN, China (AP) — The corn has grown to only half its normal height on Yan Shuqin's ranch in the hills of Inner Mongolia this year, as a swath of northern China suffers its worst drought in 60 years. The ruddy-faced woman said that even before the rains stopped, the groundwater in her region had been sinking, from 20 meters (about 70 feet) below the surface just a few years ago to as much as 80 meters (260 feet) this past summer. While she can still eat and sell the corn, lettuce and other vegetables on her farm, the yield has shrunk.
JAKARTA, Indonesia (AP) — A former top leader of Indonesia's ruling Democratic Party was sentenced to eight years in prison Wednesday for corruption and money laundering. A five-member panel of the anti-graft Corruption Court found Anas Urbaningrum guilty of accepting money and property as bribes while arranging construction contracts for government-funded projects, such as a $122 million sports complex in West Java.
BEIJING (AP) — The former deputy chief of the Chinese agency in charge of steering the world's second-largest economy pleaded guilty to taking bribes at the conclusion of his one-day trial Wednesday, as China intensified its campaign against corruption. The court said a verdict would be announced at a later date.
BEIJING (AP) — China and Japan resumed high-level talks on maritime issues this week, in a sign that they want to improve relations badly strained in recent years by territorial disputes and wartime historical issues. Senior ministry officials met for two days in China's eastern city of Qingdao to exchange views on issues in the East China Sea and maritime cooperation, China's official Xinhua News Agency said Wednesday.
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — South Korea will buy 40 F-35A fighter jets from Lockheed Martin for about $7 billion in the country's biggest-ever weapons purchase aimed at coping with North Korea's military threats, officials said Wednesday. South Korea agreed to the purchase of F-35A jets in March and has since been negotiating with Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin over a price, technology transfer and other matters.
CHICAGO (AP) — An American attorney for a Chicago man accused of killing his girlfriend's mother on the Indonesian resort island of Bali said Wednesday that his client denies that he confessed during an interrogation, as police claim. Chicago attorney Thomas Durkin said Tommy Schaefer told him by phone that he didn't confess to killing Sheila von Wiese-Mack, whose badly beaten body was found stuffed in a suitcase inside the trunk of a taxi at the St. Regis Bali Resort in August. The victim's 19-year-old daughter, Heather Mack, is also a suspect. Neither has been formally charged.
BANDA ACEH, Indonesia (AP) — People caught having homosexual sex could be publicly caned in Indonesia's conservative Aceh province if an Islam-inspired draft law is approved this week. Lawmaker Moharriadi Syafari said a majority of provincial legislators supported criminalizing gay sex. They are debating the law with a view to passing it and several others regulating personal behavior before Friday, the last day of the current assembly.
NEW DELHI (AP) — India's top court said Wednesday that private companies will have to return most of the coal fields allocated to them by the government since 1993 under a corruption prone bidding system. The Supreme Court's order comes a month after it declared that all the government allocations of coal reserves from 1993 to 2010 were carried out under procedures that were arbitrary and lacked fairness and transparency.
In this photo by Andy Wong, scalpers try to resell iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus devices to people leaving an Apple Store in Beijing. Apple's latest smartphones have yet to arrive on the Chinese mainland but are available in Hong Kong. Chinese customs officials say they've intercepted hundreds of the Apple devices smuggled between Hong Kong and the neighboring mainland city of Shenzhen. Apple said it sold more than 10 million of the two new models in their first three days on sale.
BEIJING (AP) — A prominent scholar who championed China's Uighur minority plans to appeal his conviction and life sentence, citing what he calls his improper detention and the authorities' refusal to give his lawyers copies of evidence. Ilham Tohti has denied prosecutors' charges that he encouraged separatism while speaking and writing about the discontent in his native western region of Xinjiang. A court in the regional capital of Urumqi sentenced him to life in prison on Tuesday and ordered the confiscation of his possessions.
JAKARTA, Indonesia (AP) — A volcano in western Indonesia has sent a new, powerful burst of hot ash into the air. National disaster management agency spokesman Sutopo Purwo Nugroho says Mount Sinabung erupted for about 15 minutes Wednesday, creating an avalanche of hot clouds as far away as 2 kilometers (about a mile) from the peak.
NEW DELHI (AP) — Getting a spacecraft to orbit Mars is a complex mission that few countries have attempted, and even fewer have achieved. The former Soviet Union made the world's first attempt in 1960, but the satellite didn't get far from Earth. The United States had the first successful mission four years later, when a flyby satellite, Mariner 4, beamed 21 images of the red planet's surface back to Earth.