2014-07~09
http://english.pravda.ru/news/russia/09-09-2014/128481-southern_urals_china-0/

Southern Urals eyes China - PravdaReport
The visit of the delegation of the Chelyabinsk region to China was highly successful. 
"We have started to discuss specific subjects and outlined an action plan, - Acting Governor Boris Dubrovsky said. - We obviously are in need of mutual trade flow. From the Chelyabinsk region, it is possible to supply primarily food and special steels. Chinese partners offer ferroalloys, refractories, equipment for the metallurgical industry. The cargo traffic that is now being formed needs to be increased 100 times."
The region of Southern Urals is interested in attracting investment and technology to achieve objectives in the regional development strategy. China, a huge country, and its largest region - Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region - is a perfect partner to effectively address these challenges. In spring, the agreement on cooperation was signed before 2016. There are already initial results. The implementation of the anchor project of TLC "South-Ural", which will assist the development of relations not only between regions, but also between countries, was started. Russia and China will become closer to each other, mutually beneficial cooperation will grow to become more responsive and effective. 
"Between regions, relationships are necessarily created not only on the level of officials, but also on the level of workers, - Nikolai Kharitonov, the chairman of the Committee on Regional Policy and Problems of the North told Pravda.Ru. - We know that the Urals is the Russian body armor, the armor shield of Russia, and ferroalloys are definitely needed. If ministries approve, then cooperation will grow on a reciprocal basis to promote friendly relations between states, provinces and regions, when it comes to China."
"One does not have to count on an instantaneous effect, of course. But in general, inter-regional cooperation is always positive, and many Russian regions try to expand the list of their economic partners, Oksana Goncharenko, deputy head of the Department of Sociology and Political Science of the University of Finance under the Government of the Russian Federation told Pravda.Ru. - These plans will  undoubtedly produce a positive effect for the development of the region." 
Copyright © 1999-2016, «PRAVDA.Ru». When reproducing our materials in whole or in part, hyperlink to PRAVDA.Ru should be made. The opinions and views of the authors do not always coincide with the point of view of PRAVDA.Ru's editors.