2014-07~09
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-07-05/xinjiang-on-lockdown-as-chinese-govt-cracks-down/5574082

Xinjiang on lockdown as Chinese govt cracks down on 'terrorists' - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)
Just over a month ago, the Chinese government declared a year-long crackdown on what it says are Muslim terrorists. The western Chinese province of Xinjiang is the focus of this campaign. Security is extremely tight in its provincial capital Urumqi which saw deadly ethnic riots on this day five years ago.
ASHLEY HALL: Just over a month ago, the Chinese government declared a year-long crackdown on what it says are Muslim terrorists. The western Chinese province of Xinjiang is at the focus of this campaign.
Security is extremely tight in its provincial capital Urumqi which saw deadly ethnic riots on this day five years ago.
HUEY FERN TAY: A group of Muslim men gather outside one of the biggest mosques in Urumqi, Xinjiang preparing for the call to prayer at noon.
The police in this western Chinese province come up to us soon after and tell us to leave because they say we need special permission to be there. They threaten to take our camera away.
(Sound of dialogue between Huey Fern Tay and police officer)
"Foreign reporters like yourself need to get permission to do any filming or interviews here, especially outside a mosque," he said. "Someone will then escort you while you film."
We are forced to film from inside the car and, as we drive around the city, we see security cameras on almost every street corner and barricades outside schools. These were set up after bloody clashes erupted between Uighur Muslims and Han Chinese on the fifth of July 2009.
Police and paramilitary are also everywhere; their presence significantly boosted after a string of violent and often deadly attacks within and outside the province.
The bombings at the train station and open air market here in Urumqi killed 42 people and injured more than a hundred others.
We go to a neighbourhood that's predominantly Han Chinese. One passerby yells out to a woman we've just interviewed to stop spreading what he calls "nonsense".
Others we speak to reveal a sense of ambivalence about the heightened security.
"I think the extra security in the city is a not a good sign." said one man as he shifted around nervously. "People should get along naturally. Things shouldn't be this tense."
The Chinese government is cracking down on what it says are Muslim terrorists. Xinjiang is the epicentre of this effort.
Over at Urumqi's famous bazaar, sales are slow because the hordes of tourists that normally come at this time of year are staying away.
One woman who has been selling dried fruit for 10 years is worried because she's never seen business this bad.
"In the past when our business was good, we could make between five to six thousand renminbi a day," she says. "Now it's just a few hundred."
A man questions her soon after we leave. He follows us throughout the bazaar.
Almost everyone we spoke to declined to comment on the string of arrests and guilty verdicts that have been announced in the state media in the weeks since the Chinese government declared its year long war on terrorism.
For information on how you can help, visit abc.net.au/appeals or call 1800 811 700.
If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.


AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)
