2014-07~09
http://news.asiaone.com/news/asia/police-provide-details-sep-21-xinjiang-terror-attack

Police provide details on Sep 21 Xinjiang terror attack, AsiaOne Asia News
Armed police take part in an anti-terrorism drill in Xinjiang.
The Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region's information office released details on a terrorist attack on Sept 21 that killed 10 people, including two police officers and two assistant police, and injured 54.





 

Forty attackers were shot dead by police or killed in suicide explosions, and two attackers were arrested in Luntai county, the Bayinguoleng Mongolia autonomous prefecture, the regional information office said on the night of Sept 25.
The multiple explosions were detonated simultaneously at about 5 pm at a bazaar patronized by local residents from ethnic groups; two police stations; and the front of a shop. Thirty-two of the injured victims were Uygurs, according to a statement from the Xinjiang information office.
A police investigation showed that the attackers were led by Memet Turson, who was shot dead by police. Memet Turson was under the influence of religious extremism since 2003 after he graduated from a vocational school, police said.
He has become more devoted since 2008. He believed the meals that his parents cooked were not halal because his parents were government workers. He even refused to attend his father's funeral, police said.
Memet also refused to attend his brother's wedding because the couple's marriage certificate was issued by the government. He recruited people to join a terrorist group lead by him when he worked as a construction contractor. Memet then plotted and carried out the attack.
Armed police officers stand guard at the South Railway Station, where three people were killed and 79 wounded in a bomb and knife attack, in Urumqi, in this still image taken from CCTV video shot April 30, 2014.
The incident occurred in the far western region of China on Wednesday, state media said, as Chinese President Xi Jinping was wrapping up a visit to the area.
Quoting police, Xinhua news agency said "knife-wielding mobs slashed people" at an exit of the South Railway Station of Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang region, and set off explosives.
Four people were seriously wounded but were in stable condition.
The assault came on the same day that President Xi Jinping ended a visit to Xinjiang in China’s far west, home to the country’s mostly Muslim Uighur minority.
Four people were seriously injured in the attack but were “in a stable condition” after being sent to hospital for treatment, Xinhua reported, citing local Communist Party officials.
President Xi moved swiftly to urge “’decisive actions’ against violent terrorist attacks” following the incident, Xinhua said.
The blast, which occurred at 7.10pm local time, was “centred around luggage left on the ground between the station exit and a public bus stop,” Xinhua said, citing witnesses.
Many online postings relating to the incident on China’s Twitter-like microblog Weibo have since been removed, including images from apparent witnesses and posts from news organisations.
Get the latest news, opinion, trends, coverage, reports and more from AsiaOne—straight to your inbox! Or download our apps from Apple store or Google Play.