2014-07~09
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2014-09-23/chinese-uighur-scholar-ilham-tohti-sentenced-to-life-in-prison-for-separatism/1371429

Chinese Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti sentenced to life in prison for separatism | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
A Chinese court has sentenced an ethnic Uighur scholar to life imprisonment on separatism charges in a decision bound to draw widespread international criticism.
Ethnic Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti has been found guilty of advocating independence for Xinjiang, in China's west, on a website he managed called Uighurbiz.net.
The charge carries a maximum penalty of death in extreme cases, but the court instead sentenced him to life in prison.
Australia had joined the United States and other countries calling on Beijing to show leniency towards what they described as a moderate critic of Chinese government policy.
But the Communist Party did not see him that way.
Tohti told the court last week that he established the website to promote dialogue between Uighur and Han scholars and that he had publicly opposed separatism and violence.
Tohti rejected the prosecution's evidence and said statements against him by student volunteers who had worked on the website were made under pressure from authorities.
His lawyer had said the students had been held in solitary jail cells with their legs shackled and that Tohti had expressed understanding for their predicament and testimony.
China's ruling Communist Party tightly controls courts, and guilty verdicts in such cases are common.
The government blames a series of violent attacks in which hundreds have died on Islamist militants who it says, want to establish an independent state in Xinjiang where tension between Uighurs and majority Han Chinese is high.
Activists said the government's repressive policies, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest.
Tohti, who taught at Beijing's Minzu University, which specialises in ethnic minority studies, has said he never associated with any terrorist organisation or foreign-based group and has "relied only on pen and paper to diplomatically request" human rights and legal rights for Uighurs.
Last week, a court in the south-western province of Yunnan sentenced four people to between 10 and 20 years in jail for "plotting terror attacks", state media said. All four had Uighur names.
Three people were sentenced to death and one to life in prison earlier this month for a March attack at Kunming train station in Yunnan in which 31 people died and 141 were injured.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.