2014-07~09
http://www.nst.com.my/node/33573

4 suspected militants are China Uighurs | New Straits Times | Malaysia General Business Sports and Lifestyle News
JAKARTA: Indonesian police say four suspected Islamic militants arrested over the weekend are members of China’s ethnic Uighur minority community.
Authorities initially said the four were Turkish, which has linguistic and ethnic ties with the Uighur homeland of Xinjiang, a region in northwestern China.
The men were arrested Saturday while traveling in a car in Indonesia’s Central Sulawesi province, which is home to a network of Indonesian extremists.
National Police spokesman Col. Agus Rianto said Monday that police were investigating them on suspicion of seeking contact with a wanted militant and having possible links to the Islamic State group in Syria.
Xinjiang is home to a separatist insurgency that is infused with Islamist militancy, and Uighurs are known to have traveled to global jihadi hotspots, including the Pakistani border. --AFP
MELBOURNE, Australia: Mercedes got off to the best possible start to the Formula One season with a one-two finish at the Australian Grand Prix, yet the events of the weekend have sewn some uncertainty into the team’s bid for a third straight title.
LOS ANGELES: Entrepreneur Elon Musk and his British actress wife Talulah Riley are to end their marriage for a second time, official sources told AFP on Monday.
KUALA LUMPUR: The Meeting of the Technical Committee Tackling the El-Nino and Dry Weather agreed on the definition of heatwave used by the Meteorological Department that is Level 0: Weather below 35°C (Monitoring); and Level 1: Maximum temperature between 35°C to 37°C for three days consecutively (A
HAVANA: The White House Monday all but ruled out a meeting between Barack Obama and veteran Cuban leader Fidel Castro during the US president’s trip to Cuba.
FOREIGN investors are expected to extend their buying spree of Malaysian stocks to four consecutive weeks, said analysts.
© 2014. New Straits Times Press (M) Berhad (4485-H). All Rights Reserved.