2014-07~09
http://www.energyglobal.com/news/drilling-and-production/articles/Halliburton_JV_for_fracking_services_in_China_1065.aspx

Halliburton JV for fracking services in China

Magazines Hydrocarbon Engineering LNG Industry
Oilfield Technology
World Coal World Pipelines World Cement


Sign in | Subscribe | 
 Contact us | Newsletter
Halliburton has signed an agreement with the SPT Energy Group Inc. affiliate, Petrotech (Xinjiang) Engineering Company, to establish a joint venture company focused on hydraulic fracturing and production enhancement services in Xinjiang, China.
The new company, Xinjiang HDTD Oilfield Services Co., will provide fracture stimulation services, including design and analysis, data acquisition, and pumping and chemical services in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.
This is Halliburton’s first joint venture for hydraulic fracturing services in China.
A ceremony was held at the China World Hotel in Beijing to celebrate the establishment of Xinjiang HDTD Oilfield Services. An estimated 200 guests representing the oil and gas industry in China, as well as a number of local government officials, attended the event. Halliburton Chairman, President and CEO Dave Lesar delivered the keynote address.
Lesar commented: “Halliburton looks forward to strengthening our partnership with SPT Energy Group by bringing a suite of integrated, comprehensive solutions to the challenge of developing China’s unconventional reservoirs. Our basin-specific knowledge, industry-leading technologies and expert people have solved unconventional challenges around the world, and we are excited about growing our presence in China.”
David Zeng, Halliburton’s VP for China, added: “Over the next decade there will be great opportunities from the parallel development of conventional and unconventional resources in China. SPT’s strong client relationships combined with Halliburton’s technical expertise positions Xinjiang HDTD to be the leading service provider as we develop westward.”

 Halliburton’s TDReam tool was one of the winners of the Offshore Technology Conference’s ‘Spotlight on New Technology’ Awards.


Halliburton to expand drilling, testing and training operations in USA


 Halliburton has announced plans for a drilling, testing and training facility near Cameron, Texas, that will include testing and training wells.


 Pinnacle Technologies announces its latest innovation in fracture diagnostics: a hybrid tool.


 Halliburton Co, and Petronas have teamed up to explore possible shale resources in the Asia Pacific region.


 Palladian Publications publishes five international B2B magazines targeted specifically
 at the global energy sector. Each title provides its subscribers with a unique industry
 insight via a combination of news, reviews, comments, analysis, regional reports,
 case studies, technical articles and more. Magazines include Oilfield Technology,
 World Coal, Hydrocarbon Engineering, World Pipelines and LNG Industry.

Copyright © Palladian Publications Ltd. All rights reserved | Tel: +44 (0)1252 718 999 | Email: enquiries@energyglobal.com
Would you like to receive Oilfield Technology magazine for FREE?
Every issue includes technical articles, news reports, regional features and much more...
No, I don't want to keep up-to-date with the latest upstream news