2014-07~09
http://www.news.com.au/world/xinjiang-clash-leaves-nearly-100-dead-in-china/story-fndir2ev-1227008128053?from=public_rss

Almost 100 dead in ‘terror attack’
14:03 PMStaff writers ITS huge, curvaceous rear has been likened to the derrière of TV star Kim Kardashian. But jokes aside, the world’s biggest aircraft is soon to be a massive game-changer.
14:02 PMFrank Chung TRUMP’S rallies hit a fresh new low, so bad in fact a police officer described protesters as “the most hateful, evil people I’ve ever seen”.
12:10 PMRod Chester, wires THE FBI says it may have found a way to unlock the iPhone of San Bernardino gunman Syed Farook without Apple’s assistance.
11:44 AMRod Chester in Cupertino National Technology Writer APPLE is very excited about its new range of products, including a new iPhone. Here’s everything you should know.
10:28 AMThe Sun and staff writers SHOCKING video shows a rampaging killer elephant toss a helpless villager around like a rag doll as locals watch on in horror.
9:52 AMJamie Seidel IT’S the single most dramatic event in history: When an asteroid slammed into Mexico 66 million years ago, triggering a mass extinction that killed the dinosaurs. Now scientists want to find it.
9:51 AMAAP WHITE House insiders have revealed where Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull stands on US President Barack Obama’s list of favourite world leaders.
9:02 AMStaff writers FORGET overcrowding. In The Netherlands the government is actually shutting down prisons because they have too many empty cells.
Restive ... security has increased in many parts of Xinjiang province following some of the worst violence in months. Picture: Kevin Frayer
A CLASH in Xinjiang, in northwest China, has left nearly 100 people dead or wounded, an exile group has said after what authorities called a “terror attack” on a police station and township.
Dozens of civilians and assailants were killed and injured in the attack by a gang armed with knives and axes, Chinese state media reported late on Tuesday.
“Police officers at the scene shot dead dozens of members of the mob,” the official news agency Xinhua said.
It did not give a precise breakdown of the casualties from the incident on Monday, the day before Muslims in China marked the Eid festival, and information in Xinjiang is often difficult to verify independently.
Rising violence ... a file photo from March shows police investigating the scene of an attack at the railway station in Kunming, that left 29 dead and was similarly blamed on separatists.Source:AFP
Xinjiang’s government web portal Tianshan on Wednesday described the violence as a “terror attack” that killed or wounded “several tens” of Uighur and Han.
The Han are China’s largest ethnic group, whose members have migrated in large numbers to Xinjiang in recent decades.
Separately, prosecutors in Xinjiang on Wednesday brought charges of separatism against prominent Uighur academic Ilham Tohti detained earlier this year.
In detention ... prosecutors in Xinjiang have brought charges of separatism against prominent Uighur academic Ilham Tohti, attracting condemnation from human rights groups. Picture: Elizabeth DalzielSource:AP
Detention of the outspoken economics professor in January prompted condemnation from the United States, European Union and international rights groups, including Amnesty International.
Washington on Wednesday renewed calls for his release and six students held with him.
Monday’s violence came when “Uighurs rose up to resist China’s extreme ruling policy and were met with armed repression resulting in dead and injured on both sides”, Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for exile group World Uyghur Congress said in an e-mail.
“Nearly 100 people were killed and wounded during the clash,” he said, citing local Uighur sources.
A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. Find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out.
News Limited Copyright © . All times on this site are AEDT (GMT +11).