2014-07~09
http://www.businessspectator.com.au/news/2014/9/24/china/uighur-scholar-china-sentenced-life-prison

Uighur scholar in China sentenced to life in prison | Business Spectator
Alan Kohler is one of Australia’s most experienced business commentators. Alan has been a trusted source of investment advice to Australians for many years, and in 2005 he founded Eureka Report - Australia’s #1 online investment report. Along with Robert Gottliebsen and Stephen Bartholomeusz, Alan also founded Business Spectator, the popular business news and commentary website. Alan is the regular finance presenter on the ABC News and producer of the popular nightly graph (or two).
A Chinese court sentenced Ilham Tohti, an economist and prominent ethnic-rights campaigner, to life in prison, delivering an unusually harsh punishment for a scholar seen by many rights activists as a moderate voice for the country's Muslim Uighur minority.
The court in the northwestern region of Xinjiang also ordered all his assets seized, the official Xinhua News Agency said.
Li Fangping, one of Mr. Tohti's lawyers, said the scholar was prevented from making a statement after the verdict was read. "He seemed to want to stand up and say something, but the police rushed him out of the room. He shouted 'I don't accept this!' while being dragged away," Mr. Li said.
Phone calls to the court's press office rang unanswered Tuesday.
Mr. Tohti, a professor of economics at Beijing's Minzu University, has been a fierce critic of China's ethnic policies, particularly in Xinjiang, the site of increasing tension between Uighurs and the country's dominant Han Chinese. Still, scholars and other activists widely describe him as a moderate who argued against pursuing independence for the region.
Human-rights groups criticized the length of the sentence, which Mr. Tohti's lawyers had earlier said could range anywhere from 10 years to life in prison. Mr. Tohti's lawyers also said the order to seize his personal property was unusual.
"It's a shocking verdict, extremely harsh even by China's standards," said Maya Wang, a Hong Kong-based researcher for Human Rights Watch. "By handing down a life sentence, the government is burning its one and only bridge to moderate Uighurs in China. This will only exacerbate the heightened Han-Uighur tensions."
Human-rights activist Hu Jia said the verdict was the latest of several that punished moderate voices of dissent on a variety of subjects, such as stopping official corruption. "The government is saying there is no room for even moderate criticism," he said.
The European Union in a statement on Tuesday said it "deplores that the due process of law was not respected" in Mr. Tohti's case and called for his immediate release. Several Western countries, including the U.S., have condemned Mr. Tohti's arrest.
Asked about Mr. Tohti's case at a daily press briefing on Tuesday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said China is a country ruled by law and "we are always opposed to other countries interfering with our judicial independence."
The separatism charges largely relate to Uighur Online, a website that Mr. Tohti started in 2005, which became a source of news about Uighur issues following deadly ethnic riots in the Xinjiang capital of Urumqi in 2009. Xinhua, citing Tuesday's verdict, said the scholar "bewitched and coerced young ethnic students" into working for the site and participating in a criminal syndicate.
Mr. Tohti denied the charges during his trial last week, according to a transcript made public by his lawyers. "I have never thought of splitting the country and have never participated in any separatist activities, much less organized a so-called separatist group," he said.
The sentence comes at a time of surging violence between Uighurs and Han Chinese, including a bloody clash in western Xinjiang near the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan in which dozens were killed. Uighurs have long chafed at Han immigration into Xinjiang and what many describe as discriminatory economic and cultural policies imposed by Beijing. Continuing tension has helped fuel rising interest among some Uighurs in more conservative forms of Islam, according to scholars. That in turn has led authorities to clamp down harder in Xinjiang, including stepping up campaigns against long beards and veils.
Experts who follow Xinjiang describe Mr. Tohti as a figure who enjoyed credibility among both Uighurs and Han Chinese intellectuals in Beijing. His arrest and trial demonstrates a hardening of attitudes in Beijing in the face of rising ethnic violence, said Sean Roberts, an expert on Xinjiang at George Washington University.
"Rather than encourage nonviolent avenues for Uighurs to voice their discontent through people like Tohti, it appears that [China] is heading in the opposite direction, only silencing even moderate voices and using strong-arm tactics to control any Uighur political expressions," he said.
Mr. Tohti, 44 years old, was taken from his Beijing home by police in mid-January and subsequently brought to the Xinjiang Regional Detention Center in Urumqi. He staged a hunger strike early on in his detention to protest being deprived of halal food, according to his lawyers. He was later placed in leg irons and denied delivery of warm clothing sent to the detention center by his family, they said.
The detention center hasn't responded to repeated requests for comment.
In a video interview conducted by Chinese activist Zeng Jingyan after the 2009 riots in Urumqi, Mr. Tohti said he knew he might someday face prison.
"In the beginning, I didn't give it too much thought," he said. "I knew at the time that I might face some setbacks. I even thought I might be sent to prison for 10 or 20 years. I think I can handle that because I've always been prepared for it."
Mr. Tohti has two sons, five and eight, who live with his wife in Beijing. His also has a daughter, 20-year-old Jewher Tohti, who is a student at Indiana University. His wife, Guazaili Nu'er, makes 2,500 ($407) a month as a librarian at Minzu University, according to the daughter. Both Ms. Tohti and Ms. Nu'er declined to comment on Tuesday.
China bears might dominate the narrative, but if the country can make 
meaningful progress on reform the future might not be as dire as many are 
predicting.


The President has run into mounting resistance over the Communist Party’s 
efforts to tighten its vice even more completely over China.


A ruthless pragmatism focused on economic results has given way to 
politicians weighing the effects of policy on the party’s standing.


A more optimistic view of China’s prospects has helped oil and iron ore 
claw back some of the recent price plunges, but it’s unclear if the 
comeback is sustainable.


Data providers to combine in all-stock deal, new company to be based in 
London.


Hotel chain sweetens its bid, trumping offer from group led by China’s 
Anbang Insurance.


There is talk of plans to demerge Origin Energy’s utility business from its 
exploration and production assets.


A $1b public offering of the privately-owned Reliance Worldwide plumbing 
valve manufacturer, gathers pace.


Given that demand growth for most commodities has weakened as supply keeps 
rising, it’s unlikely that either the bounce in prices or the local 
currency’s strength will last.


The government’s fintech strategy resets the risk dial in relation to 
regulation and will likely fast track the entry of new firms into the market.


The Bank of Canada faces a familiar dilemma as it weighs policy responses to 
the country’s booming property market.




 Malcolm Turnbull concedes Tony Abbott could be bad for his election campaign. 
