2014-07~09
http://www.dw.de/china-revises-uighur-unrest-figures/a-17828475

China revises Uighur unrest figures | News | DW.COM | 03.08.2014

Chinese state media say violence in China's mainly Muslim Uighur region of Xinjiang resulted in nearly 100 deaths last Monday. Exile Uighurs say, however, that China often distorts its accounts.


China's official Xinhua news agency said on Sunday that 37 civilians and 59 "terrorists" had been killed in two incidents reported from China's vast western region early this week.

If verified, the official account would represent the worst joint outbreak of violence since rioting in Xinjiang's regional capital Urumqi in 2009.

When news of clashes first emerged late on Tuesday, Xinhua had reported that dozens of people had been killed and injured by a knife-wielding gang.

In its report Sunday, Xinhua said 35 of the dead civilians were Han Chinese and two were Uighurs.

A spokesman for the exiled World Uighur Congress, Dilxat Raxit, told the news agency AFP that Chinese forces had opened fire, killing or wounding nearly 100 people.

Independent verification is difficult to get from the vast resource-rich region. Rights groups accuse China of repressing Uighur cultural and religious aspirations, resulting in unrest.

Beijing has in the past blamed separatists in Xinjiang for a 
China sentences three people to death over Tiananmen attackseries of attacks. Among the more serious was a fatal assault on a market in Urumqi in May, when 39 people were killed.

A deadly rampage by knife-wielding assailants left 29 dead in March at Kunming in China's southwest.
Three people have been sentenced to death in connection with a deadly attack at Beijing's Tiananmen Square earlier this year. The government has blamed the attack on Muslim separatists. (16.06.2014)
  

A one year crackdown has been announced for the Xinjiang region in western China following the worst attack on Chinese soil in years left 31 people dead. China called the attack a "serious violent terrorist incident." (23.05.2014)
  

Indonesian security forces have killed two ethnic Uighur Chinese militants following a shoot-out. The two men belonged to a militant network run by country's most wanted man.
China has announced the deaths of 28 people during a police crackdown in Xinjiang, home to many Muslim Uighurs. In September, the group allegedly launched a terror attack at a coal mine, killing more than a dozen people.
Officers in Shenyang have killed three Uighur men who they say were Islamist militants. Activists have said that Uighurs are merely being discriminated against by a "hostile" government.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
