2014-07~09
http://www.rfa.org/english/RSS

RFA Home
Tibet’s diaspora chose a new political leader on Sunday as tens of thousands cast ballots for a government-in-exile.
The Tibet Sun and Phayul.com reported on Monday that incumbent Lobsang Sangay has a substantial lead over parliamentary speaker Penpa Tsering in the race for Sikyong, or the top leader of the government-in-exile. The official election results are scheduled to be released on April 27.
The Sikyong is responsible for political and diplomatic decisions for the Dharamsala, India-based government-in-exile known as the Central Tibetan Administration.
Sangay’s re-election comes at a critical time for Tibetans as the 80-year-old Dalai Lama scales back his involvement in the administration. In 2011, he announced that he was handing over his political authority to a democratically elected government.
The election also comes at a critical time for the relationship Tibet has with China. Beijing has ruled Tibet directly ever since Chinese troops marched into the formerly self-governing Himalayan region in 1950.
“The election for Sikyong has been, for some people at least, an exercise in frustration,” said Elliot Sperling, professor emeritus of Tibetan Studies at Indiana University.
“In the end, the Tibetan voting public has been left with two candidates who differ little, if at all, on their overall positions: they support Tibet being a part of China and have little concrete to say about actually dealing with China.”
The Dalai Lama fled Tibet and went into exile in India in the midst of a failed national uprising in 1959, and he is reviled by Chinese leaders as a dangerous separatist who seeks to split Tibetan areas from Beijing’s rule.
In what he calls a Middle Way Approach, though, the Dalai Lama himself says that he seeks only a “meaningful autonomy” for Tibet as a part of China, with protections for the region’s language, religion, and culture.
With both Sikyong candidates backing the Middle Way, the election for the 45 seats in the parliament, or chitue, may better reflect the split among Tibetans over their relationship with Beijing.
“Some voters are turning to the chitue as a place in which at least some candidates are standing against the idea of legitimizing the incorporation of Tibet into the People’s Republic of China,” Sperling said. “These campaigns have received less attention, so it will be interesting to see how they turn out.”
In interviews on Sunday, Tibetan voters expressed enthusiasm about the election.
“Firstly, I consider the selection and election of the Tibetan Sikyong to be very important,” one voter in Bylakuppe, India, told RFA’s Tibetan Service.  “Secondly, I consider it important to elect good people as members of the Tibetan parliament-in-exile.”
Said a female voter:  “The objective for which I have come here today is to hope a woman could stand in the election, so I cast my vote for a woman candidate [for parliament], hoping it will encourage as many women to run as possible.”
While the independence question forms a powerful undercurrent to the policy debates in the exile community, the 2016 elections focused more on personality than policy, said Robbie Barnett, director of the Modern Tibetan Studies Program at Columbia University.
“The election process this time has increasingly come down to conflicts over personality and character,” said Barnett. “I think this is a legacy of the long debate over the ‘middle way’ and independence, deeply emotive topics which have tended to divert energy and attention from the everyday issues of political reform, development, education and so on.”
The election may have problems, but that hasn’t stopped thousands from going to the various polling places where exile Tibetans congregate all over the world.
“On the positive side, this election has shown that any leader, even if he or she has impressive credentials or an important title, can and must be assessed on the basis of their record,” Barnett explained.
“After this people will ask harder questions of future candidates, and will discuss the details of each candidates words, practical achievements and policies.”
Or as one voter put it: “To vote today is an individual right. That right should be exercised. It is important to elect a good man. I have chosen that good man.”
Reported by RFA's Tibetan Service. With additional reporting by Brooks Boliek and Richard Finney. Translated by Benpa Topgyal. Written in English by Brooks Boliek.
Myanmar’s parliament on Monday approved a proposal by the incoming government to reduce the number of ministries in the nation’s bloated bureaucracy in a move that will save more than U.S. $4 million over the next years.
Lawmakers voted 611-3 in favor of the motion that cut the number of government ministries to 21 from 36 as well as trimmed the number of government ministers to 18, according to media reports.
President-elect Htin Kyaw, whose National League for Democracy (NLD) party will officially take over the government on April 1, told lawmakers that the savings would be directed to services that would help the developing country’s citizens during his five-year term.
“The country will save about 5 billion kyats [U.S. $4.13 million] from the reduced [number of] ministries and ministers,” he said. “We can use this budget for people in need to make their lives better, such as using it for health care, education and rural development.”
Htin Kyaw will submit a list of nominated ministers to parliament on Tuesday, while military commander-in-chief Min Aung Hlaing will nominate leaders for the ministries of defense, home affairs and border affairs, which are controlled by the Tatmadaw, or government armed forces.
Htin Kyaw, a close aide to NLD chairwoman Aung San Suu Kyi and who will run the government as her proxy, also emphasized to lawmakers the importance of the new ethnic affairs ministry—the only new portfolio added to the government’s lineup of ministries—in repairing relations with the country’s various ethnic minority groups, some of whom continue to be involved in armed hostilities with the Myanmar army.
Aung San Suu Kyi, who is prohibited from becoming president because she has foreign-born relatives, will remain head of the NLD and not likely assume a formal position in the new government, according to local media reports.
Nevertheless, she has made ethnic unity and national reconciliation a government priority to end Myanmar's half-century of civil wars.
Tens of thousands of citizens have been displaced by conflicts between armed ethnic groups and the government military mainly in northern Myanmar’s Kachin and Shan states, while more than 100,000 Rohingya Muslims remain in camps in western Rakhine state where they have been forced to live following communal violence with ethnic Buddhists in 2012.
The Rohingyas face discrimination from the government which sees them as illegal immigrants from Bangladesh, even though many have lived in the country for generations.
The government has denied them citizenship, restricted their movements, and disenfranchised them during the national elections last November, which the NLD swept.
The United Nations estimated on Monday that about 25,000 Rohingya have left camps in Rakhine and returned to their home communities where they have rebuilt houses, Reuters reported.
Vivian Tan, spokeswoman for the U.N. refugee agency (UNHCR) told Reuters that some Rohingyas began moving out of the camps a year ago under a process led by the Myanmar government, and the number of camps for displaced people in Rakhine had fallen to 40 from 67.
Roughly 120,000 other Rohingyas continue to live in the squalid camps, while thousands of others have risked their lives at sea over the last few years to flee persecution in the Buddhist-dominated nation.
Human rights groups have criticized Aung San Suu Kyi and the NLD for remaining silent on the Rohingya issue and not standing up for them.
Volker Turk, the UNHCR’s assistant high commissioner for protection, told the media following an event on refugees on Monday in Bangkok that the international community viewed the situation in Rakhine as complicated, and he hoped that the NLD would find a way to address it, Agence France-Presse reported.
Both the U.N. and European Union indicated that hope that conditions would improve for the Rohingya under the NLD-led government had contributed to the decline in the number fleeing to Thailand and other Southeast Asian countries, the online journal The Irrawaddy reported.
Ba Shein, a lawmaker who represents the coastal Kyaukphyu constituency in Rakhine told AFP that he does not believe the new ethnic affairs ministry can resolve Rakhine state’s communal rifts.
“The ministry of ethnic affairs is concerned with Myanmar ethnics,” he was quoted as saying. “Bengali people are not one of our ethnic groups.”
Such sentiments prompted Cardinal Maung Bo, the country’s first Roman Catholic cardinal who has pledged to work towards peace and reconciliation between Myanmar’s Buddhists and Muslims, to brand those who discriminate against others on the basis of race as foes of the nation.
“Those who practice racial discrimination are enemies of the state, not the ones who build the state,” he said Monday. “It is important to take action against such people. We have to have justice first, then peace. Only peace can bring development.”
Reported by Win Naung Toe and Kyaw Tun Naing for RFA’s Myanmar Service. Translated by Khet Mar. Written in English by Roseanne Gerin.
Mining operations by a Chinese coal company in northern Laos are causing structural damage to a road and houses in a nearby village, prompting complaints by local residents to central government authorities, sources say.Drilling by the Chinese Boualay Mangkonthong company has opened long fissures in a local highway and damaged power lines, houses, and school buildings in Namngeun village in Luang Namtha province’s Viengphoukha district, one villager told RFA’s Lao Service.“There are many cracks in the village and along Highway R3,” RFA’s source said, speaking on condition of anonymity.  “The company will not come to repair this, and will only bulldoze the surface of the road.”“We are waiting for the company to fix things,” he said.Following complaints to authorities in the Lao capital Vientiane, officials from the Ministry of Public Works and Transport came to inspect damage to the village and the highway, noting several houses in imminent danger of collapse, the source said. Cracks as long as 300 meters (984 feet) were also found running along the road, he said.Disaster zoneA Feb. 2 report by the ministry’s department of roads and bridges has now identified a 5-km (3.107 mile) stretch of highway through the mining area as a potential disaster zone, sources say.The report also charges the mining firm, which has operated in the area since 2014 with a capital investment of U.S. $5 million, with responsibility to fix the road, though no mention is made of repairs to villagers’ homes.No new mine will be allowed to open in the area until the old one is closed, according to the report.Calls by RFA seeking comment from senior officials of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport in Luang Namtha and in Vientiane rang unanswered or were not returned.Extraction operations by Chinese and Lao copper mining companies have already damaged areas of northern Laos’ Oudomxay province, polluting water sources, destroying forests, and causing dangerous levels  of soil subsidence, sources told RFA in earlier reports.Reported by RFA’s Lao Service. Translated by Ounkeo Souksavanh. Written in English by Richard Finney.
North Korea has continued to prod the United States and its allies, launching projectiles into the ocean on Monday as Pyongyang appeared to express anger over U.S.-South Korean military training exercises and deepening U.N. sanctions.
On Monday, North Korea fired five projectiles into the South China Sea, the South Korean military said. It is unclear if they were artillery shells or missiles, but they were fired from the northeastern city of Hamhung and flew about 125 miles.
"Our military is keeping close tabs on the situation and standing by with a heightened defense posture," the South Korean Joint Chiefs of Staff said in a statement carried by that country’s Yonhap News agency.
On Friday, North Korea fired a pair of medium-range missile into the Sea of Japan, marking the first time the country fired a medium-range missile since early 2014. The missile was believed to be a test of re-entry technology necessary for a long-range nuclear missile. South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff said in a statement that the missiles flew 500 miles before crashing into the ocean.
The country has also fired several short-range projectiles from its east coast since the U.N. imposed broad new sanctions after the country exploded a nuclear device and fired a long-range missile earlier this year.
South Korea and the U.S. are conducting what South Korea's defense ministry called “the largest ever” joint military maneuvers, involving 300,000 South Korean troops and at least 17,000 from the U.S. Small detachments of forces from Australia and New Zealand also participated in Saturday's operations.
The allies view the exercises as way to deter the North from military provocations.
"At the end of the day, we sincerely believe peace through strength, and it is in the strength of our alliance that we believe can deter and avoid war," said Brig. Gen. John Jansen, the commander of the U.S. 3rd Marine Expeditionary Brigade, according to Yonhap.
Seoul and Washington were scheduled for talks Monday on implementing new sanctions on North Korea imposed on the North over its nuclear test in January and long-range rocket launch last month. Pyongyang has repeatedly issued nuclear strike threats against both Seoul and Washington.
The U.S. special representative for North Korean policy, Sung Kim, who is in Seoul, said Monday that North Korea "should refrain from all provocative actions, including missile tests, which are clearly in violation of Security Council resolutions," the Associated Press reported.
On Sunday, North Korean state TV broadcast photos of leader Kim Jong Un supervising landing and defensive drills, AP reported. The photos showed artillery blazing, navy ships landing as shells fell nearby, and soldiers running with the national flag. North Korea has a history of photo manipulation and there was no way to verify the authenticity of the photos.
In a statement on Saturday attributed to its military, North Korea accused the U.S. and South Korea of holding the landing drill as part of an “operation to advance into Pyongyang.” Other North Korean media reports have referred angrily to an invasion they allege Washington and Seoul are planning against its regime.
“The revolutionary armed forces of the DPRK holding tightly the arms to annihilate the enemies with towering hatred for them are waiting for the dignified Supreme Command to issue an order to launch a preemptive strike of justice,” it said in comments carried by the state KCNA news agency.
Parents and medical professionals hit out on Monday at a lack of official transparency surrounding the continuing problem of unsafe vaccines as authorities in Shandong said they have "busted" an illegal gang peddling out-of-date vaccines across the country.The Shandong government said on Saturday it had evidence linking some 300 suspects to illegal deals of vaccine sales in 24 provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions.Among those formally arrested in 21 cases spanning Inner Mongolia, Henan, Hebei and Shandong were a mother surnamed Pang and her daughter, who are being held on suspicion of carrying out illegal vaccine sales worth more than 570 million (U.S.$88 million), official media reported.The cases are likely to further shatter public confidence in the safety of vaccines amid a lack of clear information from the government, medical sources told RFA."This is a matter of life and death ... but it's not easy to identify these things; we need to know which year they were produced in," a Beijing doctor surnamed Wang said on Monday."They should make an announcement about this as soon as possible ... so we can locate these items and cut off the supply, so no more people are harmed."She said the government has yet to inform the medical profession which outlets are safe and which may be carrying illegal vaccines."They didn't tell us the sources of these vaccines; where they were getting them from. There are no details," the doctor said. "It says online that the sales were made with the connivance of salespeople at the pharmaceutical factories.""Vaccines that are past their use-by date are sold off cheap, but they lose their effectiveness, and they can even give rise to side-effects," she said.'A huge profitPang and the other suspects are believed to have bought 25 kinds of licensed and unlicensed vaccines from more than 100 pharmaceutical salespeople since 2010, state-run China Radio International (CRI) reported.The vaccines were then sold on at a huge profit, police in Shandong's provincial capital Jinan said in a statement.According to CRI: "The quality of the vaccines was questionable as they were not transported in approved conditions. Such vaccines have potential side-effects and can even cause disability or death if they become expired."Shandong-based Sun Hongli, whose child was affected by substandard vaccines, agreed that such practices could be a matter of life and death."This is murder," Sun said. "[Are we supposed to believe that] the health-care authorities knew nothing about this?""Of course they knew, because if they didn't, it would have been discovered within six months to a year, but this has been going on for several years now," she said.'So much grief'Henan-based rights activist Liu Fengqin said she was very angry when she heard the news."Of course the government is responsible," Liu said. "Vaccines that haven't been correctly refrigerated can be very harmful and can cause great harm to children, who are then unable to live independent lives.""This causes so much grief."Parents and rights activists say the problem of out-of-date or substandard vaccines is endemic in China's health-care system, which has scant provision for independent safety checks.Yu Tong'an, a parent of a child whose health was also damaged by a vaccine product in the southern province of Guangdong, called on Monday for the resignation of Li Bin, head of the Health and Family Planning Commission."I think that this first requires the resignation of Li Bin, who should take responsibility before the nation," Yu said. "There is no foul language that would adequately express the level of anger I feel about this.""I have no words to express it."Hundreds hurtLast September, the parents of some 360 children in the central Chinese province of Henan said the children had suffered severe health problems and two deaths after being given out-of-date vaccines.And a 2014 investigative report in the China Economic Times said that improperly stored vaccines administered by Shanxi health officials for encephalitis, hepatitis B, and rabies between 2006 and 2008 had killed four children and sickened more than 70 others, with tainted vaccines being used as late as March 2009.However, health officials have frequently said that the children's health problems are unrelated to vaccines.Reported by Qiao Long for RFA's Mandarin Service, and by Pan Jiaqing for the Cantonese Service. Translated and written in English by Luisetta Mudie.
Chinese authorities in the northern region of Inner Mongolia are holding five ethnic Mongolian herders after they took part in a blockade of mining operations on their former grasslands, herders told RFA.Police from Bayanhuaa township in Inner Mongolia's Right Uzumchin Banner (a county-level administrative district) detained Ganbaatar, Otgonbaatar, Munkhbaatar, Erdenbaatar, Tuvshin and Amarmend on Saturday.While Erdenbaatar has since been released, the remaining five detained herders are being held under a 10-day administrative sentence for "disrupting public order," local police officers told their families."They let him out and he is serving his sentence [at home]," Erdenbaatar's wife told RFA. "There'll definitely be a fine as well, but I don't know how much yet."The detentions follow a sit-in involving more than 100 herders at the Bayanhuaa Industrial Zone, who blockaded several coal and copper-zinc mines in protest at the loss of their traditional grazing lands and environmental pollution."The West Uzumchin Banner authorities detained six people on charges of disrupting public order," said a local resident who asked to remain anonymous, but who supplied photographs to RFA. "There are some polluting industries in the vicinity of Bayanhuaa, which has caused very strong anger among local herding communities.""The herders have been to complain about it several times to the banner government, but they have never done anything about it, and now the government is sending in the police to detain the herders who made the complaints," the ethnic Mongolian resident said.Local residents said their land has been polluted by mining waste, affecting their traditional way of life."We can't graze our sheep there any more because there is waste effluent in the grasslands, and the sheep get extra-long teeth if they drink the water, and it's harmful to human health as well," one herder told RFA.A second herder said local communities had suffered "very serious" losses from the pollution."The herders have tried to make complaints using every kind of channel, but to no avail," the herder said.Ethnic Mongolian herder Wu Yanfang said some of the herders also went to demand the release of the detainees at the Bayanhuaa police station."Around 60 people went [to complain], and some more went again on Sunday, to demand the release of the detainees," she said.
The New York-based Southern Mongolian Human Rights and Information Center (SMHRIC) said in a statement on its website that the herders from Bayanhuaa's Sain-Undur district had staged the blockade to call for an immediate halt to production at the industrial zone.It said local water, soil and air is now heavily polluted with untreated toxic mining waste dumped on traditional grazing lands.According to the banner police department, the herders were detained for blocking the entrance to the Bayanhuaa No.1 Coal Field, the No.2 Coal Crushing Station and a logistics center belonging to a copper-zinc mine for more than two days, "causing a substantial loss to the corporations concerned," SMHRIC quoted a police statement as saying.The authorities met with local residents on March 17, but herders said they don't hold out much hope that official promises to look into the matter will result in any changes."Promises, responses and even the written warning to those mines are just an empty talk," SMHRIC quoted one local resident as saying."Those mines are still in production and polluting our grazing land," he said. "All these empty promises are nothing but a trick for fooling us herders and backing those mines and factories to continue to extract our natural resources and destroy our land."Angry residents told SMHRIC they plan to hold further protests on Monday to call for the herders' release.Ethnic Mongolian rights activist Xinna said many more of the Bayanhuaa herders had been called in for questioning by police over the protests, which she said had left local people with no livelihood."The situation is very tense there right now, because this is the same village where Murgen was run over and killed by a mining company truck," Xinna said."The chief of police, who is surnamed Wang, from the Shilingol League [which administers West Uzumchin Banner] has gone down there to suppress these protests."In 2011, local herder Murgen was run over by a worker driving a coal-hauling truck while protesting the destruction of grazing lands by a mining company, sparking weeks of protests across the region by herders and students.Reported by Qiao Long for RFA's Mandarin Service, and by Wong Siu-san and Wong Lok-to for the Cantonese Service. Translated and written in English by Luisetta Mudie.
China has set lower targets for improving its energy efficiency by the end of 2020 after claiming it made major gains last year.In their annual reports to the National People's Congress (NPC) on March 5, Premier Li Keqiang and his top planning agency cited big advances in energy saving for 2015 and the previous four years.Under the 12th Five-Year Plan starting in 2011, China's energy use per unit of gross domestic product fell 18.2 percent, including a huge 5.6-percent cut last year, the largest in over a decade.Although China's total energy consumption continues to grow, the per-unit-of-GDP "energy intensity" index is seen as a key measure of its campaign to curb waste, carbon emissions, and smog.China has steadily increased its efficiency over the years, but it remains far behind other major economies. In 2011, for example, China's energy intensity was 5.4 times higher than Japan's, according to U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) data.Analysts say that China performed especially well last year because of the downturn in the coal-fired heavy industrial sector, where power use fell 1.9 percent.While GDP growth of 6.9 percent was the slowest in 25 years, total energy consumption edged up only 0.9 percent, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) said.The big efficiency gain in 2015 boosted China's five-year performance well past the 16-percent target set out in the 12th Five-Year Plan, according to government calculations.Lowered goalsCuriously, Premier Li and the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) planning agency made no reference to meeting the five-year target in their NPC reports.But the government has apparently responded to its statistical over-achievement by lowering goals for efficiency under the 13th Five-Year Plan, aiming for a 3.4-percent gain this year and a 15-percent improvement by 2020.The reductions follow a pattern set after the government narrowly missed its targeted cut of 20 percent under the 11th Five-Year Plan ending in 2010, despite imposing power brownouts and blackouts on some factories and homes in a desperate attempt to reach the goal.The 15-percent target for the 2016-2020 period reflects tougher challenges in the future to make big efficiency gains without crimping the economy, but also the possibility that the government may have to resume stimulus measures to revive sagging GDP rates."I think they are being conservative with a 15-percent figure for the 13th Five-Year Plan simply because of the economic uncertainty," said David Fridley, staff scientist for the China Energy Group at the DOE's Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California.After the 5.6-percent improvement in 2015, the government seems likely to have little trouble in lowering energy intensity by 3.4 percent this year unless wasteful infrastructure spending picks up dramatically.Gains questionedThe relatively low GDP growth last year raises the question of whether the high efficiency gain was the result of a temporary industrial slump that may be reversed or more significant long-term restructuring.In the pattern of previous five-year periods, efficiency gains have also tended to drop after major goals are achieved.In its report, the NDRC listed annual energy intensity reductions of 4.8 percent in 2014, 3.7 percent in 2013, 3.6 percent in 2012, and 2.0 percent in 2011.But the challenge is more than just a case of percentage points in an arcane index, since efficiency is a leading factor in China's pledges on pollution and climate change.The five-year energy targets are seen as a key to meeting China's commitment to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) intensity by 40-45 percent from 2005 levels by 2020.The government has also promised to reach a peak in energy-related carbon emissions by 2030.At the same time, China is pushing ahead with plans for economic growth, calling for GDP to rise by 6.5 to 7 percent this year in keeping with Communist Party promises to double GDP and per capita income by 2020 compared with 2010.Balancing actTaken together, the economic and environmental goals are both a balancing act and a statistical feat.In his report, Li also targeted an 18-percent cut in CO2 intensity for the next five years in support of the pollution pledges.Last week, the Paris-based International Energy Agency (IEA) gave China high marks for reducing CO2 releases by 1.5 percent in 2015, helping to keep global emissions flat for the second year in a row, according to preliminary reports.The IEA credited China's higher reliance on renewable energy sources, noting that coal provided less than 70 percent of the country's power last year, dropping 10 percentage points since 2011.But the government's apparent reticence with regard to achieving its 2015 efficiency targets may raise doubts about whether it has confidence in the energy intensity results.Some economists have questioned whether the official GDP figures for last year were overstated, considering that energy consumption rose only 0.9 percent.A downward adjustment of the economic figures would alter the intensity index, but the final revisions may take another year to complete. In the meantime, the government has released few supporting statistics for its efficiency calculations.Sketchy dataDespite promises to promote transparency, official data has grown increasingly sketchy. Annual work reports, which once teemed with numbers, now omit important details.In February, the NBS reported a 3.7-percent decline in coal consumption last year without a corresponding tonnage figure. But a Reuters report on March 4, citing the NBS, said the decline was 2.2 percent.Last November, The New York Times reported that the agency had been under-reporting annual coal consumption by 17 percent for years.In its report, the NDRC said China produced 3.75 billion metric tons of coal without giving a growth figure. Both production and consumption are believed to have fallen for the second year in a row as power demand waned.Based on formulas that China uses for the energy content of "standard coal," the country may have burned over 3.8 billion tons of raw coal last year.But without better data on coal, which now reportedly provides 64 percent of China's energy, it may be impossible to gauge the accuracy of efficiency or emissions claims.NBS reports on industrial production are frequently inconsistent with previous data, undermining credibility in GDP figures. Provincial estimates have also been adjusted with undisclosed formulas to mesh with national totals."When you go around and meet state-owned industry people, everybody laughs at the national statistics, so I don't know why foreigners believe them," one analyst recently told The New York Times.Leadership changesConfidence in official data has been further eroded by frequent leadership changes at the NBS.In February, the cabinet-level State Council announced the removal of Wang Baoan from his post as NBS director, one month after he was placed under investigation for "severe disciplinary violation" and after only nine months on the job.On March 4, just before the start of China's annual "two sessions" legislative meetings, the council said Wang, a former vice minister of finance, would be replaced by Ning Jizhe, who also serves as deputy head of the NDRC, the official Xinhua news agency reported.
In an effort to keep alive their struggle for greater freedom under Chinese rule, tens of thousands of Tibetan expatriates will vote for new exile leadership on Sunday in Dharamsala, India.
While the election is the second direct election of a leader in exile, it has growing importance the Dalai Lama announcement in 2011 that he was handing over his political authority to a democratically-elected government.
The 80-year-old monk and Nobel Laureate has stepped back from the limelight amid questions about his health and uncertainty over his successor. Tibetan Buddhism holds that the soul of a senior lama is reincarnated in the body of a child after he dies. While the Dali Lama will remain as the Tibetan spiritual leader, Sunday’s vote will select a political leader known as a "Sikyong,” who will be solely responsible for political and diplomatic decisions for the government-in-exile known as the Central Tibetan Administration.
Exiled Tibetans see the CTA as their legitimate government, despite the Chinese government’s attempt to marginalize it. It’s based in Dharamsala, where a community of Tibetans lives with the Dalai Lama.
On Thursday, Beijing said it has never recognized the Dalai Lama-backed Tibetan government-in-exile and asked countries around the world not to provide any "stage" to independence activists from Tibet, according to Mumbai’s dnaindia.com
"You must be quite clear about the position of Chinese government, that we have never recognized this so-called government-in-exile," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang said, according to the report.
Lobsang  Sangay, the leader of the Tibetan government-in-exile, who is seeking re-election, told Reuters that CTA is in it for the long haul.
"China will see that CTA is going to stay here for a long time and the Tibetan freedom struggle will be here for a long time," he said.
While China controls Tibet, the CTA is important as  a main avenue for the movement for greater autonomy for Tibet and the survival of Tibetans’ ancient culture.
The Sikyong will have his hands full rallying global support for Tibet's freedom struggle, strengthening ties with the host government India, and discouraging self-immolation by refugees protesting Beijing's ironclad control of Tibet. More than 140 Tibetans have set themselves on fire in grisly, usually fatal protests against Beijing rule. According to Reuters, Sangay and his opponent, exile parliament speaker Penpa Tsering, both favor the "middle way" propagated by the Dalai Lama for more than 50 years that advocates nonviolence while seeking autonomy for Tibet, while stopping short of demanding full independence for their Himalayan homeland.
China is pushing the Myanmar government to restart the controversial U.S. $3.6-billion Myitsone Dam project, which was temporarily halted in 2011 by outgoing President Thein Sein amid fervent opposition mainly because of the environmental destruction it was predicted to cause.
Myanmar’s incoming government under the National League for Democracy (NLD) will now have to decide whether to let China Power Investment Corporation (CPI), one of China’s  largest state-owned electricity producers, continue building the 6,000-megawatt dam along the Irrawaddy River in northern Myanmar’s Kachin State.
China’s Vice Foreign Minister Liu Zhenmin told a news conference on Thursday that the dam is an “important cooperation project” and that its contract terms are still in force, Reuters reported.
“I think that the existing government has no time to get this project restarted,” he was quoted as saying. “I believe that once the new government is in office, the Chinese government will continue to discuss with them how to restart this project.”
Although a 23-member delegation from Myanmar’s outgoing Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP) government is about to meet with foreign affairs representatives from the Chinese Communist Party in Beijing, it is unlikely they will discuss the Myitsone Dam project.
“Our USDP chairman, President Thein Sein, suspended the Myitsone Dam project during his presidential term as people wished,” said Tint Zaw, a member of the USDP’s Central Executive Committee. “The USDP has no policy on nor has it held discussions about the Myitsone Dam.”
Chinese President Xi Jinping on Wednesday congratulated Htin Kyaw, an NLD member and aide to Aung San Suu Kyi, who will succeed Thein Sein as Myanmar’s president at the end of the month, according to a statement issued by China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Activists and politicians in Myanmar said the Myitsone Dam project poses a major challenge to the NLD government.
“The Myitsone Dam project is the biggest challenge for the new government,” said Ko Jimmy, who was a leader of the pro-democracy 88 Generation Students group, which has called on Chinese officials to consider local people’s interests when making their huge investments in Myanmar.
“People don’t want that dam because it is on the Irrawaddy River [which] belongs to the people who live along it,” he said. “If the new government lets Chinese companies start it again, there will be problems.”
Aung Moe Zaw, chairman of the Democratic Party for a New Society, a political party affiliated with the country’s broader democracy movement, believes the Myanmar people will reject the dam project, creating obstacles for the new government’s relations with China in other business deals.
“There will be some difficulties for the new government in doing something about this project,” he said. “The new government has to deal with its relationship with China and other projects with Chinese companies. But on the other hand, it has to think about the people’s rejection [of the project].”
Tu Jar, chairman of the Kachin State Democracy Party, said the new government should adhere to the wishes of the people when it comes to the dam because Myanmar is a democracy where people’s voices matter.
“The new government has to decide on this project based on the wishes of the people because it was elected by the people,” he said. “I have heard that the Chinese government has already built a good relationship with the NLD government, so I don’t think the two countries’ ties will be harmed even if the Myitsone Dam project starts again.”
Aung San Suu Kyi, whose NLD party won national elections last November, assured Chinese leaders at the time that she sought continued friendly relations between the two countries and welcomed Chinese investment in Myanmar, as long as investors won the trust of the Myanmar people. She has been one of the Myitsone Dam project’s most vocal opponents.
Chinese-backed companies are the largest foreign investors in Myanmar, but their heavy-handed tactics when it comes to exploiting Myanmar’s natural resources have sparked vehement public opposition.
Myanmar citizens not only oppose the Myitsone Dam project because of its environmental impact, but also because of its huge flooding area, dislocation of people living nearby, proximity to a geographical fault line, and unequal share of electricity output for Myanmar. Under the investment deal, about 90 percent of the electricity produced by the dam would go to southern China’s Yunnan province.
In June 2014, CPI cut off food assistance to at least two families who were among hundreds displaced by the project after they backed a 100-strong march from the commercial capital Yangon to the dam site, protesting against the resumption of work on the dam.
CPI also provided new homes for villagers who were displaced by the project, but La Yan, leader of Tanphaye village, whose residents were forcibly moved, said about 60 families had returned.
“We don’t know whether new government will stop us or not,” he said. “Some villagers have returned and are living in their [old] houses, and some of them have been taken away by authorities because they were living in their houses.”
The residents had found it difficult to remain in the new dwellings that CPI built for them elsewhere, because they leaked when it rained, he said.
About 3,000 people from four villages were moved to Aung Myin Thar village because of the dam project, but they don’t have farms there, he said.
“We can’t do anything in Aung Myin Thar,” he said. “Our houses and farms are in our villages. Our villages are the best place for us. Even people from Aung Myin Thar village have to work in Tanphaye village so they can farm for their survival.”
Groups of local residents in the Irrawaddy Delta and Thanlyin River (also known as Salween River) regions protested on Monday—International Rivers Day—for officials to suspend the Myitsone and other dam construction projects, according to a report by Eleven Myanmar media group. Some also collected signatures on petitions against the Myitsone project.
Reported by Thinn Thiri, Tin Aung Khine and Wai Mar Tun for RFA’s Myanmar Service. Translated by Khet Mar. Written in English by Roseanne Gerin.
Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen has decided to revamp his cabinet as three long-serving ministers agreed to give up their posts in a move that appears to be an attempt to shore up the strongman’s image before the 2018 election.
“The plan is that on April 4, there will be a vote to reshuffle the composition of the government in order to ensure the work will be more effective,” Hun Sen told students at a graduation ceremony in Phnom Penh.
“In here, there were no bad ministers. It’s just that some ministers were appointed but acted slowly in their own positions,” he said. “It doesn’t mean that all these ministers are to be removed, but it is required so that the work will be done in a more effective manner.”
The changes come as Hun Sen gears up for what looks like tough races for the Cambodian People’s Party in 2017 commune elections and a 2018 general election.
Hun Sen and his CPP have ruled the country for 31 years, but corruption, deforestation, land grabs and other social issues have become campaign issues. Hun Sen and the CPP want to prove they can institute reforms before the elections.
Yim Sovann, a spokesman for the rival Cambodia National Rescue Party, cast doubt on the moves.
“I can say, just wait and see. At least it is one step and that is better than nothing at all,” he said. “It’s better than the fact that there is no change at all.”
According to a list of proposed changes submitted to parliament, Hun Sen accepted the resignation of Foreign Minister Hor Namhong, who held the post for 18 years, a government spokesman told RFA’s Khmer Service.  Telecommunications Minister Prak Sokhon will succeed him, the spokesman said.
While Hor Namhong, 80, loses his foreign affairs portfolio, he retains the deputy prime minister title, government spokesman Phay Siphan explained.
Hor Namhong  chaired the controversial 2012 Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) meeting, in which he was accused of bowing to pressure from China to scuttle a joint ASEAN communique for the first time in its 45-year history.
Deputy Prime Minister Keat Chhon and Im Chhun Lim, the land management minister, are also resigning.
Commerce Minister Sun Chanthol will become transport minister, replacing Tram Iv Tek, who takes the telecommunications portfolio. Finance Minister Aun Porn Moniroth will be named a senior minister in addition to his current post.
Changes are also afoot at the ministries of land management, agriculture, rural and religious affairs.
Im Chhun Lim, the land management minister, is being replaced by Chea Sophara, who in turn will be replaced by rural affairs minister by Ouk Rabun, the outgoing agriculture minister.
Veng Sakhon, the secretary of state at the Water Resources Ministry, will take over for Rabun at the Agriculture Ministry.
Cults and Religion Minister Min Khin will switch positions with Him Chhem, a senior minister in charge of special missions.
Im Suosdey, who headed the National Election Committee until it was overhauled last year, has been appointed as a secretary of state at the Interior Ministry.
Reported for RFA’s Khmer Service by Sereyvuth Uong and Vuthy Tha. Translated by Pagnawath Khun. Written in English by Brooks Boleik.
Some North Korean restaurants in China are trying to boost their numbers of diners amid increasing financial difficulties resulting from strained relations between the two allies following the North’s recent nuclear test and missile launches, North Korean sources in China said.
The North Korean restaurants, faced with financial difficulties caused by the decrease in the number of clients, are desperately trying to find ways to attract more people and asking patrons to come again and bring others with them, the sources told RFA's Korean Service.
In February, North Korea defied international warnings and launched a long-range rocket just a month after testing a nuclear device, resulting in condemnation from the international community and harsh new sanctions by the United Nations Security Council. The sanctions prompted North Korean leader Kim Jong Un to order his military to be in “preemptive attack” mode, ready to use its nuclear weapons at any time.
“Ethnic Koreans in Yanbian enjoy going to North Korean restaurants on special occasions like birthdays because their palates are similar to those of North Koreans,” said a source, referring to the autonomous prefecture in northeastern China's Jilin Province just north of the border with North Korea.
“The food there is not that great, but the restaurant-goers especially enjoy the singing and dancing of young North Korean waitresses,” the source said. “But because of the tense political situation after North Korea’s nuclear test and missile launch, the restaurants are mostly vacant.”
Many North Korean restaurants in Yanbian have downsized or relocated during winter, and locals believe most of the establishments in China might eventually close because they are not making money, he said.
Ethnic Koreans also visit North Korean restaurants out of curiosity about the North’s people who are isolated from the rest of the world, but they do not patronize the establishments often because of the lack of quality and quantity of food for the high-priced meals, he said.
But some North Korean restaurants that have spruced up their in-house shows and scaled down the size of their restaurants in light of dwindling finances, appear to be thriving, he said.
Such eateries have made an extra effort to attract more customers by poaching young North Korean women who work at other North Korean restaurants.
The North Korean restaurants that operate abroad serve as a source of foreign currency for the cash-strapped North Korean government to which they reportedly must remit tens to hundreds of thousands of U.S. dollars annually.
One popular chain of restaurants aptly named Pyongyang after the North Korean capital operates restaurants mainly in China near the North Korean border, but has been expanding since early this century to other Asian countries, including Cambodia, Vietnam, Laos, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Mongolia and Bangladesh.
The restaurant chain is owned and operated by Korea Pyongyang Haedanghwa Food Stuff Company Ltd., a North Korean government entity and employs staff from North Korea who are closely monitored by security agents of the regime.
Pyongyang’s famous Okryugwan, or Okryu Restaurant, also has outlets throughout China and other Asian countries, including Vietnam, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Mongolia and Russia.
The restaurants serve Korean food, including kimchi, a fermented vegetable side dish, Pyongyang-style cold noodles known as raengmyeon in North Korea, dog meat soup, and kalbi, grilled dishes made with marinated beef short ribs, as young North Korean women in traditional choson dresses play instruments and sing karaoke.




North Korean waitresses perform in front of a large menu at a North Korean restaurant in Dandong, northeastern China's Liaoning province, Feb. 11, 2013. Credit: AFP
Send in the ladies
A North Korean defector who had recently visited a North Korean restaurant in China told RFA that quite a few customers were dining there, although he had expected it to be empty.
He also said he was not afraid to eat in the North Korean restaurant because there were no security guards manning the entrance, which made him feel welcome.
The defector ordered Pyongyang-style cold noodle soup “out of nostalgia for the food from my childhood,” he said, but lamented that few diners in the place actually watched the performance.
“As more customers came in, [restaurant staff] made phone calls to other North Korean restaurants to request that more ladies be sent for the new customers,” the source said.
North Korean restaurants that have opened in countries further afield have failed to thrive.
The Pyongyang restaurant chain made a brief and unsuccessful foray into Western Europe in 2012 by opening a branch in Amsterdam, which later closed because of a spat between the Dutch co-owners and their North Korean staff who claimed they were were being exploited and improperly compensated, according to media reports.
The restaurant reopened at the end of 2013 under the name Haedanghwa Korean Restaurant, but closed the following year.
Reports surfaced in January 2015 that the Pyongyang chain was considering opening a restaurant in Edinburgh, Scotland, but North Korea denied it.
Written by Jieun Kim for RFA’s Korean Service. Translated by Hee Jung Yang. Written in English by Roseanne Gerin.
A Chinese journalist, linked to the publication of an open letter calling for President Xi Jinping's resignation, disappeared en route to Hong Kong where he was scheduled to speak at a university in the city, according to his friends and media reports.
The 41-year-old journalist Jia Jia failed to turn up at the Hong Kong City University on Thursday where he was booked to give a talk, an employee of the university confirmed to RFA’s Chinese Service. "We don't know what the situation is," the employee said. "All we know is that he didn't show up." Jia's last known phone call was made at around 8.00 p.m. on Tuesday at Beijing International Airport shortly after he went through immigration and as he waited to board a flight to Hong Kong, the city's Apple Daily newspaper quoted his wife as saying.
His wife tried to call him back 15 minutes later, but Jia's phone had been switched off by then, the report said, adding that it was unclear whether he was detained in the Beijing airport departure lounge or after he arrived in Hong Kong.
According to the New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), Jia told friends that he believed the police were looking for him in relation to a March 4 open letter published on the Watching News website calling for Xi's resignation.
Jia also said that the police had gone to the homes of several of his relatives, asking them about his level of involvement with the letter, CPJ said in a statement on its website, citing Jia's New York-based friend Wen Yunchao.
The open letter, signed by "loyal party members," accused Xi of abandoning a decades-long consensus of collective leadership at the highest echelons of the ruling Chinese Communist Party and concentrating power in his own hands.
Jia is based in Beijing and had recently worked a number of freelance jobs including writing a column at online media portal Tencent and editing news for the Initium Media website.
Huang Jie, an associate of Jia's, said he believed Jia's disappearance is likely connected to the letter, rather than being a temporary security measure linked to the March 5-15 parliamentary session.
"It's because of that letter telling Xi Jinping to step down, that was published on Watching News," Huang told RFA. "I heard that it was posted by a hacker and that Jia Jia and his friends called up Ouyang Hongliang as soon as they saw it and told him to take it down."
"When the affair was investigated, it was Jia who was called in for questioning."
Huang said the incident sent shock waves through the Chinese media.
"Everyone in media circles knew that Jia Jia is incommunicado, and that's how the news got out."
An employee who answered the phone at Watching News confirmed that the letter was posted on the site through hacking techniques.
"All we know right now is that there was an incident in which our site came under attack," the employee said. "Our bosses haven't told us anything." "They are still investigating the matter, and the results haven't been announced yet." According to CPJ, Watching News is jointly owned by the private companies SEEC Media Group and Alibaba, and the government of Xinjiang, in northwestern China. "It is highly unusual for such critical material to appear on a partially government-owned news website," the CPJ said. Chen Ping, a former colleague of Jia's at the isunaffairs.com news website, said Jai wasn't a harsh critic of the government. "He wasn't very hard-hitting, nor did he offer harsh or progressive criticisms," Chen said. "I think the Chinese Communist Party is seeing enemies everywhere." "Jia was in favor of a united front and in favor of tradition,” he said. “I don't know how the government got like this, with its continual process of stability maintenance which in itself keeps pushing people towards a subversive position.”
Fear for safety Guangzhou-based independent writer Ye Du, a close friend of Jia's, said he had feared for his friend even before his disappearance. “I had a feeling this might happen, because he told us that his relatives got visits from the authorities," Ye said. "I think that open letter really shocked the leadership." CPJ Asia program coordinator Bob Dietz said the group is "deeply concerned" for Jia. "If he is in police custody, officials must disclose where they are holding him and why," Dietz said in a statement. "If anyone else knows where he is, they should step forward and clarify this worrisome mystery." Jia wouldn't be the first in the media and publishing industry to run afoul of China's president. Last November, political cartoonist Jiang Yefei was repatriated from Thailand after he drew cartoons ridiculing Xi.  Hong Kong bookseller and Swedish national GUI Minhai was detained in Thailand and brought back to make a "confession" on state television after he planned a book that claimed to reveal details of Xi's early love life. Four of his colleagues are currently "helping police with an investigation" after disappearing from Hong Kong in opaque circumstances. Reported by Wong Siu-san and Pan Jiaqing for RFA's Cantonese Service, and by Yang Fan for the Mandarin Service. Translated and written in English by Luisetta Mudie.
If proverbs are shorthand for real life, then this year's parliamentary sessions were the proverbial pot of congee that is fouled by a single rat dropping.The congee, of course, refers to the annual meetings of the National People's Congress (NPC) and the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) [held from March 3-15].And the rat dropping is the list of 21 banned topics issued by the [ruling] Chinese Communist Party's central propaganda department to journalists covering the parliamentary meetings.They weren't allowed to write about smog, although it's clearly the talk of the whole country.Neither were they allowed to write about the economy, other than to say nice things about it. Doubts and other news was a no-go area.Even tighter strictures were laid on the reporting of religion. For example, they couldn't criticize or question the removal of crosses from thousands of churches across a single province, which I imagine is supposed to be a commendable feat.Party controls the mediaI wonder who exactly came up with these 21 banned items. Nobody has admitted doing so. Perhaps they want us to be uncertain.But if, as we all know, the media belongs to the party, then such directives are unlikely to come from outside it.So the meaning of the rat dropping is that any news or opinions that the party doesn't want to hear are forbidden.And the effects of this directive don't end with the media. They will have inevitably had an impact on delegates to the NPC and the CPPCC, and on those who run it and report to it.If the powers that be have already dictated what shall not be said, then why would the NPC and the CPPCC bring trouble down on their own heads by debating those things in a logical and persuasive manner?It would be surprising if this sudden directive didn't also silence any voices outside the NPC and the CPPCC.Thousands of deaf earsAnd so, a petition from 144 citizens calling on the NPC to open a public inquiry into the detention of large numbers of human rights lawyers since July 9, 2015 fell on several thousand deaf ears.And when 12 countries on the United Nations Human Rights Council—including Australia, Britain, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, Norway, the Netherlands, Sweden, and the United States—issued a statement highly critical of China's human rights record, with particular concern over the detention of rights activists, civil society leader, and lawyers, they met with indifference from several thousand delegates.And when the governor of a province vowed to the NPC that no workers would be owed wages on his watch, and tens of thousands of miners with nothing to live on took to the streets of a certain city in his province to denounce him as a liar, we heard nothing from the worthies of the NPC and the CPPCC.So much money, time and, energy is spent on these parliamentary sessions. They could easily be a success. But all it takes is for a single rat to use the congee pot as a toilet; all it takes is one piece of shit—"banning different points of view"—and the whole thing is spoiled.It's a stark and sad contrast to the theoretical retreats run by [then premier] Hu Yaobang in 1979, where no topics were off-limits for discussion.They told people not to hold back, and things worked out pretty well, until [then supreme leader] Deng Xiaoping got a rush of blood to the head and imposed the four principles of socialism and four no-go areas on us.That single rat dropping from Deng ruined the whole pot of congee.Translated by Luisetta Mudie.Bao Tong, former political aide to the late ousted premier Zhao Ziyang, is currently under house arrest at his home in Beijing.
Myanmar’s president-elect Htin Kyaw on Thursday submitted a proposal to parliament to reduce the number of government ministries to 21 from 36 and create a new ethnic affairs ministry in keeping with Aung San Suu Kyi’s pledge to make government leaner and more inclusive.
Under the plan, which lawmakers will begin debating on Friday, the six ministries under the President’s Office would be combined into one, while other ministries would be eliminated or merged.
The Information Ministry, the mouthpiece of the current government under President Thein Sein’s military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party, would remain in place.
“We had 36 ministries, but not every ministry had work to do,” said Khin San Hlaing, a lawmaker from the National League for Democracy (NLD). “Some had a lot of work, but others just had a few projects. I’m happy because now we can use less money from the budget to fund fewer ministries.”
The new ministries will be established after Htin Kyaw, NLD chairwoman Aung San Suu Kyi’s proxy president, is sworn in on March 30.
The NLD has said that no workers will be laid off in the ministry reshuffle, although last week it indicated that some civil servants would have to undergo training.
“As Daw [honorific] Aung San Suu Kyi already said, government workers don’t need to worry,” said NLD lawmaker Tun Tun Hein. “Although some ministries are merging, the staff will be reshuffled at suitable ministries.”
The only new ministry will be responsible for ethnic affairs and was created to realize Aung San Suu Kyi’s plan for peace and national reconciliation by bringing together diverse ethnic minority groups and ending the fighting between some of the armed ethnic groups and the government army.
“It is very good to have the Ministry of Ethnic Affairs because we need to work on national reconciliation and ethnic unity,” said Tu Ja, chairman of the Kachin State Democracy Party.
Naing Han Thar, chairman of the Mon New State Party, said the ministry would forge better relations among ethnic groups.
“It’s good to have this Ethnic Affairs Ministry that can build trust among all ethnics,” he said.
Each of Myanmar’s 14 states and regions already has an ethnic affairs minister. But the ethnic groups themselves want the most suitable one among them, and who is not a member of the dominant ethnic Bamar group, to be the national ethnic affairs minister, said Saw Than Myint, chairman of the Federal Union Party, which includes former members of 16 ethnic political parties and is influential in northern Myanmar’s Shan state.
The government army has clashed with armed ethnic groups in Shan, northern Kachin, and western Rakhine states in recent months, forcing tens of thousands of civilians to flee their homes. Hostilities also have ensued between different ethnic militias in certain parts of the country.
“The most important problem in our country is fighting between military and armed ethnic groups,” said Naing Soe Myint, secretary of the Mon National Party. “The Ministry of Ethnic Affairs should solve this problem first.”
The current government signed a nationwide cease-fire agreement with eight armed ethnic groups last October, but several other groups either refused to join the pact or were excluded from it because of their clashes with the national army.
“We don’t have peace in our country because of the conflicts between Burmese [army] and ethnic groups,” said lawmaker Ba Shein of the Arakan National Party. “People will have hope if the new Ministry of Ethnic Affairs can do something for building peace. That ministry could do something for peace if the new government gives it the authority to do so.”




Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, commander-in-chief of Myanmar's armed forces, delivers a speech at a government peace conference in Naypyidaw, Jan. 12, 2016. Credit: AFP
Military-controlled ministries
The NLD, which will take over the government on April 1, will nominate 18 ministers, while military commander-in-chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, will nominate the remaining three for the ministries of defense, home affairs and border affairs in accordance with Myanmar’s constitution, which was written in 2008 when a military junta governed the country.
The names of the ministers will be announced after March 20, said NLD spokesman Zaw Myint Maung.
Aung San Suu Kyi has long been at odds with the military, which opposed changes she wanted to make to the constitution that would have reduced its power in parliament and allowed her to become president.
She is barred from the top office by a constitutional provision inserted by the military when the junta ruled the country, which prohibits anyone with foreign-born relatives from becoming president.
She has met with Min Aung Hlaing three times since the NLD won national elections last November to discuss the transfer of power to the new government led by her party, although pundits speculated that the meetings were ineffectual.
Nevertheless, some observers believe that Htin Kyaw and other NLD lawmakers will not oppose Min Aung Hlaing’s ministerial nominations.
“I think there is less possibility for the president and Union parliament to reject the names of these ministers which military chief will nominate, because Daw Aung San Suu Kyi has made building trust with the military a priority now,” said political commentator Yan Myo Thein.
Reported by Win Naung Toe, Win Ko Ko Latt, Thinn Thiri and Wai Mar Tun for RFA’s Myanmar Service. Translated by Khet Mar. Written in English by Roseanne Gerin.
Beijing’s plan to build the world’s highest ski resort near the Tibetan capital of Lhasa is raising concern among some environmentalists who wonder why the Chinese would build where there is little snow.
Nestled in the Himalaya Mountains at nearly 12,000 feet, the capital of the Tibet Autonomous Prefecture is the perfect spot for a ski resort, China feels, but Tenpa Gyaltsen, director of the Environmental Section at the Tibet Policy Institute tells RFA’s Tibetan Service there is little snowfall there to support a resort.
“In the official Chinese news it is stated that the resort will be developed near Lhasa, but there aren’t any snow mountains near Lhasa,” said Gyaltsen, who is based in Dharamsala, India. “If they transport the snow from somewhere else, how would this impact Tibet’s melting glaciers?”
The ski resort is included as an important part of China's 13th Five Year Plan, the state-linked China Daily reported on Feb. 24. Approved this week by the National People's Congress, it is another example of the nation’s hopes for its ski slopes.
China is estimated to have 450 ski resorts, and the country is banking on the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing to give snow sports a boost, according to reports.  The Jade Dragon Snow Mountain resort near Lijiang in southwestern China's Yunnan province is the current record holder for the world’s highest ski resort.
Snow is not Gyaltsen’s only concern. As usual with Chinese development projects in the region, information is difficult to find, he said.
“Lack of transparency and accountability for Chinese developers is a major source of problems both in Tibet and China,” he said.  “It is important to know who the stakeholders are, and if this project will be tainted with corruption as is the norm on many others.”
There are also questions about who will ultimately reap the benefits of the resort, Gyaltsen told RFA.
“While any development that benefits the Tibet region is welcome, the concern is whether the Chinese developer has done any professional risk assessment and the required study that takes into account the long and short-term geosocial, cultural, and environmental impact of such a project,” he said.
“The main purpose of such project is for economic benefit,” he added. “But how much will the local Tibetans benefit?”
Tibetan supporters say the benefits will trickle down, and that Lhasa is a natural choice for a resort because it is near five mountains higher than 26,000 feet, more than 70 mountains higher than about 23,000 feet, and no fewer than 1,000 mountains higher than about 20,000 feet.
"With an average altitude of 4,500 meters above sea level, Tibet is rich in unique natural resources for ice and snow sports," Nyima Tsering, deputy director of the region's sports bureau told the China Daily.
A contract has already been signed between the sports bureaus of Tibet and China's Heilongjiang province to aid in the training of Tibetan talent, China Daily reported.
Tsering contends that a ski resort near Lhasa will encourage young people to take on a winter sport.
"Just as China is new to the winter sports game, Tibet also has a long way to go," he told China Daily, adding that he hopes "to see the faces of Tibetan skiers" at the 2022 Winter Olympics.
Reported and translated by Dorjee Damdul. Written in English by Brooks Boliek.