2014-07~09
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2014/09/11/peoples-war-on-terrorism-in-china-turns-lucrative-with-one-million-yuan-rewards/

‘People’s War’ on Terrorism in China Turns Lucrative With One Million Yuan Rewards - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
Officials in Urumqi, stung by two deadly attacks this year against civilians in the northwestern Chinese city, are offering cash rewards of up to 1 million yuan ($163,000) for anyone who tips off local authorities about suspicious activity linked to terrorism and religious extremism.
The program, announced Tuesday after its enactment on Sept. 1, seeks to create “collective security and governance” in the capital of China’s restive region of Xinjiang and foster a communal effort in curbing terrorism, according to the state-run Xinjiang Daily.
Authorities would pay informants between 1,000 yuan and 1 million yuan for tipoffs regarding groups and individuals involved in planning, inciting and executing acts of terrorism; the provision of logistical support for such activities; the manufacture and transportation of arms, explosives and other weapons; as well as the propagation and sales of extremist religious material; among other subversive activities.
The sizes of rewards would be assessed based on the value of information provided, the Xinjiang Daily said, citing an official notice issued across Urumqi. The maximum payout is reserved for information that lead to tips that help avert mass-casualty situations and serious damage to property, the newspaper said.
Officials in Xinjiang have in the past dangled cash rewards to procure intelligence on what they say are terrorism and extremist religious activity in the region, which has often been the stage for violence between ethnic Uighurs, a mainly Muslim group, and China’s dominant Han Chinese population.
In April, the state-run Global Times reported that authorities in Xinjiang’s Shaya county were offering rewards to people who supply information about “potential hazards to society,” such as by reporting on neighbors wearing beards or conducting “illegal religious activities.”
A Xinjiang separatist movement has periodically targeted the government and police for decades, though in the past year violent attacks have picked up and — unlike previous incidents — also begun targeting civilians. Authorities say Xinjiang separatists were behind a March train station attack in the southwestern city of Kunming that left 33 dead.
Urumqi itself has been hit twice this year by deadly attacks against civilians, which officials believe were also carried out by Uighur separatists. In late April, a knife and bomb attack at Urumqi’s main railway station killed three and injured 79. The following month, men drove cars into a street-side market and detonated explosives, leaving 43 dead and wounding 94.
China’s government typically blames ethnic violence on separatist groups with links to al Qaeda. Uighur activists overseas, however, cite concern over restrictions on religious practices, as well as frustration with the large waves of Han Chinese that have moved to a region Uighurs consider their homeland.
— Chun Han Wong. Follow him on Twitter at @ByChunHan
_____________________________________
Far From Home: Survey Says Living Apart From Families Leads Many to Corruption
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

Kinda pointless, as even a Chinese peasant would turn in his own innocent mother for a chance at that reward money.
If the CCP could only protect the informants, and not let them get gunned down by the terrorists, then the Beijing idiots wouldn't have to resort to another blunder like this in Xinjiang.
Easy to see why China is already losing to the terrorists.
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
