2014-07~09
http://news.yahoo.com/top-asian-news-11-00-m-gmt-110212561.html

Top Asian News at 11:30 a.m. GMT - Yahoo News
CANBERRA, Australia (AP) — The Islamic State plot to carry out random beheadings in Sydney alleged by police is a simple and barbaric scheme that has shaken Australians. But terrorism experts on Friday questioned whether the ruthless movement had the capacity or inclination to sustain a terror campaign so far from the Middle East. Police said they thwarted such a plot by detaining suspects and raiding more than a dozen properties across Sydney on Thursday.
NEW YORK (AP) — Chinese e-commerce powerhouse Alibaba will say "open sesame" to the New York Stock Exchange on Friday, as its shares begin trading in a highly anticipated debut that could raise up to $25 billion. The company priced its initial public offering of stock Thursday evening at $68 per share, the top end of the expected price range, according to Alibaba. The shares will trade under the ticker "BABA" on the NYSE. The IPO values Alibaba at $167.62 billion. That's bigger than the current market value of companies such as Amazon, Cisco, and eBay.
HONG KONG (AP) — When Jack Ma founded Alibaba 15 years ago he insisted the e-commerce venture should see itself as competing against Silicon Valley, not other Chinese companies. That bold ambition from a time when China was still a corporate backwater has been vindicated this week by Alibaba completing a mammoth sale of shares to investors in the U.S. and elsewhere. Charismatic by the gray standards of Chinese CEOs, the elfin Ma is nicknamed "Crazy Jack" and is seen as China's version of Steve Jobs, Jeff Bezos or Bill Gates. Ma used his entrepreneurial wits to build up an e-commerce giant in stark contrast to the state owned companies that became behemoths because of Communist Party policies and ties to the political elite.
BEIJING (AP) — Drug maker GlaxoSmithKline was fined $492 million on Friday for bribing doctors in China in the biggest such penalty ever imposed by a Chinese court. The court sentenced the company's former China manager, Briton Mark Reilly, and four Chinese co-defendants to prison but postponed the sentences for two to four years, suggesting they may never be served. The court said it granted leniency because the defendants confessed.
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) — A police spokesman in Afghanistan says a bomb blast killed six people and wounded 12 shortly after they left a mosque following Friday prayers. Jawad Basharat, the spokesman for Baghlan province's police chief, said the Friday blast occurred just outside the mosque. He said it wasn't clear who carried out the attack. Baghlan is in Afghanistan's north, which is generally less violent than the south and east.
MANILA, Philippines (AP) — Torrential monsoon rains worsened by a tropical storm flooded large swathes of the Philippine capital and nearby provinces Friday, leaving at least three people dead and displacing tens of thousands just days after the region was drenched by a typhoon. Authorities said more than 470,000 residents of Metro Manila and other provinces were affected in severely inundated communities. At least 37,000 people in the capital were displaced in one of the worst floods in the sprawling metropolis of 12 million in recent years.
BALI, Indonesia (AP) — An American man has confessed that he killed his girlfriend's mother in a luxury hotel on Indonesia's Bali island, and the girlfriend has acknowledged helping him stuff the body into a suitcase, police said Friday. Heather Mack, 19, and her boyfriend Tommy Schaefer, 21, both from Chicago, were arrested in Bali on Aug. 13, a day after the body of Sheila von Wiese-Mack was found in a suitcase inside the trunk of a taxi at the St. Regis Bali Resort.
BEIJING (AP) — China's best-known artist dissident Ai Weiwei blasted his country's Communist government for losing its principles and using underhanded ploys to try to silence critics. The bearded artist, whose supporters say he was hit with a $2.4 million tax bill in retribution for his outspokenness and activism, also criticized fellow Chinese artists for failing to speak up while he was singled out.
WELLINGTON, New Zealand (AP) — A heated campaign has been running for weeks in New Zealand, but when people go to the polls Saturday, there will be no discussion of the election in the newspapers, on Twitter or even in song. At least until the polls close.
TOKYO (AP) — The first Kuro, or black, burger had a signature black bun and sauce. Last year's edition, the Kuro Ninja, added a slice of (non-black) bacon to the signature black components. Now Burger King Japan is going black on black. The fast-food chain added black cheese and deepened the color of the other ingredients in the special burger duo added to menus Friday. Marketing Manager Kana Ienega said Burger King Japan wants people to try the burger and find it tasty even though it may look unappetizing at first.
INCHEON, South Korea (AP) — North Korea is making a statement on the international sports stage — a fashion statement. Standing tall in the land of K-pop and Gangnam style, the North's top athletes have been looking decidedly sharper than usual at the Asian Games hosted by rival South Korea, with pink candy-striped ties, azure slacks and, of course, the accessory that pulls every good North Korean ensemble together, those bright red Kim lapel pins.
SYDNEY (AP) — Crews will resume the underwater hunt for missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 at the end of the month, and will begin the search in an area farther south than initially planned, a senior search official said Friday. The search had been due to start next week, but the first of three ships that will scour a remote patch of the Indian Ocean for the plane that vanished in March needed to undergo some additional work in Indonesia, Australian Transport Safety Bureau Chief Commissioner Martin Dolan said. The ship, Malaysia's GO Phoenix, is now expected to begin searching on Sept. 30.
NEW DELHI (AP) — A news anchor for India's state TV channel has been fired after she referred to Chinese President Xi Jinping as "Eleven" Jingping — apparently mistaking his name for a Roman numeral, a top official at the station said Friday. Xi left for China on Friday after a three-day visit to India, where he signed more than a dozen agreements to push trade and investment between the two Asian giants.
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia (AP) — A Malaysian court sentenced a student democracy activist to a year in jail on Friday after finding him guilty of sedition, drawing immediate condemnation from human rights groups who accuse the government of using the colonial-era law to stifle freedom of expression. Adam Adli was charged last year after making several statements at a political meeting following national elections, including one in which he urged people "go down to the streets to seize back our power."
MANILA, Philippines (AP) — The bulk of Filipino peacekeepers of more than 240 soldiers have pulled out two weeks early from the U.N. mission in the Golan Heights due to escalating fighting in the border region, the Philippine military said Friday. The 244 Filipino troops will arrive in Manila on a U.N.-chartered plane on Friday. A smaller batch of 85 soldiers will arrive Sunday from the Golan, ending a five-year Philippine peacekeeping role that has been marred by Syrian rebel kidnappings and attacks, military spokesman Lt. Col. Ramon Zagala said.