2014-07~09
http://jamaica-gleaner.com/gleaner/20140811/int/int4.html

INT'L NEWS in brief | World News | Jamaica Gleaner
Eighteen people who took part in violence that killed almost 100 people near China's border with Pakistan last month have handed themselves in to authorities, Chinese state media reported yesterday.
Authorities say a terrorist gang attacked a police station and government buildings in Shache county near Kashgar on July 28, killing 37 people before police shot dead 59 of the attackers.
Xinjiang has experienced rising unrest in recent months blamed on militants from the region's native Muslim Turkic Uighur ethnic group who are seeking to overthrow Chinese rule. Of the 37 civilians who were killed, 35 were Han Chinese and two were Uighur, according to the official Xinhua News Agency. It has not released any details about the attackers.
The Xinjiang Daily, the region's official newspaper, reported yesterday that 18 people had since surrendered because of a publicity campaign urging local people to provide tip-offs about who was involved in the violence. It said that most of the 18 were "ordinary people", some of whom had been instigated or coerced into taking part in the violence without knowing the reasons for it, and that because they had surrendered would be dealt with "leniently".
The region's official newspaper reported yesterday that 18 people had since surrendered because of a publicity campaign urging local people to provide tip-offs about who was involved in the violence.
Haiti's new permanent representative to the Organisation of American States (OAS), Bocchit Edmond, has presented his credentials to OAS Secretary General, José Miguel Insulza, reaffirming the commitment of his country to "continue working with the organisation in all projects that we share".
During a ceremony in the Hall of Heroes at OAS headquarters in Washington, D.C., Edmond pledged that Haiti "will always be a friend of the OAS".
Edmond, who for the past three years was Haiti's deputy permanent representative to the hemispheric body, said Haiti "has faith in the OAS" and in its future.
In addition to being Haiti's permanent representative to the OAS, Edmond is the vice-chair of the Committee on Juridical and Political Affairs of the OAS.
Insulza thanked the Haitian government for Edmond's appointment, recalling the "good work done" by his predecessor and current minister of foreign affairs, Duly Brutus.
The OAS chief said the relationship of the hemispheric institution with the Caribbean francophone country is "very important", praising what he described as "the exemplary work" of the OAS Group of Friends of Haiti.