2014-07~09
http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/world/2014/09/16/china-trial-uigher-ilham-tohti/15717565/

China tries top Uighur scholar on separatism charge
Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
BEIJING – An outspoken scholar from China's Uighur minority, who criticized government policy in the nation's restive Xinjiang region, faces trial Wednesday on charges that he sought to split up China.
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Ilham Tohti, an outspoken scholar of China's Turkic Uighur ethnic minority, speaks during an interview at his home in Beijing on Feb. 4, 2013.(Photo: Andy Wong, AP)
BEIJING — An outspoken scholar from China's Uighur minority, who criticized government policy in the restive Xinjiang region, faces trial Wednesday on charges that he sought to split up China.
If convicted, Ilham Tohti could be sentenced up to life imprisonment for his alleged separatist activities, his lawyer said Tuesday.
Tohti, 45, a Beijing-based economics professor at China's main university for ethnic minorities, also ran a website called Uighur Online, which was often shut down for its discussion of policies affecting the Uighur (WEE-gur), a mostly Muslim people who call Xinjiang home.
Although Tohti did not advocate for Xinjiang's independence, Beijing appears set to punish him for years of peaceful dissent as one of China's most prominent Uighurs. The trial comes amid a nationwide crackdown against separatists and terrorists that authorities blame for a series of violent incidents that have killed more than 300 people in the past year.
A court in Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang, will try Tohti on Wednesday morning, lawyer Li Fangping said.
"We are not optimistic," said Li, who expects the trial to extend beyond one day. Most of the charges are based on essays and articles posted on Uighur Online, Li said, "but we have seen no evidence that supports the charges of separatism."
His defense team will argue that the trial should be held in Beijing, the Chinese capital, where Tohti has lived for more than 20 years. He was seized in Beijing in January and moved to Xinjiang, where the case will be "more complicated," Li said.
China's courts, controlled by the ruling Communist Party, boast a near 100% conviction rate in criminal cases.
Tohti is charged with leading and organizing seven university students who worked on Uighur Online to "undermine the unity of the country," an offense that carries a punishment from 10 years to life imprisonment.
Tohti rejects the charges against both him and the students, and believes their case, to be tried separately, should be combined with his, Li said. "Tohti said they are targeted because they are Uighur, while other students of Han and Hui nationality who worked on the website have had no action taken against them," he said.
Tohti has been kept in ankle shackles for over a month, said Li, who met him in an Urumqi detention center Monday. Li said Tohti has a cold, but "his mentality is still quite good, given his environment, and he remains positive."
His daughter, Jewher Ilham, 19, who studies in the United States, told a congressional hearing in April that her father opposed violence and was not a separatist. Tohti and his daughter both had tickets to fly to the U.S. last year, but he was stopped at the Beijing airport. Chinese authorities commonly limit the freedoms of government critics.
Tohti's criticisms of Chinese policy in Xinjiang "are very measured and mild compared with Han Chinese dissidents," said Maya Wang, a Hong Kong-based researcher for Human Rights Watch. "The potentially heavy sentence suggests even the mildest criticism will not be tolerated," she said. "If Tohti is treated like this, one can only imagine what is happening to Uighurs in Xinjiang who have much less position and power."
The trial "demonstrates how hard the hard-liners have become," said Michael Clarke, an expert on Xinjiang at Australia's Griffith University. "That somebody like Tohti, who's spent a lot of his time within the system, presenting himself almost as a loyal critic of the government, can be so mistreated, is symbolic of the hard line."
In a 2010 interview with USA TODAY, Tohti said Xinjiang — officially called the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region — and its Uighur people are governed by "beautifully written laws on autonomy," but those rules are rarely applied. His interviews with foreign media form part of the state's case against Tohti, Li said Tuesday.