2014-07~09
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2014/09/17/bad-timing-china-activists-trial-opens-with-u-s-envoy-in-town/

Bad Timing: China Activist’s Trial Opens With U.S. Envoy in Town - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
Oftentimes, foreign diplomats in China will try to bring attention to dissident trials by showing up at the courts. Sometimes, if they’re the U.S. ambassador, they can shine a spotlight just by being in the neighborhood.
The latter was the case on Wednesday, when U.S. China envoy Max Baucus happened to be in Urumqi, capital of northwestern China’s Xinjiang region, at the same time as a local court was trying economist and Uighur rights activist Ilham Tohti on charges of separatism.
A persistent critic of China’s ethnic policies, Mr. Tohti stands accused of promoting violence and ethnic hatred between Uighurs, a mostly Muslim ethnic group from Xinjiang, and the country’s dominant Han Chinese. Numerous activists and scholars describe the charges – which Mr. Tohti denies – as an attempt by the Chinese government to snuff out even moderate dissent amid a surge in ethnic violence.
Mr. Tohti had been planning to take up a post as a visiting scholar at Indiana University in 2013 when he was stopped at the Beijing airport. His daughter, who was allowed to board the flight, is now a student at the university.
It’s rare for a top U.S. diplomat to attempt to attend trials in China unless they involve U.S. citizens, and indeed, Mr. Baucus appears to have been in the city for other reasons. An embassy spokesman said the ambassador was in Xinjiang on a pre-arranged trip, leading a trade delegation of U.S. tech and energy companies.
“He is also meeting with Xinjiang officials and residents and visiting sites of interest to learn more about local conditions and Uighur culture in Xinjiang,” the spokesman said.
Even so, the ambassador’s presence in the city helped focus attention on a case of concern to State Department, which has issued numerous statements calling for Mr. Tohti’s release since he was detained in January.
“Professor Tohti has consistently supported human rights for China ethnic Uighur citizens,” the embassy spokesman said. “His arrest silenced an important Uighur voice that peacefully promoted harmony and understanding among China’s ethnic groups, particularly Uighurs. We stress the importance of Chinese authorities differentiating between peaceful dissent and violent extremism.”
The embassy said it had made a request for one of its representatives to attend Mr. Tohti’s trial but did not receive a response.
China has consistently rejected U.S. criticism of its treatment of dissidents, saying foreign countries should refrain from interfering in China’s affairs.
The trial runs through Thursday. Mr. Tohti could face life in prison, according to his lawyers.
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

@desperado
It appears you know nothing about American politics, individuals there have about the same chance of making a difference to the political make up of the country as you do to China.
but ultimately, you have to deal with China yourself preferably peacefully and that starts with you telling your violent ones to step back or it means you need to solve that problem yourself because China can't hear you over the sirens going off every time there is another knife attack at a public place.
He was born days after Pearl Harbor to an established Montana ranching family - a state which has one of the lowest rates of foreigner residents and he lost a nephew who served in Iraq.
Uighurs bomb and knife civilians - they don't CARE who they hurt and they blame it on China being insensitive to their beards, their headgear, their holy days.
You know, that kind of insensitivity doesn't kill you or your families but your chosen response is to KILL.
The American people now cannot count on Obama to do any righteous thing. They, and the free world, could only look forward to having a much tougher President to arise in the next election.
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
