2014-07~09
http://www.state.gov/secretary/remarks/2014/09/232026.htm

Conviction and Sentencing of Ilham Tohti
Please choose a country or other area, Region, or U.S. State.
Home »
 Secretary of State John Kerry » Secretary Kerry's Remarks » 2014 Secretary Kerry's Remarks » Remarks by Secretary Kerry: September 2014 » Conviction and Sentencing of Ilham Tohti
The United States is deeply disturbed that Ilham Tohti has been convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment.
This harsh sentence appears to be retribution for Professor Tohti’s peaceful efforts to promote human rights for China’s ethnic Uighur citizens.
Ilham Tohti is known to the world for his many years working to foster mutual understanding, tolerance, and dialogue to peacefully promote harmony and unity between Uighurs and Han Chinese. His detention silenced an important moderate Uighur voice.
Mr. Tohti and those like him are indispensable in helping to resolve the underlying causes of unrest and violence. Silencing them can only make tensions worse.
I have raised Professor Tohti’s case repeatedly, including during the U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue in July. Ambassador Baucus reiterated our calls for Professor Tohti’s release just last week during his visit to Xinjiang. And we again urge the Chinese authorities to release Professor Tohti, as well as his students who remain in detention.
They deserve the protections and freedoms to which they are entitled under China’s international human rights commitments and its own constitution.
Differentiating between peaceful dissent and violent extremism is vital to any effective efforts to counter terrorism.
The Office of Website Management, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department.
 External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.
Do you already have an account on one of these sites? Click the logo to sign in and create your own customized State Department page. Want to learn more? Check out our FAQ!
Because JavaScript is disabled, you can only sign in by entering your OpenID URL manually:
OpenID is a service that allows you to sign in to many different websites using a single identity.
 Find out more about OpenID and how to get an OpenID-enabled account.