2014-07~09
http://www.iranherald.com/index.php/sid/224299255

US 'Concerned' Over Indictment of Uighur Academic - Iran Herald
The United States has called on China to release Uighur rights activist and economics professor Ilham Tohti, who was charged Wednesday with separatism two days after clashes in Xinjiang that caused dozens of casualties. The head of a U.S./based Uighur group said the Muslim Uighur community is rising up against China's recently-announced crackdown.
U.S. State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf Wednesday expressed concern about Ilham Tohti's indictment, as well as his detention and that of six students since January:
"We have been deeply concerned about the lack of transparency concerning his welfare and access to legal representation. We call on Chinese authorities to release Mr. Tohti and his students and to guarantee them the protections and freedoms to which they are entitled under China's international human rights commitments, including freedom of expression," said Harf.
China's state-run Global Times newspaper said the former lecturer at Beijing's Central Nationalities University, detained January 15 and transferred to Xinjiang, was charged Wednesday with separatism for reportedly having close ties to the World Uighur Congress, which it said advocates the independence of Xinjiang. Police also say Tohti has connections with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which has been designated a terrorist group.
According to state media, Tohti has described Muslim Uighur protesters as heroes and instigated students to hate China and its government. He is said to have been arrested several times for spreading rumors.
Michael Clarke, senior research fellow at Australia's Griffith Asia Institute, said while he expected Tohti to be indicted, he is surprised his trial will be heard in the Intermediate People's Court in Urumqi.
"In most cases, particularly high-profile cases like this, a conviction is pretty much a guarantee here and the problem with that is the charge of separatism, or inciting separatism, can technically carry the death penalty under Chinese law," explained Clarke. "Whether or not that will be the case in this circumstance, obviously, is unclear at the present."
Clarke said Tohti has never engaged in any activity that might be defined as separatism or inciting separatism. "In fact, in his position as a professor of economics in Beijing, he was quite a moderate spokesman for Uighur autonomy and a reasonably moderate critic of the government's approach to Xinjiang more broadly. The government, however, has charged him with a variety of things, and they've also accused him of using his position as a professor, and I'm quoting the official story here, to make rumors, distort and hype up stories to create conflicts, spread separatist thinking, incite ethnic hatred, advocate Xinjiang independence and conduct separatist activities," he said.
Alim Seytoff, president of the Uighur American Association, said the timing of the indictment may be a way that Chinese authorities can deflect attention away from the latest violence in the restive western autonomous region that borders Central Asia. Seytoff said Tohti has been detained incommunicado (unable to communicate) for six months.
"And, he was even chained by the Chinese prison authorities and he was denied food for 10 days. So, he was abused and mistreated by the Chinese authorities," Seytoff stated.
Seytoff said Tohti had operated a website aimed at reconciling the Uighur and Chinese peoples and sought to change China's policy of, what Seytoff calls, heavy-handed repression in Xinjiang.
On a visit to Xinjiang in April, President Xi Jinping called for "decisive actions" to "resolutely repress the terrorists' rampant momentum."
Tuesday, China reported that dozens of civilians had been killed or wounded in what it calls a terrorist attack Monday in Xinjiang's Kashgar Prefecture. It said a gang armed with knives attacked a police station and government offices, as well as civilians, and smashed vehicles. It said police responded by shooting dozens of members of the mob. It said its initial investigation concluded it was a premeditated terror attack.
Seytoff said the police action is part of China's year-long anti-terror campaign initiated by President Xi.
"The Chinese government restricted the fasting during the holy [Muslim] month of Ramadan, which is one of the five pillars of Islam. Instead, the Chinese security forces went house-to-house searching Uighurs who were fasting, harassing them at night, locking up Uighurs who prayed, and even killed a family of Uighurs," he said. "As a result of this mass grievance and anger toward Chinese security forces, especially extra-judicial use of force, they took to the streets to protest against brutality."
Seytoff said this is a reflection of what he called Uighur "collective discontent" and said both peaceful and violent actions are happening throughout the Uighur community. He acknowledged he is fearful of another crackdown similar to what occurred in July, 2009, when some 200 people were killed in the regional capital, Urumqi.
In May, at least 31 people were killed when two cars crashed through an Urumqi market and explosives were thrown. In March, a mass stabbing at a Kunming train station blamed on Muslim extremists wielding knives killed 29 people. In all, nearly 200 people have been killed in ongoing violence tied to the Uighur community in China this year.
RBTH: Do you think the Russian withdrawal will encourage all sides to comply with the ceasefire regime?
Noah Bonsey: It's too early to guess the exact impact of the Russian announcement because we don't know yet what will be withdrawn and when. We don't know yet to what extent this announcement will lead to Russia stopping or diminishing its air attacks in Syria.
If Russia does indeed stop its aerial attacks and withdraw some of its assets from Syria that would add credibility to the Russian role in the political process in Geneva.
It would make it easier for the opposition to negotiate and would improve the atmosphere of the negotiations. If Russia carries its decision out, it is a potentially positive step for the political process.
RBTH: Will Russia have less control over events in Syria as it withdraws?
N.B.: Russia will maintain a strong role within the political process. The decision to withdraw strengthens its role. It gives Russia more credibility in the eyes of the opposition and more leverage over the regime.
We don't know yet to what extent the Russian announcement is linked to disagreements, some of which have been voiced publicly, with the Assad regime. Russia's withdrawal appears to be a signal to Damascus that it cannot take the Russian support for granted.
The withdrawal will give Russia more leverage over Damascus. Russia is showing that if the regime is not prepared to make the concessions that Russia has asked of it, then Russia is in a position to remove its military support. Up until now the regime was very inflexible. But Russia's announcement could give Moscow more leverage to pressure the regime for concessions.
RBTH: How did Russia's military campaign affect terrorist groups in Syria?
N.B.: Russia's intervention strengthened the regime's position in Syria. It enabled the regime and allied militias to gain ground in some key areas. However, most of those gains were not against ISIS or Jabhat al Nusra but against mainstream armed groups that received support from Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and the U.S., and that participated in the political process.
RBTH: Has Russia's military inflicted any damage on Islamic State (ISIS)?
N.B.: ISIS has been weakened in Syria in recent months. But it is more the result of Kurdish YPG (People's Protection Units) military operations supported by the U.S and is not a direct result of Russia's intervention.
Most of Russia's intervention has been directed against other, primarily non-jihadist groups, but also against Jabhat al Nusra. In a couple of small cases regime gains against ISIS have been possible thanks to the Russian support.
RBTH: How would you evaluate Russia's role in the Syrian conflict?
N.B.: We do not know what the political impact of the Russian decision will be. But it is clear that Russia has played a leading role in enforcing the cessation of hostilities. It has led to a decline in violence on the ground in the last two weeks and it has helped to give some small momentum to the political process in Geneva.
Whether the cessation of hostilities and the meetings in Geneva can actually lead towards a political resolution is a much more difficult question. To get there it will require Russia to compel the regime to make major compromises. We have not yet seen this up to this point. A key variable to watch in the coming weeks will be the regime's political behavior and how Russia responds to it.
The big question in terms of the impact of the Russian announcement is whether Russia ceases its air attacks. If the Russian air force stops conducting strikes in Syria, that would have major repercussions on the ground, because the regime has been very dependent upon the Russian air force in its recent military gains.
If Russia is ceasing its air attacks that will make it much more difficult for the regime to move forward, gaining more ground. It will make the Assad regime more dependent upon its ground forces and militia forces provided by Iran and Hezbollah.
RBTH: How successful has the U.S.-led coalition been in conducting its operation in Syria?
N.B.: The U.S.-led coalition in Syria is focused narrowly on combating ISIS in support of Kurdish YPG forces. To a lesser extent the U.S. supports local Arab and rebel forces who have allied with the YPG and with the U.S.-led coalition.
Most of the fighting has been done by the Kurdish YPG forces in eastern Syria. There have been some significant advances in recent weeks. Recently they took the town of Al-Shaddadah in northeast Syria. But the coalition on the ground is not well equipped to continue advancing in eastern Syria, a territory mostly inhabited by Arabs rather than Kurds. This puts the U.S.'s efforts at a crossroad in eastern Syria.
TEHRAN, Iran In a fresh flare-up against the United States, Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah ...
Washington - Vice President Joe Biden says the United States is watching Iran "like a ...
Tehran - Iran's Supreme Leader says Washington has continued its animosity toward Tehran, despite a ...
Tehran, March 20 (IANS) Iranian President Hassan Rouhani's upcoming visit to Pakistan would provide an ...
Mumbai, March 20 (IANS) On the occasion of Navroz, Bollywood celebrities took to social media ...
Get the latest Iran Herald headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Iran Herald - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved