2014-07~09
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2014-09-18/chinese-uighur-scholar-ilham-tohti-goes-on-trial-in-xinjiang-for-separatism/1369449

Chinese Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti goes on trial in Xinjiang for separatism | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
Prominent Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti has gone on trial for separatism amid tight security in the Chinese city of Urumqi.
Mr Tohti is accused of being a leading member of a criminal organisation and advocating independence for the country's western Xinjiang region.
The economics professor is known as a vocal critic of the government's policies.
Police set up a two-block cordon around the court and blocked access to reporters and a group Western diplomats who sought to observe the trial.
The case has attracted international outcry, with the United States and the European Union calling for Mr Tohti's release.
His lawyer, Li Fangping, has rejected the evidence presented by Chinese prosecutors.
"Most of the students said Professor Tohti had separatist goals or intentions," Mr Li told Reuters after the first day in court in Xinjiang's capital, Urumqi.
"We believe they weren't trustworthy statements, that they were made under pressure."
Seven of Mr Tohti's students, who had worked on a website he managed, were also detained after his arrest in Beijing on January 15.
Beijing has blamed a series of violent attacks in Xinjiang and around the country on Islamist militants and separatists.
But activists counter that the government's repressive policies have provoked unrest, pitting Muslim Uighurs against China's ethnic Han majority.
Mr Tohti has repeatedly denied the charges, which carry a sentence of 10 years to life in prison, or a maximum punishment of death in extreme cases.
He has said he "relied only on pen and paper to diplomatically request" human rights and legal rights for Uighurs.
Human Rights Watch has called the trial a "travesty of justice" and the exiled World Uyghur Congress said his prosecution would only intensify ethnic conflict in the country.
China's foreign ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, said at a press briefing that "China's judicial organs will try the relevant case on the basis of facts in accordance with the law".
The ruling Communist Party tightly controls courts and guilty verdicts in such cases are typically a foregone conclusion.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.