2014-07~09
http://www.indiagazette.com/index.php/sid/225225081

Anti-Terror Drills Highlight China's Push Into Central Asia - India Gazette
BEIJING- China, Russia and several central Asian countries, all members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, or SCO, have just wrapped up a massive round of anti terrorism military drills in Inner Mongolia. The joint exercises follow a year of multiple terrorist attacks inside China, mostly in its restive Xinjiang region that borders central Asia.
At least 7,000 troops from five countries participated in the joint exercises dubbed "Peace Mission 2014." Chinese state media say a key objective of the combat-like drills is crushing a terrorist organization that is plotting attacks to divide the country and is supported by other terrorist groups overseas.
The exercises were the biggest yet for the regional grouping and incorporated tanks, fighter jets, early-warning aircraft, air defense missiles and even drones.
Raffaello Pantucci, is a senior fellow with the Royal United Services Institute.
"These exercises were originally just an offshoot of the SCO, which is a sort of a regional confidence building measures organization and something the Chinese wanted to use to help build their connections regionally and allow them to steadily develop, they are slowly turning into something, a really useful exercise for them," said Pantucci.
The exercises used to jokingly be referred to as an opportunity for Russia to show off its hardware to its customers. And China had a difficult time interacting with the other militaries as most participants were from Central Asia and together with Moscow shared a common language of Russian. But that is changing, Pantucci says.
"The Chinese have gotten very good about sending Russian speaking officers increasingly to these exercises. The balance of these exercises has distinctly shifted from something where the Chinese were kind of the outsiders," he said.
For the most part, China used its hosting of the drills to highlight what it regards as a serious growing threat from terrorism and religious extremism in Xinjiang. Just as the exercises began, China executed eight people accused of carrying out terrorist attacks in remote Xinjiang. It also released never before seen footage of the alleged mastermind of an attack on Tiananmen Square in Beijing late last year.
Alexander Cooley is a Central Asia analyst and political scientist at Columbia University.
"The SCO almost from its outset adopted the Chinese normative framework of combating the three evils - terrorism, separatism and extremism and that became part of the SCO's mission. So, the security cooperation actually pre-dated economic plans, but China would really like to see the SCO become the multi-lateral veil through which it conducts most of its business in Central Asia," said Cooley.
China's economic and security engagement with Central Asia has been booming since the Shanghai Cooperative Organization was established in 2001.
Since then, annual trade with the region has grown from less than $1 billion a year to more than $70 billion annually. And while China says the SCO is not a military alliance, the security component of the relationship is being watched ever closer now as the United States withdraws from Afghanistan and Beijing weighs its future relationship with Kabul.
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): A delegation of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) met President Pranab Mukherjee on Monday evening to apprise him of the Uttarakhand crisis, while demanding that Chief Minister Harish Rawat should be allowed to prove his majority on March 28 as fixed by the Governor, and not before that.
Interacting with reporters outside the Rashtrapati Bhavan here, leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad accused the Centre of forcing Governor K.K. Paul to advance the session and to ask the Chief Minister prove majority before March 28. "The Governor has already set a deadline for the Uttarakhand Government to prove their majority, hence, we urged the President that the Chief Minister should be allowed to prove his majority on March 28 as fixed by the Governor, and not before that," he said.
"The Centre did not give a chance to the Congress Government in Arunachal Pradesh to prove their majority, and the same should not happen with the Uttarakhand Government," Azad added.
"We apprised the President how the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with the help of the Central Government is trying to trample democratically elected Opposition parties-ruled governments, especially Congress Governments, in various states," said Azad.
A few weeks back, he said, the Congress Government in Arunachal was brought down, and now the effort is on to overthrow the Uttarakhand Government.
"We informed the President that BJP leaders held our MLAs captive in a bus against their wishes, and produced them before Governor K.K. Paul and now forcing them to issue statements. The 26 BJP MLAs from Uttarakhand have made nine helpless Congress MLAs their captive. We are concerned about their safety," said Azad.
Earlier on Friday, rejecting the Opposition's claim that the ruling Congress Government has slipped into minority after its nine MLAs defected, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Harish Rawat said his government was in majority and if the opposition has any doubt, they should bring a no confidence motion.
However, the BJP claimed that it would stake claim for the formation of a government in the state as the Rawat government was in minority. BJP's national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya told ANI on Friday that 35 legislators - 26 BJP and nine Congress rebels - would be meeting the Uttarakhand Governor K.K. Paul at Raj Bhawan to stake claim for the formation of a government. (ANI)

Geneva 21 March 2016 (WMO) - The year 2015 made history, with shattered temperature records, ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): Taking potshot at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Congress on ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): A delegation of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) met ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): The Government of India which accords utmost importance to the ...
Get the latest India Gazette headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 India Gazette - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved