2014-07~09
http://www.centralasiatimes.com/index.php/sid/225249577/scat/929bcf2071e81801

Peace Mission - 2014 military drill ends in China's Inner Mongolia - Central Asia Times
Chinese soldiers attend the closing ceremony of the Peace Mission - 2014 military drill in Zhurihe, North China's Inner Mongolia autonomous region, Aug 29, 2014. The drill, involving over 7,000 personnel from China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, member countries of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), and expected to hone multilateral decision-making, sharpen joint anti-terror efforts and boost intelligence sharing to ensure regional peace and stability, ended Friday along with the first edition of the SCO military tattoo. [Photo/Xinhua]
Agra, March 21 (IANS) Five students of the Central Hindi Institute here accused of eating beef have been identified but officials denied the charges saying they were now on a holiday.
The alleged 'beef-eating' photos went viral on Friday night. But institute officials said the five students were not in Agra now.
The five are Mubeer Khan from Tajikistan, Ivan Nilochovski from Bulgaria, Rezwan from Afghanistan, Zuyod Hakumov from Uzbekistan and Mert Koc from Turkey, according to officials.
Authorities said the district administration conducted an inquiry and found nothing of substance in the complaint.
An eight-member panel set up by the institute also found no evidence of meat being cooked in the hostel premises.
An official spokesperson said prima facie there was nothing objectionable but more details would be ascertained when the five return from holidays.
Meanwhile, Hindutva groups continued to protest here. Members of the Hindu Yuva Vahini met institute officials and demanded firm action against the alleged "culprits".
The Central Hindi Institute is an educational arm of the union human resource development ministry. The institute has hundreds of foreign students learning Hindi.
"Most students who come from different countries are used to eating meat and have a different lifestyle. They are here to learn Hindi and later act as India's ambassadors in their countries," said a teacher, refusing to be identified by name.
"What impression of India will they carry back home?" he asked.

The results of Kazakhstan's lackluster parliamentary elections are in and they show that three parties ...
Exit polls from Kazakhstan's parliamentary elections suggest President Nursultan Nazarbaev's ruling party has won 82 ...
Observers from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) say Kazakhstan's parliamentary elections ...
Agra, March 21 (IANS) Five students of the Central Hindi Institute here accused of eating ...
BISHKEK -- Kyrgyzstan says Turkey has extradited a man suspected of attacking a well-known Kyrgyz ...
Get the latest Central Asia Times headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Central Asia Times - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved