2014-07~09
http://www.oklahomastar.com/index.php/sid/224299255

US 'Concerned' Over Indictment of Uighur Academic - Oklahoma Star
The United States has called on China to release Uighur rights activist and economics professor Ilham Tohti, who was charged Wednesday with separatism two days after clashes in Xinjiang that caused dozens of casualties. The head of a U.S./based Uighur group said the Muslim Uighur community is rising up against China's recently-announced crackdown.
U.S. State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf Wednesday expressed concern about Ilham Tohti's indictment, as well as his detention and that of six students since January:
"We have been deeply concerned about the lack of transparency concerning his welfare and access to legal representation. We call on Chinese authorities to release Mr. Tohti and his students and to guarantee them the protections and freedoms to which they are entitled under China's international human rights commitments, including freedom of expression," said Harf.
China's state-run Global Times newspaper said the former lecturer at Beijing's Central Nationalities University, detained January 15 and transferred to Xinjiang, was charged Wednesday with separatism for reportedly having close ties to the World Uighur Congress, which it said advocates the independence of Xinjiang. Police also say Tohti has connections with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which has been designated a terrorist group.
According to state media, Tohti has described Muslim Uighur protesters as heroes and instigated students to hate China and its government. He is said to have been arrested several times for spreading rumors.
Michael Clarke, senior research fellow at Australia's Griffith Asia Institute, said while he expected Tohti to be indicted, he is surprised his trial will be heard in the Intermediate People's Court in Urumqi.
"In most cases, particularly high-profile cases like this, a conviction is pretty much a guarantee here and the problem with that is the charge of separatism, or inciting separatism, can technically carry the death penalty under Chinese law," explained Clarke. "Whether or not that will be the case in this circumstance, obviously, is unclear at the present."
Clarke said Tohti has never engaged in any activity that might be defined as separatism or inciting separatism. "In fact, in his position as a professor of economics in Beijing, he was quite a moderate spokesman for Uighur autonomy and a reasonably moderate critic of the government's approach to Xinjiang more broadly. The government, however, has charged him with a variety of things, and they've also accused him of using his position as a professor, and I'm quoting the official story here, to make rumors, distort and hype up stories to create conflicts, spread separatist thinking, incite ethnic hatred, advocate Xinjiang independence and conduct separatist activities," he said.
Alim Seytoff, president of the Uighur American Association, said the timing of the indictment may be a way that Chinese authorities can deflect attention away from the latest violence in the restive western autonomous region that borders Central Asia. Seytoff said Tohti has been detained incommunicado (unable to communicate) for six months.
"And, he was even chained by the Chinese prison authorities and he was denied food for 10 days. So, he was abused and mistreated by the Chinese authorities," Seytoff stated.
Seytoff said Tohti had operated a website aimed at reconciling the Uighur and Chinese peoples and sought to change China's policy of, what Seytoff calls, heavy-handed repression in Xinjiang.
On a visit to Xinjiang in April, President Xi Jinping called for "decisive actions" to "resolutely repress the terrorists' rampant momentum."
Tuesday, China reported that dozens of civilians had been killed or wounded in what it calls a terrorist attack Monday in Xinjiang's Kashgar Prefecture. It said a gang armed with knives attacked a police station and government offices, as well as civilians, and smashed vehicles. It said police responded by shooting dozens of members of the mob. It said its initial investigation concluded it was a premeditated terror attack.
Seytoff said the police action is part of China's year-long anti-terror campaign initiated by President Xi.
"The Chinese government restricted the fasting during the holy [Muslim] month of Ramadan, which is one of the five pillars of Islam. Instead, the Chinese security forces went house-to-house searching Uighurs who were fasting, harassing them at night, locking up Uighurs who prayed, and even killed a family of Uighurs," he said. "As a result of this mass grievance and anger toward Chinese security forces, especially extra-judicial use of force, they took to the streets to protest against brutality."
Seytoff said this is a reflection of what he called Uighur "collective discontent" and said both peaceful and violent actions are happening throughout the Uighur community. He acknowledged he is fearful of another crackdown similar to what occurred in July, 2009, when some 200 people were killed in the regional capital, Urumqi.
In May, at least 31 people were killed when two cars crashed through an Urumqi market and explosives were thrown. In March, a mass stabbing at a Kunming train station blamed on Muslim extremists wielding knives killed 29 people. In all, nearly 200 people have been killed in ongoing violence tied to the Uighur community in China this year.
Washington - President Barack Obama nominated appeals court judge Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court on Wednesday, thrusting a respected moderate jurist and former prosecutor into the center of an election-year clash over the future of the nation's highest court.
Obama cast the 63-year-old Garland as "a serious man and an exemplary judge" deserving of a full hearing and a Senate confirmation vote, despite Republican vows to deny him both.
Standing in the White House Rose Garden with Garland, Obama argued the integrity of the court was at stake and appealed to the Senate to "play it straight" in filling the seat left vacant by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia.
"It's supposed to be above politics," Obama said of the high court. "It has to be. And it should stay that way."
Republican leaders, however, held to their refusal to consider any nominee, saying the seat should be filled by the next president after this year's election.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell spoke with Garland by phone but did not change his position that "the American people will have a voice." He said he would not be holding "a perfunctory meeting but he wished Judge Garland well," a spokesperson said.
Others in the GOP ranks were less wedded to the no-hearing, no-vote, not-even-a-meeting stance
- a sign that Republicans are aware the strategy could leave them branded as obstructionist.
Obama Selects Merrick Garland as Supreme Court Nominee https://t.co/f5rnTwzzQT via @VOANews
Unlike McConnell, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairperson Charles Grassley said he is open to meeting with Garland in the coming weeks, as did five other Republican senators, Rob Portman of Ohio, Jeff Flake of Arizona, Susan Collins of Maine, James Inhofe of Oklahoma and Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire. Others vowed to give his record a close look. The judge will begin visiting with Democratic senators on Thursday at the Capitol, before the Senate breaks for a two-week recess.
Scheduling courtesy meetings is a long way from securing a full hearing, much less winning the 60 votes needed for confirmation. Still, the White House seized the comments as evidence Garland's weighty resume and bipartisan credentials were putting pressure on Republicans.
Garland, aged 63, is the chief judge for the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, a court whose influence over federal policy and national security matters has made it a proving ground for potential justices.
A graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School, Garland has clerked for two appointees of Republican President Dwight D Eisenhower, the liberal Justice William Brennan Jr as well as Judge Henry J Friendly, for whom Chief Justice John Roberts also clerked.
As a federal prosecutor, he made his reputation overseeing the investigation and prosecutions in the Oklahoma City bombing case in 1995, as well as the case against Unabomber Ted Kaczynski.
When confirmed to the DC Circuit in 1997, Garland won backing from a majority in both parties, including seven current Republicans senators.
As a replacement for Scalia, Garland would undoubtedly shift the court away from its conservative tilt. He would be expected to align with the more liberal members on environmental regulation, labor disputes and campaign finance.
The DC Circuit isn't a hotbed for cases on social issues, leaving few solid indicators of Garland's views on abortion rights or the death penalty.
Garland's involvement in two high-profile gun rights cases has prompted concern from gun control opponents. In 2007, Garland wanted the full court to reconsider a panel decision that struck down Washington, DC's ban on handgun ownership. But Garland never took a position on the merits of the case.
In 2000, he was part of a 2-1 majority that said the FBI could retain gun purchase records for six months to make sure the computerised instant background check system was working. The FBI's position was challenged by the National Rifle Association and other gun rights groups.
But he is not viewed as a down-the-line liberal. He's ruled against giving the District of Columbia a vote in Congress. Particularly on criminal defense and national security cases, he's earned a reputation as centrist with a law-and-order streak, siding more often with prosecutors.
When his name was floated for the Supreme Court in the past, it was liberal groups that expressed concerns, pointing to early decisions favoring the government in disputes over the legal rights of detainees at the Guantanamo Bay prison.
Progressives and civil rights activists also had pushed the president to name an African-American woman or to otherwise expand the court's diversity. Obama passed over appeals court Judge Sri Srinivasan, who would have been the first Asian-American justice, and Judge Paul Watford, who would have been the second African-American on the current court.
Garland, a white, male jurist with an Ivy League pedigree and a career largely in the upper echelon of Washington's legal elite breaks no barriers. He would be the oldest Supreme Court nominee since Lewis Powell, who was 64 when he was confirmed in 1971.
In emotional remarks in the Rose Garden, he choked back tears, calling the nomination "the greatest honor of my life." He described his grandparents' flight from anti-Semitism in Eastern Europe and his modest upbringing. He said he viewed a judge's job as a mandate to set aside personal preferences and "follow the law, not make it."
Obama quoted past praise for Garland from Roberts and Sen. Orrin Hatch. In 2010, Hatch said he could be confirmed to the highest court "virtually unanimously."
Garland has experience with a prolonged confirmation process. He waited 2frac12; years to win confirmation to the appeals court. Then, as now, one of the men blocking his path was Grassley, who argued he had no quarrel with Garland's credentials but objected to a Democratic president trying to fill an appeals court he felt had too many seats.
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Supreme Court won't take up a dispute over whether an image ...
WASHINGTON - <br> The U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear a marijuana case against Colorado ...
TULSA, Oklahoma - <br> Starting this week, Oklahoma lawmakers will address suggested changes to education ...
TULSA, Oklahoma - <br> A motorcycle crash shut down the northbound lanes of the Tisdale ...
EDMOND, Oklahoma - <br> A former Edmond missionary sentenced to 40 years in prison for ...
Get the latest Oklahoma Star headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Oklahoma Star - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved