2014-07~09
http://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/comment/smh-editorial/asio-needs-more-muslim-recruits-20140826-108m8f.html

ASIO needs more Muslim recruits
Conflating Islam and terrorism is a mistake, and increases the alienation of some militarised Muslims, writes Paul Sheehan.
The world now has proliferating self-declared caliphates. In Nigeria, Boko Haram militants, who have murdered thousands since 2009, declared an Islamic caliphate in a town in the north-east of the country. In a video made by the group's leader, Abubakar Shekau, he praised the leader of the Islamic State, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who has declared an Islamic caliphate across parts of Syria and Iraq. In Yemen, an affiliate of al-Qaeda  has announced it will declare a caliphate in territory it controls.
It is not clear if these groups will follow the self-proclaimed authority of the Islamic State leader, al-Baghdadi, who has declared himself "the caliph" and thus "leader of Muslims everywhere". What their rhetoric shows is the power of social media to link and motivate like-minded people across borders and cultures.
In the new Boko Haram video, Shekau shows disdain for France, Israel, the US and western values: "Democracy is worse than homosexuality, worse than sleeping with your mother. You are all pagans and we will kill you, even if you do not attack us we will kill you ... Allah commands us to kill without pity".
There has been pitiless violence in the past week involving groups which invoke Islam to justify their violence. In China over the weekend, eight Muslim activists were executed by the government for their roles in a series of terrorist attacks by Uighur separatists, including a car bombing in Tiananmen Square in Beijing. In Gaza, Hamas executed 20 Palestinians who it claimed had been collaborators with Israel. Six were executed by masked men in a central square outside a mosque after Friday prayers. In Libya, Islamic extremists have taken control of the country's main airport. In Syria and Iraq, the Islamic State continues to brutalise civilian populations.  
Even Australia has been drawn into this chaos by the actions of local Muslims who have gone to Syria and Iraq to join the fight, on both sides of this sectarian schism between Sunni and Shiite Muslims.
In the context of this bloodshed there is a reductionist reaction, fuelled by some media reports, to conflate Islam and terrorism. This is a mistake. Among the estimated 1.6 billion Muslims in the world, only the wildest fringes engage in mayhem. Those who invoke passages in the Koran to justify carnage are vastly outnumbered by Muslims who do not practice or condone violence.
Demonising Islam only serves to encourage some Muslims to feel victimised, marginalised and drawn towards the allure of defending the honour of Muslims through violence. Last week, the head of ASIO, David Irvine, set the right tone when he said: "We are not fighting Islam, we are fighting terrorism. And they're two very, very different things. It just doesn't make sense and frankly it's an outrage to my sense of being an Australian that we would claim to be fighting Islam".
"We only understand a community with the help of that community," he said. "We will make mistakes and we do make mistakes and ... I would actually like more members of the Australian Muslim community working in ASIO. That will help us understand better, but this is an organisation that is designed to protect you and you should be part of it."
He said the government was committed to working with the diverse Muslims communities and seeking to enlist them in a sense of partnership to prevent violence and alienation among Muslims in Australia. He urged Muslims to consult the government about concerns over new terrorism laws declaring "no-go zones" which would oblige travellers to those regions to prove they are not terrorists.
Irvine's message was repeated by Prime Minister Tony Abbott in his meetings with Muslim leaders last week. It is the right message.  It cannot be said often enough than Islam is not synonymous with terrorism and Muslims should not be tarred by terrorists acting out their own psychoses.
We agree, too, that ASIO needs to recruit more Muslims into its service. Intelligence and counter-terrorism demand greater knowledge of Muslim communities, greater translation capacity, and a marked increase in the number of Arabic-speakers. Intelligence-gathering is not just about spying. It is also about comprehension.



 I understand that submission of this content is covered by the Conditions of Use by which I am bound and Commenting Guidelines are available for my reference.
 

Get notified when the big things happen. Sign up to our newsletter.