2014-07~09
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/8092/20140827/xinjiang-3d-animators-present-princess-fragrant-to-ease-unrest-in-china-s-restless-region.htm

Xinjiang 3D Animators Present ‘Princess Fragrant’ to Ease Unrest in China’s Restless Region : Society : Chinatopix
3D Cartoon protagonist Ipal Khan(Photo : Shenzhen Qianheng Cultural Communication Company)
At a restless time China's Xinjiang region where violent executions and clashes between the Chinese government and alleged Muslim extremists, a Disney-like 3D animated princess emerges.
With enough encouragement from the government, Shenzhen Qianheng Cultural Communication Company, a Chinese animation firm in Xinjiang has created Ipal Khan, a wide-eyed Uighur princess who is tasked to win the hearts of ethnic Uighurs and the dominant Han Chinese together.
The cartoon entitled "Princess Fragrant" is based on a popular tale of a girl from Kashgar City and has captivated a Chinese emperor with her enticing beauty and sweet fragrance during the 18th century.
According to the tale, the girl has fallen in love with the Emperor Qianlong and later became his cherished concubine.
"She is a figure that has contributed much to cross-cultural communication," Princess Fragrant Director Deng Jianglei stated adding that the cartoon is also made to promote the rich culture of the far northwestern region.
According to Deng, they have encountered several difficulties including finding a composer who was acquainted with both cultures as well as writing the plot itself in consideration of alternative versions of the story.
Though Chinese versions of the legend revolved around unity among the nation, newer Uighur interpretations present the female protagonist as an imperial sex slave who was later killed by the emperor's mother because of rejecting the Chinese leader's advances.
"(The cartoon) is a re-understanding of the friendship between Han and Uighurs, which is especially significant to the re-education of the children and teaching them to accept different cultures," he stated explaining that the story is created to both entertain the audience while fulfilling "political needs."
Deng's animation company, in cooperation with Kashgar government, is targeting to showcase the cartoon both in China and abroad, especially in the Muslim regions before 2015 ends.
Their aim is to at least ease tensions between the Uighur and Han cultures if not to put an end to the unrest that began far too long ago causing Uighurs to openly voice their dislike of the Han Chinese because the latter allegedly treat them with discrimination.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent rumors have emerged that Sacramento Kings All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins could finally move to the Los Angeles Lakers in the summer following his recent comments about the Hollywood squad’s young players after the two team’s recent game. read more