2014-07~09
http://www.thestar.com.my/News/Nation/2014/09/16/Uighur-terrorists-via-KL/

Uighur terrorists flew via KL to West Java, say Indonesian cops - Nation | The Star Online
JAKARTA: Indonesia’s anti-terrorism police who arrested four Chinese Uighur jihadists linked to the Islamic State terror group found that they used fake passports bought in Thailand and flew to Kuala Lumpur before heading to Bandung in West Java.
The elite Detachment 88 police squad arrested seven suspected terrorists, including the four individuals allegedly from China’s restive Xinjiang province, in conflict-prone Poso of Central Sulawesi over the weekend.
 It is alleged that the foreign nationals were planning to join a terrorist cell in Sulawesi where a number of groups and individuals, including radical cleric and convicted terrorist Abu Bakar Ba’asyir, are known to have voiced their support and raised funds for IS.
An estimated 100 Indonesians are believed to be fighting under the IS banner in Syria and Iraq.
Jakarta Post reported that the National Police were working to uncover the motives and backgrounds of the four foreigners, who are currently being held at the Mobile Brigade’s (Brimob) detention center in Depok, West Java.
National Police chief Gen. Sutarman said on Monday that police investigators had trouble finding interpreters for them as none of the suspects, identified as Ahmed Bozoghlan, A. Basyit, A. Bayram and Azubaidan, spoke English.
“We have coordinated with the Turkish Embassy in regard to the suspects’ fraudulent Turkish passports and we also asked [the embassy] to assign an interpreter. It turns out that they speak a different language. The suspects speak Uighur,” Sutarman said, referring to a Turkic language spoken by China’s Uighur ethnic group.
According to Sutarman, the four purchased fake Turkish passports, priced at US$1,000 each, in Thailand.
He said they took flights from Thailand to Kuala Lumpur and then to Bandung, West Java. The four took another flight to Makassar, South Sulawesi, where three Indonesian militants picked them up for a ride to Poso, he added.
Also on Monday, the police’s Densus 88 counterterrorism squad searched the rented house of the foreigners on Jl. Tangkasi, South Birobuli, South Palu subdistrict.
“Upon their arrival, they claimed that they came from Tojo Una-Una regency and are studying at a university in Palu,” the house owner, Willem, said during police questioning.
Willem said that the foreigners were rarely seen at home during the night.
The police detained one of the house’s tenants, whose identity was withheld.
The police went on to search the house of one of the three Indonesian suspects, identified as Saipul Prianta, Yudi Chandra and Mohammad Irfan, in Lambara, Tawaili in North Palu, located about 25 kilometers from the foreigners’ rented house. – The Jakarta Post/ANN

Tags / Keywords:
Uighur
 , 
 jihad
 , 
 Islamic State
 , 
 fake passports


Four suspected Indonesian IS militants deported while entering S'pore from JB

Copyright Â© 1995- Star Media Group Berhad (ROC 10894D)(Formerly known as Star Publications (Malaysia) Berhad)