2014-07~09
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2014-08-01/islamist-militants-armed-with-knives-axes-kill-imam-of-chinas-biggest-mosque-chinese-authorities-say/1351056

Islamist militants armed with knives, axes kill imam of China's biggest mosque, Chinese authorities say | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
Three suspected Islamist militants armed with knives and axes have killed the imam of China's biggest mosque in the western region of Xinjiang, authorities say, days after a knife-wielding gang attacked state buildings in the same region.
The men attacked the imam after morning prayers at the Id Kah Mosque in the old Silk Road city of Kashgar, the Xinjiang government said yesterday on its official news website.
All three attackers named by the government had ethnic Uighur names, and the imam, Juma Tayir, was a well-known pro-government Uighur.
Two of the attackers were later shot dead by police while the third was arrested, the Xinjiang government said.
The government said the three "were influenced by religious extremist thinking and plotted to raise their profile by doing something big."
In 2009, he backed the government after it quashed deadly riots in Xinjiang's capital, Urumqi, in which nearly 200 people were killed.
Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the exiled World Uyghur Congress, said the imam was known locally for cooperating with the government and helping them to monitor religious activities of the Uighurs.
"Local Uighurs suspected that he had a special relationship with China's ministry of public security," he said in emailed comments to Reuters.
Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people, has for years been beset by violence, which the government blames on Islamist militants or separatists who it says want to establish an independent state.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest, a claim Beijing denies.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.