2014-07~09
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/jul/13/china-police-matchboxes-xinjiang-uighur

Chinese police seize matchboxes in Xinjiang security crackdown | World news | The Guardian


Sunday 13 July 2014 12.27 EDT


Last modified on Tuesday 26 January 2016 03.41 EST


Police in China's Xinjiang region have seized tens of thousands of matchboxes in the latest stage of their security crackdown in the restive region, according to official notices.
Police have made hundreds of arrests, suspects have been paraded at a mass sentencing rally, and armed patrols have taken to the streets of cities across China after a spate of deadly attacks that authorities blame on Islamist extremists and separatists from the north-western region.
Critics argue that anger has been fuelled among Xinjiang's Uighur Muslim population by cultural and religious restrictions, large-scale Han migration and economic inequalities.
Religious controls appear to have been extended during Ramadan, with authorities ordering students and civil servants not to fast. Notices posted on the websites of colleges and government departments said the ban was intended to promote the wellbeing of young people and prevent educational institutions being used to promote religion.
Academics say that while such policies have been enforced in parts of Xinjiang for several years, they now appear to be more widespread and explicit. Uighur exiles have said such measures will increase tensions in the region.
Kashgar police said via an official social media account on Sunday that local police in Yarkant county, also known as Shache, had destroyed nearly 100,000 matchboxes recalled from shops, markets and hotels.
The same WeChat account said police in Kargilik or Yecheng county, also in Kashgar, had given residents disposable lighters in exchange for more than 6,000 confiscated matchboxes.
"The confiscation has enabled us to strengthen controls over important elements of public security and thus eliminate potential security threats," said a caption accompanying the photo of a large pile of boxes.
In Changji city, the police website said officers had destroyed 20,000 boxes "to ensure matches would not be used by terrorist groups and extremist individuals to conduct criminal activities".
It described the drive as part of attempts to manage dangerous goods that could be used to make explosive products.
It is not clear when the edicts against matches began: while most of the notices date from this week, The Securities Times reported in late May that a routine police check of hotels in Korla found one was providing matchboxes in guestrooms – a common practice in China, where smoking is widespread. Police confiscated 20 boxes and criticised the hotel's executives it said, citing a Xinjiang government-owned news portal.
That article said the sale and use of matches had been prohibited "according to relevant regulations", but did not specify whether the rules were local or applied across the region.
According to the Legal Daily, police in Aksu uncovered a gang plotting a terrorist attack involving explosives at about the same time, after receiving reports from the public that a suspicious man trying to buy matches fled when asked to provide his details.
A notice posted on the Aksu city government website this week offered awards of between 500 yuan (£5)and 500,000 yuan for providing information on what it deemed potential threats to social stability, ranging from unapproved preaching and sharing "reactionary" opinions online to murder and terrorist activities. It specifically called for information on activities that could be related to explosives, including the bulk purchase of matches.
Previous anti-terrorism measures have required people buying petrol to register their details with police.
Calls to the Xinjiang propaganda office rang unanswered on Sunday.
An employee at Yecheng police offices said its seizures were made after instructions from a higher level, but refused to elaborate on who had ordered the confiscations and hung up.
Sign in
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.


We’re doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.

Xinhua news agency reports gang armed with knives launched assualts on two towns, attacking civilians and burning vehicles