2014-07~09
http://www.fmprc.gov.cn/mfa_eng/xwfw_665399/s2510_665401/t1192153.shtml

Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Hong Lei's Regular Press Conference on September 17, 2014
At the invitation of Premier Li Keqiang of the State Council, Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of the Kingdom of Spain will pay an official visit to China from September 24 to 27.
In order to render further support to relevant African countries who are endeavoring to prevent and control the Ebola epidemic, the Chinese government dispatched yesterday a 59-strong medical team and a mobile lab of the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention to Sierra Leone in view of the actual need of the government of Sierra Leone and in response to the World Health Organization's call for support to Africa in containing Ebola. The team will carry out Ebola monitoring and help Sierra Leone build up its capacity of lab testing. The team will be based at the Sierra Leone-China Friendship Hospital built with the assistance of the Chinese government.
China is committed to fighting the Ebola epidemic with the international community. We have instantly provided medical supplies to Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea-Bissau. The dispatched Chinese medical workers are dedicated to their duty. There are 115 medical workers helping with and participating in the local prevention and control of the epidemic. With the 59 people added, the total number will be 174. This gives full expression to the friendship between China and Africa, which can be described as "a friend in need is a friend indeed". It also demonstrates Chinese people's spirit of international humanitarianism.
China is willing to join the international community in working for the effective prevention and control of the Ebola epidemic at an early date.
Q: It is reported that on September 16, the Ukrainian parliament voted in support of President Petro Poroshenko's plan to grant "special status" to parts of eastern Ukraine. A separate act was also adopted the same day to pardon militants from eastern Ukraine. What is China's comment?
A: China has noted that. We hope that all parties concerned can work toward the shared goal, ensure the effective implementation of the Minsk ceasefire agreement and push for the political settlement of the crisis in Ukraine.
Q: A member of the Russian parliament said yesterday that sanctions imposed by western countries on Russia will push Russia to build military alliance with China. What is China's comment on that?
A: China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination is based on mutual trust, mutual support, common prosperity and long-lasting friendship. Non-alliance, non-confrontation and not targeting the third party are the salient features of China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination, which will be upheld by China no matter how the international landscape changes. We will constantly enhance strategic mutual trust with Russia, promote mutually beneficial cooperation and strengthen our coordination and cooperation in international and regional affairs.
We are of the view that sanctions cannot solve the Ukrainian issue. The issue can only be resolved through political means. We hope that all parties can increase communication and make joint efforts for the political settlement of the Ukrainian issue.
Q: What is China's comment on the Scotland referendum that will be held tomorrow?
A: I made clear China's position yesterday. It falls within the domestic affairs of the UK. We have no comment on that.
Q: The Indonesian police has reportedly arrested 4 ethnic Uygurs on suspicion of committing terrorist activities. Can you give us more details? Has the Chinese side contacted the Indonesian side?
A: We have noted relevant report and are checking on that.
I need to point out that the East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM) not only plots terrorist attacks in China that undermine China's national security and social stability, but also gangs up with international terrorist forces to pose threats to regional and world security and stability. To crack down on the ETIM is a part of world counter-terrorism campaign. China is grateful for the understanding and support of the international community in China's fight against the ETIM. We stand ready to step up cooperation with countries around the world to jointly combat terrorist forces and safeguard peace and stability of the region and beyond.