2014-07~09
http://www.nigeriasun.com/index.php/sid/224299255

US 'Concerned' Over Indictment of Uighur Academic - Nigeria Sun
The United States has called on China to release Uighur rights activist and economics professor Ilham Tohti, who was charged Wednesday with separatism two days after clashes in Xinjiang that caused dozens of casualties. The head of a U.S./based Uighur group said the Muslim Uighur community is rising up against China's recently-announced crackdown.
U.S. State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf Wednesday expressed concern about Ilham Tohti's indictment, as well as his detention and that of six students since January:
"We have been deeply concerned about the lack of transparency concerning his welfare and access to legal representation. We call on Chinese authorities to release Mr. Tohti and his students and to guarantee them the protections and freedoms to which they are entitled under China's international human rights commitments, including freedom of expression," said Harf.
China's state-run Global Times newspaper said the former lecturer at Beijing's Central Nationalities University, detained January 15 and transferred to Xinjiang, was charged Wednesday with separatism for reportedly having close ties to the World Uighur Congress, which it said advocates the independence of Xinjiang. Police also say Tohti has connections with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which has been designated a terrorist group.
According to state media, Tohti has described Muslim Uighur protesters as heroes and instigated students to hate China and its government. He is said to have been arrested several times for spreading rumors.
Michael Clarke, senior research fellow at Australia's Griffith Asia Institute, said while he expected Tohti to be indicted, he is surprised his trial will be heard in the Intermediate People's Court in Urumqi.
"In most cases, particularly high-profile cases like this, a conviction is pretty much a guarantee here and the problem with that is the charge of separatism, or inciting separatism, can technically carry the death penalty under Chinese law," explained Clarke. "Whether or not that will be the case in this circumstance, obviously, is unclear at the present."
Clarke said Tohti has never engaged in any activity that might be defined as separatism or inciting separatism. "In fact, in his position as a professor of economics in Beijing, he was quite a moderate spokesman for Uighur autonomy and a reasonably moderate critic of the government's approach to Xinjiang more broadly. The government, however, has charged him with a variety of things, and they've also accused him of using his position as a professor, and I'm quoting the official story here, to make rumors, distort and hype up stories to create conflicts, spread separatist thinking, incite ethnic hatred, advocate Xinjiang independence and conduct separatist activities," he said.
Alim Seytoff, president of the Uighur American Association, said the timing of the indictment may be a way that Chinese authorities can deflect attention away from the latest violence in the restive western autonomous region that borders Central Asia. Seytoff said Tohti has been detained incommunicado (unable to communicate) for six months.
"And, he was even chained by the Chinese prison authorities and he was denied food for 10 days. So, he was abused and mistreated by the Chinese authorities," Seytoff stated.
Seytoff said Tohti had operated a website aimed at reconciling the Uighur and Chinese peoples and sought to change China's policy of, what Seytoff calls, heavy-handed repression in Xinjiang.
On a visit to Xinjiang in April, President Xi Jinping called for "decisive actions" to "resolutely repress the terrorists' rampant momentum."
Tuesday, China reported that dozens of civilians had been killed or wounded in what it calls a terrorist attack Monday in Xinjiang's Kashgar Prefecture. It said a gang armed with knives attacked a police station and government offices, as well as civilians, and smashed vehicles. It said police responded by shooting dozens of members of the mob. It said its initial investigation concluded it was a premeditated terror attack.
Seytoff said the police action is part of China's year-long anti-terror campaign initiated by President Xi.
"The Chinese government restricted the fasting during the holy [Muslim] month of Ramadan, which is one of the five pillars of Islam. Instead, the Chinese security forces went house-to-house searching Uighurs who were fasting, harassing them at night, locking up Uighurs who prayed, and even killed a family of Uighurs," he said. "As a result of this mass grievance and anger toward Chinese security forces, especially extra-judicial use of force, they took to the streets to protest against brutality."
Seytoff said this is a reflection of what he called Uighur "collective discontent" and said both peaceful and violent actions are happening throughout the Uighur community. He acknowledged he is fearful of another crackdown similar to what occurred in July, 2009, when some 200 people were killed in the regional capital, Urumqi.
In May, at least 31 people were killed when two cars crashed through an Urumqi market and explosives were thrown. In March, a mass stabbing at a Kunming train station blamed on Muslim extremists wielding knives killed 29 people. In all, nearly 200 people have been killed in ongoing violence tied to the Uighur community in China this year.
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Two men from Africa's Cameroon and Congo have been arrested for cheating a businessman of Rs.80 lakh on the pretext of cleaning dollars painted with black ink to their original form, police said on Monday.
Kamleu Nya Alain, a 43-year-old from Cameroon, and Mwanza Nawej Yesh, a 42-year-old from Congo, were arrested on Sunday near a hotel in Civil Lines area of north Delhi.
They have been booked on charges of dishonestly receiving stolen property and cheating under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, and also under the Foreigners Act.
Police said both the accused reside in Mehrauli area of south Delhi.
"Alain came to India in May 2015 and was staying here without a valid passport and visa. Yesh has been residing in India for the last three years without a valid passport and visa," Deputy Commissioner of Police Madhur Verma said.
He said police seized two packets containing black papers, claimed to contain $1 million each, five packets of photocopies of Indian rupees in the denomination of Rs.1,000, two bottles of chemical substances used to clean the black paper and a kit, used for demonstration to clients converting the black paper to white.
The two accused, in connivance with a man named Rozer, who also hails from an African country and is absconding so far, cheated Delhi businessman Aditya Bondwal to the tune of Rs.80 lakh on the pretext of providing him $1 million 'black dollars' by cleaning and changing it to the original form.
Police said Alain and Yesh came to India on tourist visas and met Rozer.
"They all planned to cheat Indians through this black dollar fraud. Rozer met Aditya Bondwal in Delhi during the India Africa Summit 2016. Rozer won his confidence and concocted a 'black dollar' story," the officer said.
Rozer showed interest in Bondwal's business and proposed to invest $1 million.
Rozer told Bondwal that his father Marafa Hamidou Yaya, who used to be the right-hand man of Cameroon President Paul Biya, was in jail since 2012 and all his accounts were blocked. And so he did not have any legal money.
In his next meeting, Rozer told Bondwal he has got $1 million painted with black ink.
Rozer said the money could pass through customs in only in its black form, but it can be changed into its original form by cleaning.
He took Rs.30 lakh from Bondwal in the name of cleaning the black dollars, saying a costly ink and powder were required for the purpose.
He then introduced Bondwal with both Alain and Yesh, saying they were experts in cleaning black dollars, police said.
Bondwal, who is a manufacturer of construction equipment, informed police that Alain and Yesh took Rs.50 lakh more from him.
The accused were asking more money from Bondwal, saying the quality of ink and powder was not that good, and so they needed to get better quality ink and for that purpose, they needed Rs.42 lakh more, police said.

MAIDUGURI, NIGERIA - Two female suicide bombers killed at least 24 worshipers and wounded 18 ...
COTONOU, BENIN - Benin's prime minister has phoned businessman Patrice Talon to concede defeat and ...
Lagos - Four people were killed in political violence that has forced the cancellation of ...
Cotonou - Businessman Patrice Talon won the second round of Benin's presidential election on Sunday, ...
Niamey - Niger's president is running for a second five-year term on Sunday against an ...
Get the latest Nigeria Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Nigeria Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved