2014-07~09
http://www.europesun.com/index.php/sid/224358097/scat/b8de8e630faf3631/ht/Nine-terror-suspects-killed-in-restive-Xinjiang

Nine 'terror suspects' killed in restive Xinjiang - Europe Sun
• It is battling friction between Han Chinese and Uyghurs
• The region has seen deadly violence in recent times
BEIJING, China - At least nine suspected militants were killed and one captured in China's restive Xinjiang region Friday, according to an official media report.
Citing police, Xinhua news agency said that the shooting took place in Hotan prefecture in the southern part of the vast region beset with a low intensity Islamist insurgency.
Xinhua described the dead and the lone captured person as "terror suspects". However, there were no other details available on who the suspects were or what they were accused of doing.
Chinese authorities and the media usually use terms like "terror gang" to describe Islamist militants or separatists.
The news agency said as the incident occurred in a rural area in Xinjiang's far south when some 30,000 civilians involved in a counter-terror operation with police saw "signs" of a terror gang in a corn field.
"Police and the 30,000 civilians in unison surrounded the terror gang, and forced them into an abandoned house," the Xinhua report said.
Explosive devices were thrown at both the police and civilians, and the police "took decisive action" and shot dead the attackers, the report said.
Xinhua said that the operation began Sunday when some people tipped off the police about the presence of the gang members in the area.
The incident comes four days after a violent attack in Shache county that left dozens killed and injured. More than 20 ethnic Uyghurss were shot dead by armed authorities while 10 were injured, according to Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the exile World Uyghur Congress.
A total of 13 Chinese security personnel were killed and injured and about 67 people were arrested, Raxit said.
On Wednesday, Jume Tahir, a government-appointed head of the largest mosque in China, was murdered after leading morning prayers.
Tahir was killed in the city of Kashgar by "three thugs influenced by religious extremist ideology", according to the Xinjiang government web portal Tianshan.
Xinjiang is home to the Muslim Uyghurs people, who speak a Turkic language. It has for years witnessed violence blamed on Islamist militants or separatists who it says want an independent state called East Turkestan.
The region is now home to more than eight million Han Chinese, up from 220,000 in 1949, and 10 million Uyghurs. Unemployment among Uyghurs is high, and they complain of discrimination and harsh treatment by security forces, according to the CNN.
Exiled Uyghurs groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest - a claim Beijing denies.
Chinese authorities have intensified security measures in Xinjiang after several recent attacks in the region, which has been the scene of ethnic strife between Uyghurs and Han Chinese.
Earlier this week, a gang wielding knives and axes killed and injured dozens of people in southern Xinjiang.
A suicide bombing in May killed 39 people at a street market in the region's capital, Urumqi. Another apparent suicide bombing left three dead in April at an Urumqi train station.
Waves of Han Chinese have flocked to the resource-rich region, fueling tensions with the Uyghurs, who regard themselves as culturally and ethnically closer the people of nations bordering western China, such as Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Pakistan and Afghanistan, according to the CNN.
Intercontinental ballistic missiles, a key element of the nuclear triad, remain the mainstay of Russia's nuclear deterrent forces to this day.
Based in silos and on mobile launchers, they stay on alert 24 hours a day across the vast territory from the Baltic Sea to the Pacific Ocean.
The missile shield is a guarantee of security for the country, and a whole military industry was established in Russia to serve it.
The main part of Russia's missile shield is the Votkinsk Plant, located in the foothills of the Urals.
During the single military products acceptance day, held under the chairmanship of President Vladimir Putin on March 11, 2016, the plant was appreciated among the most successful enterprises in the industry.
The Votkinsk Plant is one of the few Russian companies engaged in the production of intercontinental ballistic missiles, and the only one to manufacture the whole range of carriers employed by the Russian army.
Vladimir Putin inspects the Votkinsk plant's workshop. Source: Alexei Druzhinin / RIA Novosti
These are the main land-based missiles Topol-M and Yars as well as the Bulava missile, which was created for nuclear submarines, and the Iskander-M system - the newest tactical system for land forces.
The production of this complex technology is ensured by the advanced technical base, which is unique in Russia. In fact, the Votkinsk Plant is a generic name for several facilities including metallurgy, tool assembly and welding.
Together, they form a whole industrial area, surrounded by a city with a population of 100,000 people, with one in 10 residents working at the plant.
Until recently, the plant's many facilities were technically obsolete, but they have undergone a major modernization in recent years. A new thermal plant, where the hardening of the plant's whole production takes place, has been put in operation.
After the production upgrade in 2012, it was equipped with new electric furnaces, whose installation costs totaled $10 million. Metal cutting is carried out with the help of modern nanotechnology.
The metal casting laboratory produces high quality alloys that are used in the production of missiles. All these innovations have significantly increased the reputation of the Votkinsk Plant's products, almost completely eliminating the possibility of technical defects in recent years.
The modernization opened up new niches for the enterprise, which until now had nothing to do with its military production. Nevertheless, it previously manufactured some products for civilian use as well, including more exotic items such as baby strollers.
Defense industry conversion in the 1990s forced the plant's staff to develop fundamentally new directions. Today, its products include machinery and equipment for oil and gas and nuclear industries.
The Russia's first floating nuclear power plant. Source: Press photo
In 2009, the company started production of hydraulic shock absorbers for nuclear power plants, and, a year later, produced the components for the country's first floating nuclear power plant.
Today's modern facilities have little resemblance to the blacksmith and foundry workshops that started the history of the Votkinsk Plant in 1759.
Launched as a private company, it was located in an area rich in forests, which provided cheap fuel, and crossed with deep rivers, which served as convenient transport connections.
Soon the plant was transferred to the state, and, for the next 100 years, it specialized in producing high-grade armor steel. In 1858, its masters produced the metal spire for the Peter and Paul Cathedral in St. Petersburg, which has not been replaced ever since.
At the turn of the century, the plant became the center of military engineering, but it was during the Soviet years that it experienced its peak.
Until the mid-20th century, it was always the leading domestic artillery arsenal. Cannons manufactured by Votkinsk workers were actively employed by the Soviet army.
After 1957, the enterprise's capacities became involved in missile production. When the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty was signed in 1987, the Votkinsk Plant was specifically mentioned in the text of the agreement; the U.S. side has the right to carry out regular inspections of the plant's facilities and monitor its strategically important production.
Today, the Votkinsk Plant is still owned by the state and is one of the key participants in the implementation of the state defense order. Since 2013, it has nearly doubled the production of ballistic and tactical missiles.
ISTANBUL A Turkish militant with links to the Islamic State was the suicide bomber ...
BRUSSELS, Belgium - The arrest of Europe’s most-wanted man and the last known living operative ...
MADRID, Spain - Spain’s interior minister has confirmed that a bus travelling on a main ...
MADRID - The 13 students killed in a bus crash in northeastern Spain this weekend ...
Geneva 21 March 2016 (WMO) - The year 2015 made history, with shattered temperature records, ...
Get the latest Europe Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Europe Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved