2014-07~09
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2014/08/25/China-executes-8-including-3-involved-in-Tiananmen-Square-terror-attack/6881408993004/

China executes 8, including 3 involved in Beijing attack - UPI.com
URUMQI, China, Aug. 25 (UPI) -- China executed eight people convicted on terrorism charges, including three it claimed were responsible for the October attack in Beijing's Tiananmen Square.
Officials in Xinjiang province in western China -- where an indigenous Uighur population is seeing its religious and culture traditions suppressed by the government -- said the three were "masterminds" of the Tiananmen Square incident, in which five people died when a bomb-laden vehicle exploded. The other five were convicted of a number of terrorism-related charges.
China's state-run CCTV television network said the executions "represent the upholding of justice, and demonstrate their (the government's) resolution to crackdown on terrorism."
The government initiated a crackdown on the Uighur population, a Turkic-speaking and Muslim ethnic group, after a number of high-profile incidents. A group, armed with knives, killed 29 and injured 130 in March in a train station in the southwestern city of Kunming. An attack on the train station in Urumqi in May killed five, and an explosion in an Urumqi market in June killed 39. Religious extremists were blamed in all incidents.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.