2014-07~09
http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2014-08/29/content_18508859.htm

Security increased at expo in Xinjiang - China - Chinadaily.com.cn
Security will be stepped up at the fourth China-Eurasia Expo, which will be held in Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, said an official of the Xinjiang Public Security Department on Thursday.
The fourth China-Eurasia Expo will be held from Sept 1 to Sept 6. Forty-four foreign minister-level guests will attend the expo, according to the organizing committee.
China launched a one-year nationwide campaign against terrorism in May, with Xinjiang as the campaign's focus, after a series of violent and deadly attacks by terrorists and religious extremists from the region.
Wang Longde, director of the public security contingent under the department, said that the focus will be on vehicle and certificate checks.
Vehicles transporting explosives or from other cities with no permits are forbidden from entering Urumqi, said Wang. Cars entering Xinjiang and Urumqi will be strictly checked at every check station.
Wang said that visitors must hold tickets and ID cards while entering the Xinjiang International Convention and Exhibition Center, the main venue of the expo.
Visitors are also warned not to bring any liquids, Wang added.
In recent days, an unmanned aerial vehicle police team under the Urumqi special police force has held several drills near the venue.
"The UAV can transmit the real scene to the headquarters," an officer of the team said. "It can monitor the unusual gathering or movements in the area in a timely manner."
More than 60 police dogs will help officers to check the venue, grassland, drainages and even flowerpots.
The fourth China-Eurasia Expo will hold 10 forums and themed activities involving delegations from 60 countries and regions.
In today's trending, beer drinking competition has contestants drinking from basins, bland watermelon leads to police case, raising money for sick child with suanlafen and heat drives monkeys to disturb residents.

 Copyright 1995 - 

 . All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form. Note: Browsers with 1024*768 or higher resolution are suggested for this site.

 License for publishing multimedia online 0108263             Registration Number: 130349       
