2014-07~09
http://www.tampabay.com/news/world/death-toll-put-at-96-in-ethnic-unrest-in-china/2191369

Death toll put at 96 in ethnic unrest in China | Tampa Bay Times
At least 96 people were killed in recent clashes in the northwestern province of Xinjiang, China said Sunday, making it the deadliest incident of ethnic unrest in the country since 2009. After days of secrecy shrouding the violence last week in the city of Shache, the official Xinhua News Agency said that 37 civilians were killed by a gang that ambushed vehicles on the main road of the city, near the border with Tajikistan and Afghanistan. Fifty-nine attackers were shot and killed by police, and 215 were arrested, the agency said. Chinese state media linked the attackers to the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a shadowy group that seeks independence for Xinjiang. Shache, also known as Yarkand, is mostly populated by Uighurs, a Turkic ethnic minority.
Tropical Storm Bertha drifted away from the Turks & Caicos Islands and the southeastern Bahamas on Sunday, prompting officials to discontinue all storm warnings and coastal watches. The U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami said the storm was likely to curve to the north-northeast and move parallel to the U.S. eastern seaboard without hitting the mainland. It was also expected to steer clear of the mid-Atlantic British territory of Bermuda later in the week.
Afghanistan: The presidential vote audit resumed Sunday, but the team of candidate Abdullah Abdullah continued to boycott the review and issued mixed signals about its intentions, while agents of candidate Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai bickered over which ballots seemed suspicious.
California: A pair of wildfires burning without restraint about 8 miles apart in northeast California became the focus of state and federal firefighters Sunday as authorities reported that one of the blazes had destroyed eight homes and prompted the precautionary evacuation of a small long-term care hospital.
Libya: A day of militia fighting over control of the international airport in Tripoli killed 22 people, the interim government said Sunday, part of the worsening chaos in the country.
Nepal: There is no chance of finding any of the more than 150 people who are believed to have been buried by a massive landslide in northern Nepal, an official said Sunday, as rescuers struggled to dig through piles of rock, mud and trees.
Death toll put at 96 in ethnic unrest in China 08/03/14
 
 [Last modified: Sunday, August 3, 2014 10:55pm]
 

Photo reprints | Article reprints
