2014-07~09
http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/china-pakistan-hold-joint-airforce-drill-115090600509_1.html

China, Pakistan hold joint airforce drill | Business Standard News


 Press Trust of India  | 
 Beijing  

September 6, 2015 Last Updated at 18:32 IST


 Chinese and Pakistani air forces today launched joint drill by pressing in several contingents of fighter jets, bombers and early warning aircraft. The joint exercise is part of a series of military exchange programmes between the two air forces, Chinese Air Force spokesperson Shen Jinke said. The two airforces deployed contingent fighter jets, bombers and early warning planes, Shen said. He however, did not say how long the drill would last nor disclosed the area where it is taking place. The first such drill was held in Pakistan in March 2011, the second in China's western Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region in September 2013, and the third was held in Punjab, Pakistan, in May last year. Shen said that China's Air Force was willing to expand the scope of cooperation with various countries. Over the years China has emerged as Pakistan's prime military weapon supplier as they forged close strategic relationship. The two countries jointly produce multi-role fighter J-17 Thunder. Reports here said Pakistan plans to acquire another of China's multi role fighter the J-10. J-10's first overseas buyer will be Pakistan, Fu Qianshao, an aviation equipment expert with China's People's Libration Army's air force told official media here recently. According to the official media reports, China is wooing Iran to buy 150 jets of J-10 in the backdrop of lifting of UN sanctions. Pakistan has dispatched a 75-member military contingent to take part in the September 3rd massive military parade held here to commemorate the 70 anniversary of victory against Japan in WW-II.
Here are top trading ideas from Chandan Taparia of Anand Rathi
However, inflows remain robust in despite a 6.5% crack in key stock indices
Copyrights © 2015 Business Standard Private Ltd. All rights reserved.