2014-07~09
http://www.freep.com/story/news/nation/2014/09/23/scholar-china-sentenced-life-prison/16092309/

Scholar in China sentenced to life in prison
Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device.
Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?
Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device.
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Ilham Tohti, an outspoken scholar who championed the country's Uighur minority, received the most severe penalty in a decade for anyone in China convicted of illegal political speech.(Photo: Andy Wong/Associated Press)
BEIJING – A Beijing economics professor who was China's most prominent critic of government policies toward the nation's Uighur ethnic minority was convicted today on charges of separatism and sentenced to life in prison — the most severe penalty in a decade for anyone in China convicted of illegal political speech.
The two-day trial of Ilham Tohti had been denounced by international human rights groups and foreign governments, including the U.S., which described the case as persecution of a moderate intellectual who had sought to foster dialogue between Uighurs and China's Han ethnic majority.
The ruling by the court in Urumqi, the capital of China's far western Xinjiang province that is the homeland of
, was met with disappointment and shock by many observers. Maya Wang, a Hong Kong-based researcher for Human Rights Watch, said the sentence was "incredibly harsh," and "unprecedented for a prominent activist in China in recent memory."
Lawyer Li Fangping said the court also ordered the confiscation of all of Ilham Tohti's possessions. The life sentence will leave Tohti's wife, Guzulnur, with no means to take care of their two young children, Li said.
The 44-year-old defendant was calm during the session but shouted, "I don't accept this!" when the sentence was read, Li said.
Hu Jia, a prominent dissident in Beijing, predicted that the trial would have a chilling impact on other activists. "But obviously Tohti's situation is rather unique," he said in a phone interview, "since he's the only Uighur person who has a voice in China."
The government-controlled New China News Agency said Tohti had used his now-banned website, Uighur Online, to advocate for Xinjiang's separation from China, as well as to encourage other Uighurs to use violence. Tohti had "bewitched and coerced young ethnic students to work for the website and built a criminal syndicate," the agency said.
Tohti had denied the charges, saying he never associated with any terrorist organizations or foreign groups, and "relied only on pen and paper to diplomatically request" human and legal rights for Uighurs.
Tohti is known as a moderate voice with ties to both the country's Han Chinese establishment and the Muslim Uighur ethnic group, which has long complained of harsh treatment by the government in the far western Xinjiang region. A Communist Party member and professor at Beijing's Minzu University, Tohti highlighted issues affecting the ethnic group. Chinese authorities detained the scholar in January along with seven of his students.
““Ilham Tohti worked to peacefully build bridges between ethnic communities and for that he has been punished through politically motivated charges.” ”
During the trial, prosecutors cited Ilham Tohti's lectures and online writings, including his discussion of the different roots of the Han Chinese and Uighur peoples. Speaking in his own defense Thursday, Iham Tohti denied that he had encouraged separatism while addressing Xinjiang's cultural and legal challenges, Li said.
Chinese writer Wang Lixiong said on Twitter that the government had created a "Chinese Mandela," referring to South African leader Nelson Mandela, who was jailed for 27 years before becoming president.
The verdict comes amid a security crackdown in resource-rich Xinjiang. The province has seen a surge in bloodshed over the last year and a half that authorities say is a result of terrorists attempting to overthrow Chinese rule and establish a separate state called East Turkestan.
Activists and exile groups said that job discrimination, government policies related to Uighur language and customs, and intense security measures are causing deep resentment in Xinjiang that is leading to unrest. Members of China's ethnic Han majority have also been migrating to the province in droves, further exacerbating tensions. Beijing says the government has improved living standards and developed the region's economy.
Jacob Zenn, a researcher on extremism and an expert on Eurasian affairs at the Jamestown Foundation, predicted that the verdict in the Tohti case could worsen the security situation rather than improve it. Now, he said, Uighurs "will be less inclined to explore political or academic arguments to pursue their cause for greater autonomy, and make them more sympathetic to the militant cause."
Human rights activists said the harsh sentence demonstrated the government's intolerance of criticism from even the most conciliatory of voices. Political activist Wang Bingzhang was the last person to receive a life sentence for political speech when he was convicted in 2003 after starting a pro-democracy publication outside China and founding two opposition parties in the country.
"IlhamTohti worked to peacefully build bridges between ethnic communities and for that he has been punished through politically motivated charges," William Nee, a China researcher at human rights group Amnesty International, said in an e-mailed statement. "Tohti is a prisoner of conscience."
Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.