2014-07~09
http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2014-08/11/content_18283487.htm

Xinjiang cinema launches ratings - China - Chinadaily.com.cn
A cinema in Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, has begun refusing children entry to films it deems unsuitable for them.
China has no national film rating system. However, the Urumqi branch of the China Film theater chain now rates movies shown on its six screens as "G" (all ages admitted) or "PG-13" (parents of children under 13 are strongly cautioned).
The policy has been applied since Aug 3, after Chinese thriller The House That Never Dies scared young viewers at the cinema, causing some to cry and disturbing other audience members.
"Our cinema is located in a residential area, which means more children are brought here by their parents, especially during summertime when kids are on a two-month vacation," said Yao Lin, executive manager of the cinema.
He said it had not been easy to rate films because "there were neither legal grounds nor operational approaches".
According to ticket sellers at the cinema, many customers were initially confused or even angry when they were blocked from buying tickets to The House That Never Dies for their children.
"But as we put up more boards advertising the new rule and included the rating of each film on the LED screen, most parents showed their understanding and support," said one member of the staff.
Zhang Hao, a customer waiting in the foyer, was in favor of the ratings.
"My 11-year-old boy has begun to imitate inappropriate actions from cartoons he sees on TV, let alone motion pictures on the big screen," he said.
In countries with a mature motion picture rating system, such as the United States and Japan, government censors or industry committees classify films with regard to suitability for audiences.
Hong Kong also has a classification system carried out by a film censorship authority. The Chinese mainland still lacks such as system.
More imported movies are likely to be introduced to Chinese audiences following the signing of a memorandum of understanding regarding the film industries here and in the US.
Yao said it was therefore more important than ever to set up a rating system to guide parents.
In today's trending, beer drinking competition has contestants drinking from basins, bland watermelon leads to police case, raising money for sick child with suanlafen and heat drives monkeys to disturb residents.

 Copyright 1995 - 

 . All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form. Note: Browsers with 1024*768 or higher resolution are suggested for this site.

 License for publishing multimedia online 0108263             Registration Number: 130349       
