2014-07~09
http://www.singaporestar.com/index.php/sid/226061173

China Details Accusations against Uighur Scholar Convicted of Separatism - Singapore Star
China is outlining what it says is evidence that led to the separatism conviction against and life imprisonment of a prominent Uighur scholar.
There has been widespread international condemnation of this week's conviction of Ilham Tohti, an economics professor who pushed for greater rights for the minority Uighurs.
The United States, European Union, and several major international human rights groups have urged China to release Tohti, who they say was a strident but peaceful critic of Beijing.
An article in the official Xinhua news agency attempted to dispel that notion Thursday, portraying the professor as an extremist who encouraged his students to commit acts of violence.
Xinhua said prosecutors presented video footage showing Tohti urging his students to fight the Chinese government, which he allegedly called a "devil to the Uighur people."
The article also quoted unnamed witnesses who said Tohti "had been behind over 100 articles advocating separatism" on his Uighur Online website, which the government shut down.
Tohti's lawyer, Li Fangping, disputed many of the pieces of alleged evidence presented by Xinhua, saying the comments were inaccurate or misinterpreted.
Li told the French news agency that he has lodged a complaint on the grounds that it is illegal to publish evidence before Tohti has had a chance to appeal.
Li also said Chinese authorities also did not allow him to access the evidence before the trial because officials said it was "too sensitive."
A Chinese official in charge of ethnic affairs, Luo Liming, insisted Thursday that Tohti's sentencing "was carried out by the judiciary based on our state laws and regulations."
The 45-year-old Tohti has for decades given lectures, written articles, and commented to foreign media about China's treatment of the mostly Muslim Uighurs in the restive region of Xinjiang.
China has severely restricted Muslim religious life and traditional culture in Xinjiang. Many Uighurs also complain of what they say is preferential treatment towards the country's Han majority, which have flooded to the region.
Xinjiang has seen a rising number of violent attacks in recent years that have killed hundreds of people. Most of the attacks were initially directed at state targets, but now also frequently target civilians.
Beijing blames foreign-backed Muslim fighters who it says are trying to form an independent state in Xinjiang. Many exiled Uighur groups say the violence is prompted by China's treatment of Uighurs.
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) The government on Monday approved 15 FDI proposals worth Rs.7,261.60 crore, based on the recommendations of Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB).
The approved proposals were from Sun Life Financial (India) Insurance Investments, Nippon Life Insurance Compnay, Tata AIA Life Insurance Company and others.
Of the approved proposals, the highest proposal emerged from Nippon Life Insurance Company at Rs.2,265.5 crore, followed by Tata AIA Life Insurance Company at Rs.2,055 crore and Sun Life Financial (India) Insurance Investments' Rs.1,664 crore.
Another proposal amounting to Rs.6,885 crore has been recommended to be approved by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) while 10 proposals coming from Apollo Hospitals Enterprises, Lupin and others have been rejected.
In the list of eight deferred proposals, Whirlpool Asia, Bupa Singapore and RMS Arc Insurance Borkers featured while Equitas Holdings withdrew its application.

Singapore / Tokyo, Mar.21 (ANI): Subway is the most important transport system in Singapore with ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) The government on Monday approved 15 FDI proposals worth Rs.7,261.60 ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Following his maiden win in the Indian Open last weekend, ...
<br>Food Standards Australia and New Zealand has issued an alert that selected batches of Spring ...
SINGAPORE: Amid growing demand for cyber-security in the region, services provider e-Cop on Monday (Mar ...
Get the latest Singapore Star headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Singapore Star - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved