2014-07~09
http://america.aljazeera.com/articles/2014/9/29/tktk.html

China sentences two to death in death of pro-Beijing imam | Al Jazeera America
The browser or device you are using is out of date. It has known security flaws and a limited feature set. You will not see all the features of some websites. Please update your browser. A list of the most popular browsers can be found below.
A Chinese court has sentenced two people to death and another to life imprisonment for the murder of a state-backed imam in China's restive western region of Xinjiang, according to the official Xinhua news agency.
In late July, three people armed with knives and axes attacked Jume Tahir, a well-known pro-government ethnic Uighur who led prayers at China's biggest mosque, in Xinjiang, according to Chinese authorities.
Two of the attackers were later shot dead by police while the third, Nurmemet Abidili, was arrested.
Abidili and Gheni Hasan were sentenced to death on charges of forming and leading terrorist groups and murder, according to the verdict by the Kashgar Intermediate People's Court.
Last week, China sentenced Ilham Tohti, an ethnic Uighur who is an advocate for the rights of the Muslim Uighur people, to life in prison on separatist charges.
Xinhua said on Sunday that Hasan was influenced by religious extremism and led a gang, which trained members to kill patriotic religious figures.
Atawulla Tursun was sentenced to life in prison for taking part in terrorist groups and murder. State media previously said an 18-year-old named Aini Aishan, who was not mentioned in the verdict, was the mastermind behind the murder.
Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people, has been beset by violence, which the government blames on separatists who want to establish an independent state.
Tahir was a controversial figure among Uighurs. In 2009, he backed the government after it quashed deadly riots in Xinjiang's capital, Urumqi, in which nearly 200 people were killed. His high-profile support for the government — state media  referred to him as a "patriotic religious personage" — and his criticism of violence in Xinjiang may have made him a target.
The US 'war on terror' should stand as a cautionary tale for China, according to experts at a Uighur conference
State-appointed imam found dead in pool of his own blood outside prayer hall
Ilham Tohti, an advocate for rights of Uighur minorities, sentenced for 'inciting separatism' in his native Xinjiang
Sorry, your comment was not saved due to a technical problem. Please try again later or using a different browser.
Yoga used to help kids cope with violence in Chicago