2014-07~09
http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/Front-Pages-from-Around-the-Globe-5664936.php

Front Pages from Around the Globe - SFGate
With U.S. President Obama pushing for an immediate and unconditional cease-fire in the Gaza conflict, Israeli forces continued the hunt for tunnels Sunday, destroying two and neutralizing another seven. The humanitarian cease-fire that went into effect on Saturday morning collapsed 26 hours later when Israel announced the resumption of strikes in retaliation for repeated rocket firing into Israel.
Editor's note: A second cease-fire ended Friday, lasting only 90 minutes.
Over the past two weeks, an increasing number of Facebook pages are reporting on people who express joy at the deaths of Israeli soldiers or speak out harshly against the war effort, and calling for them to be dismissed from their jobs. Hadassah College in Jerusalem withdrew a scholarship to an Arab woman student over such a Facebook post. Other educational institutions have issued warnings to their staff and students that they must avoid "extremist and inappropriate statements" on social media.
The U.S. State Department accused the Venezuela government of threatening Aruba and Holland if they didn't release former intelligence chief Hugo Carvajal, who is wanted by the United States on drug trafficking charges. Aruban authorities had acted on a request from U.S. prosecutors when they arrested Carvajal, who had been expected to become Venezuela's consul there. President Nicolas Maduro protested the detention, citing diplomatic immunity, but an Aruba judge determined Carvajal had yet to be accredited and ordered that he be held pending extradition to the U.S.
Editor's note: Carvajal was the highest-ranking Venezuelan official ever arrested on a U.S. warrant. In 2008, he was one of three senior Venezuelan military officers blacklisted by the U.S. Treasury for allegedly providing weapons and safe haven to rebels in neighboring Colombia. Aruba's top prosecutor said Carvajal was freed because the Dutch foreign minister decided he had immunity from arrests.
On International Tiger Day, China caught one of its biggest "tigers" - a term used to refer to high-ranking corrupt officials. Zhou Yongkang, former security chief, is being investigated for suspicion of "serious disciplinary violations," the Communist Party announced Tuesday.
Editor's note: There have been reports of Zhou's family and his associates amassing great wealth. If he goes to trial, Zhou, 71, would be the highest-level official to be prosecuted since the 1981 treason trial of Mao Zedong's wife and other members of the "Gang of Four."
Dozens of civilians were killed or injured in a terrorist attack in the Xinjiang Uighur autonomous region Monday. Terrorists attacked local government offices and a police station.
Editor's note: Uighur exile groups said police shot dozens of protesters, and repressive Chinese cultural and religious policies are fueling the violence, not terrorism.
The front-page photo shows police superintendent Mike Bell with two Special Forces soldiers. He is traveling to Britain to study techniques used to de-radicalize people who have gone to fight in foreign conflicts. Bell says West Australia has several homegrown radicals under surveillance and that extremist activity is inevitable as conflicts rage in such countries as Iraq and Syria. "This is the biggest threat to Australian domestic security in many years," Bell said.
Editor's note: Australian police recently issued arrest warrants for two Australians fighting with the Islamic State group in Iraq and Syria after one posted photographs of the other posing with severed heads of Syrian soldiers.
Perth-based mining companies with operations in West Africa are discussing the possibility of the disease reaching Australia and quarantining visitors from the region.
Editor's note: The virus has killed more than 700 people, the largest outbreak in history.
The Central Disaster Emergency Operation Center said 28 people were killed and 286 injured after explosions ripped through four streets around midnight Thursday in Kaohsiung, catapulting cars into the air and blasting cement rubble at passers-by, many of whom were out late at a nearby night market. The explosions were believed caused by leaking propene, a petrochemical material not intended for public use, said Chang Jia-juch, the center's director. President Ma Ying-jeou also expressed his condolences to the victims' families and said Friday that pipes used by petrochemical plants under all urban areas in Taiwan would be checked, while environmental groups urged the government to make public the map of all underground pipelines built by petrochemical companies.
Editor's note: Kaohsiung is one of Taiwan's centers of petrochemical production. Propene is mainly used for making the plastic polypropylene used in a wide variety of packaging, caps and films.