2014-07~09
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2014/07/31/deadly-violence-in-xinjiang-not-a-terror-attack-uighur-group-says/

Deadly Violence in Xinjiang Not a Terror Attack, Uighur Group Says - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
An overseas group advocating on behalf of China’s mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority cast doubt Wednesday on the Chinese government’s assertion that a recent outburst of deadly violence in the far-western Xinjiang region was the result of a terrorist attack. As the WSJ’s Josh Chin reports:
Dozens were killed Monday morning when knife- and ax-wielding assailants attacked government buildings, police stations and passing cars in and around the township of Elixhu, on the outskirts of the city of Yarkand, in western Xinjiang, according to state media reports.
The state-run Xinhua News Agency described the incident as “an organized, premeditated and carefully planned terrorist attack,” and said numerous Han Chinese and Uighur civilians were killed. “Police, reacting quickly and in accordance with the law, shot and killed dozens of the thugs,” it added, without identifying who the attackers were.
The Uyghur American Association, an exile group, disputed that characterization in a statement Wednesday. Citing unidentified local people, it said more than 20 Uighurs were killed and more than 70 were arrested following protests Monday over heavy-handed police treatment during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
“That state media could label the killing of dozens of people as in line with the law reflects the poor regard the state has for its own laws and judicial process,” the association’s president, Alim Seytoff, said in the statement.
The association said several Uighurs had fled to Elixhu from a nearby township earlier this month following protests over the alleged police killing of a Uighur family, and it called for an investigation into Monday’s deaths.
Xinjiang, which abuts Central Asia and contains oil and natural-gas reserves, has long been riven by ethnic tensions between Mandarin-speaking Han Chinese migrants and the Turkic-speaking Uighurs. Uighurs often complain of religious and economic discrimination at the hands of the Han Chinese.
While China says it has raised Uighurs’ living standards and educational levels, their frustration with Chinese rule has fed a decadeslong separatist movement.
Uighur separatists have for years been known to launch periodic violent assaults on government and police targets inside Xinjiang, but recently they have also shown a willingness to attack civilians both in and outside the region.
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

The NSA has that place locked down almost as much as the US. Plans are in place to make sure that never happens.
Yea ok course I didn't mean to imply I thought it was likely.Just imagining how deadly it would be if they had access to what we have now, then.
Pakistan doesn't strike me as an Island of stability in a troubled region, they would be my number one pick.
Interesting question but not one even remotely in play. The US Civil War started over trade and tariff issues and the attempt by the South to resolve them by splitting away. No such issues exist today as the US is fully integrated vis a vis the states and regions. The only country I'm aware of that is historically volatile and is nuclear armed is China. And I wouldn't expect it to be likely there either.
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
