2014-07~09
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/sep/26/chinese-media-reports-50-killed-xinjiang-revision-death-toll-uighur

Chinese media reports 50 killed in Xinjiang in revision of death toll | World news | The Guardian


Friday 26 September 2014 10.31 EDT


Last modified on Friday 26 September 2014 19.05 EDT


Chinese state media said late on Thursday that 50 people were killed last weekend after what officials called a severe terrorist attack in the far western region of Xinjiang.
Regional authorities had said earlier that Sunday’s explosions in Luntai county – known as Bugur in Uighur – killed at least two people and injured many others.
State media did not explain the discrepancy. The revised figures however came shortly after the US broadcaster Radio Free Asia (RFA) reported that dozens of people were killed in the attacks. “I assume there are about 100 people with injuries because all the hospital beds are occupied right now,” a nurse in Luntai told the broadcaster.
RFA said that authorities in affected areas had imposed a curfew after the attacks, and quoted a local teacher as saying: “The attackers, particularly in Bugur county centre, were Uighurs disgruntled by mass forced evictions to make way for the influx of Han Chinese.”
The state-run news portal Tianshan Net said bombs exploded at two police stations, a food market and a shop. It said the attack killed two police officers, two police assistants and six bystanders, and that 54 others were injured. Police took swift action, it said, and 40 assailants were either shot dead or died in explosions.
Police captured two attackers, Tianshan Net said, and an investigation determined that Maimaiti Tuerxun, a man who was fatally shot, was responsible for the attack.
The official Xinhua news agency said Tuerxun “had been operating as an extremist since 2003”. It said he refused to eat meals at home with his parents and attend his father’s funeral because both had worked as civil servants.
“He even declined to join his younger brother’s wedding ceremony because his brother’s marriage certificate was issued by the government,” Xinhua added.
Ethnic tensions in Xinjiang, home of the Muslim Uighur minority group, have killed more than 300 people in the past year and a half. Many Muslim Uighurs bristle at Beijing’s heavy-handed restrictions on their religious life and resent the influx of the Chinese Han majority into their homeland. Chinese authorities defend the country’s ethnic policies as just, and blame the unrest on foreign-influenced terrorists seeking a separate state.
Heavy police controls and surveillance networks have made independent reporting in the region nearly impossible, and the radical change in estimates underscores the unreliability of official accounts.
On Tuesday, a court gave a life sentence to Ilham Tohti, a Uighur scholar who has criticised China’s ethnic policies and sought to reduce tensions between Uighurs and the Han majority. Authorities have also launched a one-year crackdown on terrorism in Xinjiang, and Chinese state media applauded Tohti’s guilty verdict as a victory in that campaign.
Xinhua published a long screed against Tohti on Thursday, saying that he “fomented ethnic hatred” in his lectures and formed a “separatist criminal clique” to run his website, Uighur Online, which was blocked by authorities in 2008. “He took a state salary while forgetting the state’s benevolence, and organised, planned and executed criminal activities to split the country,” Xinhua said. The newswire also accused him of “scheming to internationalise the Xinjiang issue” by posting articles online and openly discussing Xinjiang issues with foreign reporters.
The US, EU, and a host of human rights organisations have called for Tohti’s release. Scholars and human rights advocates say the government’s hardline regional policies could further radicalise the Uighur people and result in more violence.
“Beijing faces no organised Uighur insurgency; there isn’t even an organised political opposition,” Nicholas Bequelin, a senior researcher at Human Rights Watch, wrote in a New York Times commentary. “By making everyone a suspect, Beijing’s tactics fuel polarisation between Uighurs and Han Chinese.”