2014-07~09
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2014/09/23/China-sentences-Uighur-scholar-Tohti-to-life-imprisonment/3561411473672/

Ilham Tohti sentenced to life imprisonment in China - UPI.com
URUMQI, China, Sept. 23 (UPI) -- A court in Urumqi, China, sentenced Uighur activist and scholar Ilham Tohti to life imprisonment Tuesday for advocating separatism.
The surprisingly harsh sentence following the conviction of the moderate economics professor was quickly condemned by critics as a mockery of China's legal system and a brutal repression of dissent.
During the two-day trial, Tohti characterized himself as an opponent of separatism and an advocate of better relations between the Muslim Uighurs of western China and China's Han majority.
The ruling depicted Tohti as promoting Uighur independence "disguised as high-level autonomy" for the western Xinjiang province. He was also convicted of supporting terrorism, expanding the issue by speaking with foreign reporters, and attacking an assortment of government policies, his lawyer, Li Fangpaing, said.
Uighurs in Xinjiang claim they are targets of discrimination and repression by the Chinese Communist Party. Several have been convicted for terrorist-style attacks in the province and in Beijing. Tohti is considered a moderate in the issue; although critical of the government's policies regarding the Uighurs, he said his website was deliberately managed to prevent the dissemination of separatist ideas.
"This is so thorough and transparent a miscarriage of justice as to take one's breath away. By no stretch of the imagination, even the authoritarian imagination, could this be considered a fair trial. The severity of the sentence stands in inverse proportion to the substance of the charges," commented Elliot Sperling, an Indian University expert on Tibet and a friend of Tohti's.
Sperling added Tohti was a scapegoat, convicted to hide the failures of Chinese president Xi Jinping in Xinjiang.
"This has to be seen as a singular moment for human rights in Xi Jinping's tenure. This is going to be part of his legacy," said Sophie Richardson, China director of the advocacy group Human Rights Watch.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.