2014-07~09
http://www.sfgate.com/news/article/News-of-the-world-across-the-globe-Sept-26-5781276.php

News of the world across the globe, Sept. 26 - SFGate
1 Terror arrests: British counter-terrorism police have arrested nine men on suspicion of being members of banned organizations as well as supporting and encouraging terrorism. The men, ranging in age from 22 to 51, are in custody at London police stations. Police also raided homes, businesses and community centers as part of the probe.
2 Palestinian unity: Leaders of rival Palestinian factions said Thursday that they had agreed to resolve their differences and allow the Palestinian Authority to return to the Gaza Strip so reconstruction could begin there next month. Palestinian and Egyptian state news media outlets reported that the leaders of Hamas, the Islamist movement that dominates Gaza, and Fatah, the secular faction of the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, had made progress on the sticking points of their 5-month-old reconciliation pact, including the payment of duplicative government workers, security forces in Gaza and control of its crossing points.
3 Ukraine conflict: Proclaiming that “the main, most dangerous part of the war is already in the past,” President Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine said Thursday that his country should aggressively pursue closer ties with the European Union and that he would lead efforts to fight corruption and improve the economy. Poroshenko’s plan includes reforming all major government agencies that would make the country ready for membership in the EU by 2020.
4Restive province: Violent clashes last weekend in Xinjiang, the western Chinese region, killed and injured a higher number of people than state media had reported. Radio Free Asia, which is funded by the U.S. government, said Thursday that more than a dozen people were killed and around 100 wounded. Ethnic Uighur activists and international human rights groups say that intrusive Chinese restrictions on religion, language and culture, as well as state-sponsored ethnic discrimination, have radicalized the Uighur population.
5Tourist safety: Thailand will install more surveillance cameras and better lighting in major tourist areas after two British tourists were killed last week on a resort island, a senior government official said Thursday. More police and soldiers were being sent to help investigate the slayings of Hannah Witheridge, 23, and David Miller, 24, who were found battered to death on a Koh Tao beach last week.
6Space launch: A U.S.-Russian space crew blasted off successfully on Friday for the International Space Station. The Russian Soyuz-TMA14M spacecraft lifted off from the Russian launch facility in Kazakhstan. It’s carrying NASA astronaut Barry Wilmore along with Russians Alexander Samokutyaev and Elena Serova for a six-month stint at the station.
7 Chile bombings: The explosion of a homemade bomb killed a 29-year-old man in Santiago on Thursday, officials said, adding to a string of blasts in Chile’s capital. Officials say anarchist cells have planted some 200 bombs around Santiago over the past decade, and 30 so far this year.