2014-07~09
http://www.japanherald.com/index.php/sid/225991263

As US Strikes Syria, China Sees Parallels at Home - Japan Herald
BEIJING- As U.S. airstrikes began hitting targets of the Islamic State terrorist group in Syria, China says it supports international efforts to crack down on terrorism. Increasingly though, Beijing is seeing the fight against the Islamic State militants (IS) as an extension of its own efforts at home to battle what it says are religious extremists in its restive region of Xinjiang.
China is unlikely to give the United States and those who have joined an international coalition to fight IS military support any time soon. What Beijing does believe, though, is the fight against the terrorist group dovetails with its own efforts to deal with growing unrest at home.
"China has repeatedly made its stern opposition to terrorism clear, in all of its shapes and forms," reiterated Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying, adding that "the international community should work together to fight terrorism, including giving support to relevant countries as they make efforts to maintain domestic security and stability."
Much like efforts to fight terrorism elsewhere, China's domestic battle against what it says are violent religious extremists is a source of controversy. Attacks over the past year in China - mostly in Xinjiang - have increasingly targeted innocent civilians. However, the root causes of the incidents are hotly contested and the government severely limits any access to information about what happened.
Overseas Uighur groups say the government's repressive religious and cultural policies in Xinjiang are fueling tensions. Inside China, those who question government policies in Xinjiang are silenced, sometimes in court.
On Tuesday, the Chinese government sentenced Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti to life in prison on separatism charges. The scholar had long been seen as someone who tried to bridge China's ethnic divide between its Han majority and Xinjiang's Uighur Muslim minority group. The United States, European Union, the United Nations as well as human rights groups have called for his release.
The Tohti court ruling, and heavy-handed policies against Uighurs in Xinjiang are expected to make it even more difficult for China to win over international support for its fight at home.
There is also a debate in China about how much support Beijing should provide to the international effort against the Islamic State militants, given China's global stature and oil interests in Syria and Iraq. Military analyst Zhao Chu argued in a blog that joining the coalition could not only give China valuable military experience, but allow it to look after its own interests while showing concern for international justice.
Most state-media commentaries, however, have cautioned Beijing against joining the international coalition, characterizing the effort as just another bid to follow the United States' lead in global affairs. However, as Peking University political scientist Wang Lian points out, the fight against terrorism is no longer an effort that involves a sole struggle within one individual country.
Wang says that "from the moment when the September 11th attacks were launched over 13 years ago, the world has come to understand that international cooperation is needed to fight terrorism." He says such cooperation to fight extremism and terrorism requires a "broader range of authorization and adherence to international laws and justice."
Much like other countries across the globe, China is also trying to determine how many Chinese nationals may have joined the Islamic State forces overseas. The Iraqi Army says it captured an Islamic State fighter who is a Chinese national. And Wu Sike, who until recently was Beijing's special envoy to the Middle East, says there could be as many as 100 Chinese nationals participating there.
On Monday, the Communist Party-owned Global Times made a direct link between the Islamic State and what it called extremists in Xinjiang. The report said radicals from Xinjiang are being trained in Iraq, Syria and other parts of Asia. Just days before it highlighted the alleged link, a report in the newspaper also cautioned the international community and media not to jump to any conclusions about the Islamic State.
In a report that highlighted China's need to take a prudent approach to airstrikes on IS, the newspaper argued that little is still know about what it called "the real face of the IS [Islamic State]." The report went on to say that while "Western media outlets have given full coverage to the groups cruelty and extremism," various sources have noted that the group "provides water and electricity in its occupation areas" as well as managing "bakeries, banks, schools, courts and mosques."
The Global Times conclusion was that it is still unclear whether the Islamic State is a terrorist group or a product of Middle East politics.
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Forty percent of India's population may not have drinking water by 2030, if the water crisis in country is not met seriously, a study has warned.
With the country facing a grave water crisis and lack of water conservation, the availability of potable water and ground water has decreased over the years which would result in severe situation in the country after a decade, said an activist for water conservation on the eve of World Water Day (March 22) observed to create awareness about water related issues and for action to deal with the global water crisis.
"By 2030, 40 percent of the total population in the country will not have drinking water if situation remains same," Jal Jan Jodo Abhiyan's national convenor Sanjay Singh told IANS, quoting a research published recently by the 2030 Water Resource Group (WRG).
"The ground water is depleting, the small tributaries have dried up to 90 percent and the flow of rivers has reduced by 60-65 percent. This will lead to a severe situation in the coming years reducing water availability to a great extent," he added.
He also said that the per capita demand has increased whereas the availability is very less. In fact, a report on ground water published by PRS Legislative Research --a non-governmental organisation -- says: "Due to increasing population, the national per capita annual availability of water has reduced by 15 percent from 2001 to 2011."
It also said that India uses almost twice the amount of water to grow crops as compared to China and the US.
"The gap between the availability and demand is increasing at a greater pace. Cities like Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai and other metropolitan cities consume water in huge quantities due to changed lifestyle of people. This must be looked into," Singh told IANS.
He also said that the efforts done by the government were not enough to meet the crisis.
South Asia Network on Dam, Rivers and People coordinator Himanshu Thakkar says water crisis in the country is multidimensional and is aggravating fast because of various factors including mismanagement of the resource.
He anticipates big problems based on the water crisis looming large in the country, if the situation continues.
"Ground water is the lifeline of the country which is depleting very fast. Water is part of ecological system as every living thing on earth needs water so if not dealt with properly the perennial water crisis may lead to more serious problems like food crisis, livelihood crisis, social conflicts," Thakkar told IANS.
He said that social conflicts based on water crisis have already started in the country. Tension between Haryana and Punjab over Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal project and conflicts in Marathwada region of Maharashtra over water are the latest examples.
"In terms of water crisis in India things have now come to such a pass that a district collector in Latur district in Maharashtra had to implement section 144 to avoid clashes between people due to water crisis," Thakkar told IANS.
Blaming the government in general being the major contributor towards the crisis, Thakkar said the government machinery was solely responsible for failing in water management.
"Government is responsible for water crisis in terms of mismanagement. The government does not involve people in the management of water. This year is a drought year so the problem has increased manifold but the efforts of the government does not seem sufficient to deal with the crisis," he said.
About the water crisis in Delhi, he said that mismanagement on part of governments can be seen easily as in February, Jat protesters took over Munak canal in Haryana stopping water supply to the national capital and it took over a fortnight to deal with the consequences.
Ruwa Shah can be contacted at ruwa.s@ians.in and Ashish Mishra can be contacted at ashish.m@ians.in)

Singapore / Tokyo, Mar.21 (ANI): Subway is the most important transport system in Singapore with ...
Amposta - Thirteen people were killed and 44 injured on Sunday when a bus carrying ...
Monday, 21 March -- The Director-General, Irina Bokova, inaugurated the new premises of the Division ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Raghuram Rajan said on ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Forty percent of India's population may not have drinking water ...
Get the latest Japan Herald headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Japan Herald - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved