2014-07~09
http://www.ifex.org/china/2014/08/01/ilham_tohti_indictment/

China indicts Uyghur scholar on charges of separatism - IFEX
PEN American Center condemns the 30 July 2014 indictment of Ilham Tohti on charges of separatism. A Uyghur scholar and the 2014 PEN/Barbara Goldsmith Freedom to Write Award recipient, Tohti has worked to promote peaceful dialogue between Uyghurs and the majority Han population in China. Tensions between the two ethnic groups have risen to new heights as restrictions on cultural freedoms in Xinjiang have expanded and pockets of individuals have responded violently. Tohti, however, has never advocated violence or the separation of Xinjiang from China. Instead, he has worked within the country's laws to promote equal rights for all of China's citizens, and to encourage exchange and understanding between different ethnic groups. The charges against Ilham Tohti reflect the Chinese government's refusal to distinguish between peaceful advocacy and violent unrest. By targeting Tohti based on his ideas, writings, and teachings, Beijing sends the message that advocacy for Uyghur rights is prohibited in any form. The government claims an aim to discourage violence, but the denial of peaceful means of expression risks having the exact opposite effect. PEN is gravely concerned about Ilham Tohti's prospects for a fair trial on these baseless charges. Tohti has long expected retaliation from the Chinese government. In a statement released in July 2013, he foretold his own arrest: "I have realized that I don't have too many good days ahead of me and I have a feeling that the Chinese government may not have the best intentions in dealing with my situation... I am almost confident that the Chinese government is trying to get rid of me this time." Ilham Tohti's right to free expression is protected under international human rights law as well as Article 35 of the Chinese Constitution. PEN reiterates our call to Chinese authorities to immediately drop all charges against him and release him.
Draft counterterrorism law would require telecoms and ISPs to provide backdoor access and encryption keys to government
Strike by journalists calling for end to censorship met with state-led ideological campaign
The 100-page report shows that Tibetan refugee communities in Nepal are now facing a de facto ban on political protests, sharp restrictions on public activities promoting Tibetan culture and religion, and routine abuses by Nepali security forces.
"Crackdown on bloggers and social media users follows presidential transition"
IFJ's report documents the continued deterioration of press freedoms in Mainland China, as well as Hong Kong and Macau. It takes its title in direct response to Chinese authorities adopting more repressive measures in 2013 reminiscent of the Mao era four decades ago, including direct censorship, Internet surveillance, abuse of legal process, harassment and intimidation, and televised confessions of journalists and bloggers without trial.
A growing number of Chinese assert basic rights, share uncensored information online, and challenge perceived injustice despite the regime’s hostility toward organised dissent
President Hu Jintao, the leading jailer of press freedom defenders in the world
More than half of imprisoned journalists from minority regions, Tibet and Xinjiang
China "has more journalists, bloggers and cyber-dissidents in prison than any other country"
Authorities take "unprecedented step of rounding up over 30 of the most outspoken critics and 'disappearing' them for weeks"
When legislation and the judicial system affect your right to express yourself.
In recent years, the space afforded to civil society to operate freely has been shrinking dramatically across the world, presenting a serious threat to democracy and human rights. Eastern Europe and Central Asia (EECA) have been especially badly affected by this shrinking political space.

World Association of Community Radio Broadcasters - AMARC
15 December 2015 


The report surveys the rocky landscape for media and public discourse since the ruling military junta lifted the curtain on the southeast Asian nation in 2012 after five decades of isolation from the modern world.
With the environment now recognized as a major challenge for humankind, Reporters Without Borders believes that particular attention should be paid to the journalists who take greats risk to investigate sensitive, environment-related subjects. The report highlights a steady deterioration in the situation for environmental reporters, who are increasingly exposed to many kinds of pressure, threats and violence.
The EU has made press freedom imperative in negotiating with candidate countries, but has been accused of failing to take strong action when member states renege on their press freedom commitments.
The Pakistani government has significantly expanded its communication interception activities. This Privacy International report covers the intelligence services plan to capture all IP-traffic in Pakistan and other initiatives, pointing to gaps in the laws governing surveillance.
This report scrutinizes legislation covering freedom of expression and religious freedom in the Balkans, and whether satire and blasphemy are in any way regulated in these countries.

Center for Independent Journalism - Romania
 8 July 2015 


The need to regulate the transfer of surveillance technologies that pose a risk to human rights has been largely recognised by EU institutions and some EU member states. It is no longer a question of if the EU should do more in this area, but how.
In this report, ARTICLE 19 seeks to outline the implications of anonymity and encryption for the right to freedom of expression in the digital age.
Defamation and insult remain criminal offences in Portugal punishable by up to two years behind bars despite the fact that a number of international human rights bodies have found criminal defamation to be a disproportionate restriction on freedom of expression.
Despite its Constitutional commitment to free speech, India’s legal system makes it surprisingly easy to silence others. Routine corruption, inefficiency, and the selective enforcement of vague and overbroad laws allow individuals, or small groups, to censor opinions they find distasteful. - See more at: http://www.pen-international.org/the-india-report-executive-summary-and-key-findings/#sthash.TIIM2xbu.dpuf
Press freedom in the Philippines continued to be under attack from 2014 to 2015. The killing of journalists is continuing, with four journalists killed from May 2014 to May 2015. The trial of the accused masterminds of the Ampatuan (Maguindanao) Massacre and their supposed henchmen is continuing, but with a primary accused was released, while a witness in the same case was killed.
The year 2014 saw Malaysians standing up to exercise the rights guaranteed under the Federal Constitution, including freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. This continues a growing trend of facing up to state oppression. Unfortunately, this has been met with increasing repression. Malaysia has seen a concerted crackdown on the freedom of expression in the year 2014, which has escalated even further in 2015.
As Globe International Center (GIC) reported, from 2012-2014, violations against journalists and the media increased compared to previous years and journalists faced external threats and intervention in their professional work, different types of pressures, threats, censorship in distribution, demands to reveal their information sources, to question and give testimony in mass by law enforcement bodies, especially by the General Intelligence Agency, use of criminal defamation law by politicians and public bodies or public officials censoring the media.
Cambodian Internet users overwhelmingly see the country’s Internet as increasingly becoming more accommodating of free expression but remain concerned about the effects of recently proposed government actions related to Internet surveillance and controls, according to the results of a study by CCIM, which surveyed almost 1,000 Cambodian Internet users from 22 provinces.
Despite protecting human rights defenders (“HRDs”) falling under the protection of legally binding international instruments, such as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (“ICCPR”), many HRDs in the Kingdom of Cambodia (“Cambodia”) remain at high risk of a plethora of threats including arbitrary arrest and detention, physical violence and murder, and threats and intimidation and harassment.
While media freedom in Spain remains robust and certainly comparable to its European neighbours, at such a critical moment for the Spanish public there is a need to ensure maximum access to the free flow of information.
Legal regulation in the field of freedom of expression became more stringent as a result of abrupt introduction of amendments to the already undemocratic law ‘On Mass Media’ in December 2014.
Join Index on Censorship, writers, journalists and artists from around the world to condemn the shocking seizure of Turkish independent media group, Zaman. 


Indonesian president's silence on LGBT persecution, Qatari poet release and more in today's IFEX Daily Digest https://t.co/pc9d5CKXiI – 8:03 PM, 21 March 2016
555 Richmond Street West, Suite 1101, P.O. Box 407
 Toronto, ON, Canada, M5V 3B1
 Tel: +1 416 515 9622
 Fax: +1 416 515 7879
Contact us
IFEX publishes original and member-produced free expression news and reports. Some member content has been edited by IFEX. We invite you to contact [email protected] to request permission to reproduce or republish in whole or in part content from this site.