2014-07~09
http://www.iraqsun.com/index.php/sid/224299241/scat/a1327f7c4068c2fd/ht/Uighur-Imam-an-Ally-of-China-Murdered-Outside-Mosque

Uighur Imam, an Ally of China, Murdered Outside Mosque - Iraq Sun
An imam who was supportive of Beijing's controversial treatment of minority Uighur Muslims was stabbed to death outside the Xingjiang region's largest mosque.
Local officials and residents said 74-year-old Jume Tahir was attacked early Wednesday at the 600-year-old Id Kah mosque in Kashgar, the regional capital.
Tahir was a member of China's largely ceremonial parliament, the National People's Congress. He frequently criticized what he called "sabotage and secessionist" activities in Xinjiang, where hundreds have been killed in unrest in the past year.
Many Uighurs see the violence as a desperate response to the government's heavy-handed restrictions on Muslim religious life and its perceived preferential treatment toward the Han majority that have flocked to the region.
Beijing denies mistreating Uighurs - a stance that Tahir apparently agreed with. In 2009, he told China's official Xinhua news agency that Muslims' "lawful religious beliefs are fully protected."
The government had not commented on the murder of Tahir, which was first reported by Radio Free Asia. It occurred two days after fighting between a knife-wielding mob and Chinese police killed scores of people outside Kashgar.
The government and exiled Uighur groups have differing accounts of the clashes, as is usually the case with such violence.
The American Uyghur Association said the violence began when police attacked a group of protesters who were angry over religious restrictions during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, which ended this week.
Xinhua said an initial investigation has determined that the mob was a "premeditated terrorist attack."
New York, Mar. 21 (ANI): At least 100 ISIS militants have been killed in the two-day airstrikes in Iraq's Mosul city, according to the Iraqi Army.
The Iraqi Army had yesterday tweeted that international airstrikes targeted key ISIS militants at various locations in the city, including Mosul University.
According to them, there were no students inside the university and the army also claimed that the varsity's building is being used for training purposes.
Meanwhile, CNN reports that it has confirmed the strikes, the first with someone inside the Mosul University and the other with the former governor Athil Al Nujayfi of Nineveh Province in which Mosul is located.
Nujayfi said that 17 senior ISIS fighters and numerous locals were killed in the strikes.(ANI)

WASHINGTON, U.S. - The death of a U.S. marine in northern Iraq in an Islamic ...
New York, Mar. 21 (ANI): At least 100 ISIS militants have been killed in the ...
Washington D.C., Mar. 21 (ANI): Following the dramatic arrest of Salah Abdeslam, the prime suspect ...
Baghdad, March 22 (IANS) Iraqi security forces repelled four attacks by Islamic State (IS) terrorists ...
Iraqi Oil Minister Adel Abdel-Mahdi said on March 20 that Iraq exported its first ever ...
Get the latest Iraq Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Iraq Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved