2014-07~09
http://www.sify.com/news/china-sends-graft-inspectors-deep-into-restive-xinjiang-news-crime-pjkkFhaeigibe.html

China sends graft inspectors deep into restive Xinjiang
BEIJING, Sept 10 (Reuters) - China's ruling Communist Party
has sent its corruption inspectors deep into the heart of the
violence-prone far western region of Xinjiang, the party said on
Thursday, a part of the country which had been largely left out
of the graft fight.
The party's corruption-busting Central Commission for
Discipline Inspection said that the teams had "recently" taken
up their positions in 10 cities or counties, including Hotan, in
southern Xinjiang's Uighur heartland.
Hundreds of people have been killed in the region in the
past few years, most in violence between the Muslim Uighur
people who call Xinjiang home and ethnic majority Han Chinese.
President Xi Jinping has vowed to combat deep-seated
corruption since assuming power in late 2012, though parts of
China with big minority populations like Xinjiang and Tibet have
largely escaped the campaign so far.
However, the ethnic Uighur mayor of Hotan was put under
investigation for graft last year, a fate that befell another
senior Uighur, a secretary general of the regional government.
The inspection teams will look for corrupt practices such as
bribery and extravagance, as well as those who are "seriously
disunited", likely a reference to people who display a lack of
enthusiasm about unity between Xinjiang's difference races.
The graft watchdog also provided a list of telephone numbers
and postal address for people to get in touch and report corrupt
practices.
Other areas targeted for inspection include counties along
the remote border with Kazakhstan.
The officially atheist Communist Party has striven to
appoint and promote more minority officials but, in Xinjiang
especially, the Han Chinese-dominated party faces deep
suspicion.
Some recent attacks have targeted Uighurs aligned with the
government, including the killing of a state-backed Uighur imam
last year.
A deputy head of the Chinese Communist Party's graft
watchdog visited Interpol as part of a trip to France to push
for greater international cooperation in the fight against
corruption, state media said on Thursday. 

 (Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Nick Macfie)