2014-07~09
http://www.beijingbulletin.com/index.php/sid/226061173/scat/55582c89cb296d4c

China Details Accusations against Uighur Scholar Convicted of Separatism - Beijing Bulletin
China is outlining what it says is evidence that led to the separatism conviction against and life imprisonment of a prominent Uighur scholar.
There has been widespread international condemnation of this week's conviction of Ilham Tohti, an economics professor who pushed for greater rights for the minority Uighurs.
The United States, European Union, and several major international human rights groups have urged China to release Tohti, who they say was a strident but peaceful critic of Beijing.
An article in the official Xinhua news agency attempted to dispel that notion Thursday, portraying the professor as an extremist who encouraged his students to commit acts of violence.
Xinhua said prosecutors presented video footage showing Tohti urging his students to fight the Chinese government, which he allegedly called a "devil to the Uighur people."
The article also quoted unnamed witnesses who said Tohti "had been behind over 100 articles advocating separatism" on his Uighur Online website, which the government shut down.
Tohti's lawyer, Li Fangping, disputed many of the pieces of alleged evidence presented by Xinhua, saying the comments were inaccurate or misinterpreted.
Li told the French news agency that he has lodged a complaint on the grounds that it is illegal to publish evidence before Tohti has had a chance to appeal.
Li also said Chinese authorities also did not allow him to access the evidence before the trial because officials said it was "too sensitive."
A Chinese official in charge of ethnic affairs, Luo Liming, insisted Thursday that Tohti's sentencing "was carried out by the judiciary based on our state laws and regulations."
The 45-year-old Tohti has for decades given lectures, written articles, and commented to foreign media about China's treatment of the mostly Muslim Uighurs in the restive region of Xinjiang.
China has severely restricted Muslim religious life and traditional culture in Xinjiang. Many Uighurs also complain of what they say is preferential treatment towards the country's Han majority, which have flooded to the region.
Xinjiang has seen a rising number of violent attacks in recent years that have killed hundreds of people. Most of the attacks were initially directed at state targets, but now also frequently target civilians.
Beijing blames foreign-backed Muslim fighters who it says are trying to form an independent state in Xinjiang. Many exiled Uighur groups say the violence is prompted by China's treatment of Uighurs.
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Forty percent of India's population may not have drinking water by 2030, if the water crisis in country is not met seriously, a study has warned.
With the country facing a grave water crisis and lack of water conservation, the availability of potable water and ground water has decreased over the years which would result in severe situation in the country after a decade, said an activist for water conservation on the eve of World Water Day (March 22) observed to create awareness about water related issues and for action to deal with the global water crisis.
"By 2030, 40 percent of the total population in the country will not have drinking water if situation remains same," Jal Jan Jodo Abhiyan's national convenor Sanjay Singh told IANS, quoting a research published recently by the 2030 Water Resource Group (WRG).
"The ground water is depleting, the small tributaries have dried up to 90 percent and the flow of rivers has reduced by 60-65 percent. This will lead to a severe situation in the coming years reducing water availability to a great extent," he added.
He also said that the per capita demand has increased whereas the availability is very less. In fact, a report on ground water published by PRS Legislative Research --a non-governmental organisation -- says: "Due to increasing population, the national per capita annual availability of water has reduced by 15 percent from 2001 to 2011."
It also said that India uses almost twice the amount of water to grow crops as compared to China and the US.
"The gap between the availability and demand is increasing at a greater pace. Cities like Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai and other metropolitan cities consume water in huge quantities due to changed lifestyle of people. This must be looked into," Singh told IANS.
He also said that the efforts done by the government were not enough to meet the crisis.
South Asia Network on Dam, Rivers and People coordinator Himanshu Thakkar says water crisis in the country is multidimensional and is aggravating fast because of various factors including mismanagement of the resource.
He anticipates big problems based on the water crisis looming large in the country, if the situation continues.
"Ground water is the lifeline of the country which is depleting very fast. Water is part of ecological system as every living thing on earth needs water so if not dealt with properly the perennial water crisis may lead to more serious problems like food crisis, livelihood crisis, social conflicts," Thakkar told IANS.
He said that social conflicts based on water crisis have already started in the country. Tension between Haryana and Punjab over Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal project and conflicts in Marathwada region of Maharashtra over water are the latest examples.
"In terms of water crisis in India things have now come to such a pass that a district collector in Latur district in Maharashtra had to implement section 144 to avoid clashes between people due to water crisis," Thakkar told IANS.
Blaming the government in general being the major contributor towards the crisis, Thakkar said the government machinery was solely responsible for failing in water management.
"Government is responsible for water crisis in terms of mismanagement. The government does not involve people in the management of water. This year is a drought year so the problem has increased manifold but the efforts of the government does not seem sufficient to deal with the crisis," he said.
About the water crisis in Delhi, he said that mismanagement on part of governments can be seen easily as in February, Jat protesters took over Munak canal in Haryana stopping water supply to the national capital and it took over a fortnight to deal with the consequences.
Ruwa Shah can be contacted at ruwa.s@ians.in and Ashish Mishra can be contacted at ashish.m@ians.in)

BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
China has set lower targets for improving its energy efficiency by the end of 2020 ...
Chinese authorities in the northern region of Inner Mongolia are holding five ethnic Mongolian herders ...
Get the latest Beijing Bulletin headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Beijing Bulletin - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved