2014-07~09
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/books/bookreviews/11021518/The-Emperor-Far-Away-Travels-at-the-Edge-of-China-by-David-Eimer-review-a-fascinating-portrait.html

The Emperor Far Away: Travels at the Edge of China by David Eimer, review: 'a fascinating portrait' - Telegraph
At one point on his travels, David Eimer found himself in a nightclub attended by 10 young hostesses, being fed as many yaba (“crazy pills”: a locally produced amphetamine) as he could handle. He had penetrated one of the world’s least-governed places, an unrecognised state whose (thriving) economy is based on drug trafficking, with a sideline in prostitution, gambling and the sale of endangered animals. Yet Eimer was not in Afghanistan, or Colombia, but just across the south-west border of China.
Bookshelves are now groaning under the weight of China travelogues, but Eimer, the former China correspondent of The Sunday Telegraph, has forged genuinely new ground as he recounts his travels to China’s furthest corners, where attitudes and lifestyles are very different from the consumerism of Shanghai or the grey governmentality of Beijing.
The first part of Eimer’s journey is to the western regions of Xinjiang and Tibet. Both are ethnically different from the majority Han Chinese provinces of the interior, yet the central government has never managed to reconcile the region’s inhabitants to rule from Beijing. In Tibet, protests at Chinese rule have led to monks self-immolating in public, while a few of Xinjiang’s Uighurs have turned their rage outward, with one notorious suicide attack in Tiananmen Square in 2013. Beijing has responded with the tactics of the security state.
VISIT: Our complete guide to the best books to read, from novels to histories and memoirs
Eimer’s description of the transformation of Kashgar, the legendary oasis city in Xinjiang in the middle of the Taklamakan desert (“Go in and you won’t come out”), is heartbreaking. “In 1988, the old town [was] an intricate mesh of winding, cobblestoned lanes. Donkey carts clattered down the alleys, where the smell of spices mingled with the smoke billowing off the grills outside the restaurants.” No longer. In recent years, the old city has been largely bulldozed in the name of “modernisation” and replaced with concrete apartment blocks: not coincidentally, the new city grid is easier for police to monitor even though it has turned 1,000 years of history to dust.
The sections on Tibet and Xinjiang are written with empathy, but cover ground that other writers, including Paul Theroux and Colin Thubron, have tackled before. Eimer’s book really takes off in its second half, where he explores parts of China truly unknown to Western writers. Chinese paranoia about Tibet and Xinjiang is based on the fear that these regions might choose to separate from China. Yet something very similar has already happened on its south-western border.
Eimer made the dangerous journey to the Wa state, a region that sits at the border of China and Burma, and which uses the Chinese currency, but is effectively independent. The jungles and rivers in the region make it hard to control, and the soil is just right for poppy cultivation. The supposedly all-powerful Chinese state has little control over this place just across the border; in a place full of “child soldiers and teenage hookers… precious gems sold next to vegetables”. A narcostate on its border would seem a rather greater threat to China than suicidal Tibetan monks – China today has a massive and growing addiction problem – yet Beijing seems to have little idea what to do about either.
Eimer’s journey ends on the diametrically opposite side of the country, in the far north-east (“Manchuria”), where the frozen city of Heihe sits just across the Amur river from the drabber and less prosperous Russian city of Blagoveshchensk. Every day, hundreds of Russians cross the border to enjoy the cheap prices and bright lights of this remote Chinese city.
Yet they do so under siege. For there are merely 6.5 million Russians in their country’s far east, whereas there are more than 100 million in the north-eastern provinces of China alone. Slowly but inexorably, Chinese traders and the capital they bring with them are taking over the frozen far east of Russia, a commercial rather than imperial conquest.
A major achievement of this book is that it forces us to think in a more nuanced way about China’s approach towards the minorities within its borders. Beijing too often turns to oppressive political force, using crude tactics likely to lose hearts and minds.
Yet it is also capable of more sophisticated approaches. Koreans within China are permitted to use their own language in official institutions such as universities in their north-eastern homeland, a tactic that is designed to prevent a sudden breakdown in relations with North Korea.
And even Beijing, like the other great imperial capital, Washington, is sometimes impotent in the face of near-anarchic entrepreneurs such as drug lords who regard all state power with contempt.
Eimer’s odyssey around “the edge of China” provides a fascinating picture of a part of the country rarely examined in the many books on China’s go-go economy and fast-changing society.
Buy The Emperor Far Away: Travels at the Edge of China by David Eimer from the Telegraph Bookshop

Martin Chilton looks at quotes about matrimony from Socrates to Sinatra 


Great quotes from White House incumbents: will Donald Trump be joining them? 


To mark St David's Day, we pick 13 of the greatest writers from Wales 


Ireland has produced some of the greats of modern culture. Celebrate them on 
 St Partrick's Day 


Martin Chilton guides you through the history of the world in puns, 
 including the Ides of March


Chuck Norris was born on March 10, 1940. Here are 20 bizarre facts about the 
 tough guy actor


How Emma Watson, Rupert Grint and Daniel Radcliffe have changed over the past 
 14 years 


The Prince of Wales has told how story-telling sessions with his father 
 instilled in him a life-long love of literature - and made him a stickler 
 for correct grammar 


One Man, One Dog, and Their Incredible Story of Courage and Survival in World 
 War II


A collection of the best contributions and reports from the Telegraph 
 focussing on the key events, decisions and moments in Churchill's life 


This book tells the story of the men and women of Fighter Command who worked 
 tirelessly in air bases scattered throughout Britain to thwart the Nazis 


The essential gift book for any pet lover - real-life tales of devoted dogs, 
 rebellious cats and other unforgettable four-legged friends


A complete edition of John James Audubon's world famous The Birds of America, 
 bound in linen and beautifully presented in a special slipcase
