2014-07~09
http://www.asiabulletin.com/index.php/sid/225111523/scat/bf053b50c46383e0

China’s state media says teen masterminded killing of pro-Beijing imam in Xinjiang - Asia Bulletin
Chinese police have concluded that an 18-year-old, who was influenced by religious extremism, was the mastermind behind the murder of a state-backed imam in China’s western Xinjiang region, state media said on Monday. In late July, three suspected Islamist militants armed with knives and axes attacked Juma Tayir, a well-known pro-government Uighur who led prayers at China’s biggest mosque, in Xinjiang, according to Chinese authorities. Two of the attackers were later shot dead by police while the third, Nurmemet Abidili, was arrested. Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur peopl...
In the previousfive to tenyears the number of science parks in Russia hasgrownrapidly. Officially, there are nowmore than 300.
Experts, however, saya large number exist on paper only. For example, they might justbe office buildings, and notcenters of technologicalinnovation and development that the country needs in these difficult times.
According to the Russian Association of Clusters and Science Parks, there are only about70 genuinefull-fledged science parks in Russia. Theseare places where tech entrepreneurs can receive the full spectrumof necessary support.
"A genuinescience park consists of laboratories, and organizeseducational andaccelerationevents, as well as providesupport for startups that want to reachinternational markets; but the majority of science parks in Russia are either industrial areasor just office buildings," Renat Batyrov, general directorof the Skolkovo Science Park, told RBTH. He points to the IT-park in Kazan,and the Novosibirsk Science Park as examples of trulysuccessful projects.
In thesetimes of economic crisis and shortage of financing Russian science parks can onlycount onstate support. Private domesticinvestors are tightening budgets, andforeign investors are blocked by sanctions.
"If the government decides to invest in science parks, it would be one of the most effective anti-crisis measures," saidthe RussianAssociation of Clusters and Science Parks in a statement. "This would help create new high-tech companies and new jobs. Scienceparkscreate favorable conditions for the development of new businesses."
According to the Russian Communications Ministry, most science parks specialize in the IT field. Other fields include medicine, biotech, nanotechnology, and the development of new materials. One more important sector for Russia is the oil and gas industry.
Russia's massive size has an impact on science parks' specializations and geographic orientation. Parks in the Far East and Siberiaare oriented moretowards collaboration with China, Japan and South Korea.
"Due to our proximity, wecan serve asa window to Asia for Russian tech companies," Anatoly Semenov, directorof the Yakutia Science Park inSiberia, told RBTH. Thispark alreadyhas joint projects with a South Korean bio-tech companyinChuncheon Province.
Science parks in Moscow, St. Petersburg and Kaliningrad feel a stronger tieto Europe.
"We are oriented moretowards Finland, the Czech Republic and those countries closest to St. Petersburg," said Alexander Koloustov, director of the science park at the St. Petersburg National Research University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics.
The type of businessoften influences cooperation with other countries. For example, French companies are interested in Russia's south with its proximity to the markets of Eastern Europe and its agro-industrial potential.
"Due to the presence of Renault in our city, we are actively developing automobile technologies; and many French citizenscurrently live in Togliatti," noted Alexei Kokotkin, deputy general director of the Zhigulevskaya Dolina Science Park, whichalso collaborates with France in the field of space technologies.
As far as the futureMr. Batyrov believes that thepseudo science parks operatinginoffice buildingswill eventually vanish. Geographical specialization will be preserved and will possibly become even more defined.
"Considering Russia's technological needs there should bea science parkin every city witha population over 500,000 people,'' saidBatyrov. "It'snecessary to coordinatethe best parks, andcreate information systems that will help residents find partners in other science parks at homeand abroad.''
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia At least a dozen people on board a military helicopter have been ...
Get the latest Asia Bulletin headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Asia Bulletin - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved