2014-07~09
http://www.batonrougepost.com/index.php/sid/224243589

Knife-wielding gang kills dozens in Xinjiang - Baton Rouge Post
• More than 20 Uighur people were killed by armed authorities while 10 were injured, said Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress (WUC), citing a local source.
• The Uighurs were "resisting China's extreme repressive policy" when they were met with violence, Raxit added
• Chinese police shot dead dozens of the knife-wielding terror gang members in Xinjiang, state-run Xinhua said Tuesday
BEIJING - China's troubled Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region erupted in violence again as a knife-wielding gang staged assaults on two towns in the far western region that is home to the mainly Muslim Uyghur community, reports said.
Chinese police shot dead dozens of the knife-wielding terror gang members in Xinjiang, state-run Xinhua said Tuesday.
"A gang armed with knives and axes attacked a police station and government offices" in Shache county early Monday," the official Xinhua news agency said citing local police.
The gang had first attacked a police station and government offices in the town of Elixku, in Shache county, and some then moved on to the nearby town of Huangdi, attacking civilians and smashing and setting fire to vehicles.
"Dozens of Uighur and Han civilians were killed or injured", the report said.
Many people were wounded in the violence, which the report termed a "premeditated terrorist attack."
Beijing waited nearly a day before officially confirming the violence via state media. Earlier, China's Internet minders were scrubbing social networks for references about the unrest, said the Voice of America.
Some postings said telephone and Internet communications have been cut. But calls to Shache, also known as Yarkant County, did go through.
More than 20 Uighur people were killed by armed authorities while 10 were injured, said Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress (WUC), citing a local source.
A total of 13 armed Chinese personnel were killed and injured, he said, adding that about 67 people were arrested.
The Uyghurs were "resisting China's extreme repressive policy" when they were met with violence, Raxit added.
The Xinjiang region has seen other attacks in recent months.
In March, 29 people were killed and 130 injured when men armed with long knives stormed a train station in Kunming. The following month, an attack on a train station in Urumqi, Xinjiang's capital, left three dead, including the attackers, and an attack on an Urumqi market in May killed at least 39 people.
Nearly 200 people have been killed in ongoing violence in Xinjiang and other parts of the country in the past year.
Beijing has launched a year-long security campaign, boosting the presence of troops and police throughout the region.
Moscow, March 19 (IANS) All 55 passengers on board a plane, flying from Dubai to Rostov-on-Don city in Russia, were killed after the aircraft crashed at the city airport, officials said on Saturday.
The plane, a Boeing 737, missed the runway due to poor visibility, which led to the crash, Xinhua news agency reported quoting officials.

ASCENSION - Ascension Parish Sheriff’s Office arrested 35-year-old LaKeisha Marshall, from Donaldsonville, for failing to ...
<br>BATON ROUGE - Two disaster recovery centers will be open Monday, Mar. 21 in Monroe ...
<br>BATON ROUGE- Today's Pledge of Allegiance comes from the Pre-K 3 class at Delmont Dedicated ...
ASCENSION - Ascension Parish Sheriff’s Office arrested 35-year-old LaKeisha Marshall, from Donaldsonville, for failing to ...
ASCENSION - Ascension Parish Sheriff’s Office arrested 35-year-old LaKeisha Marshall, from Donaldsonville, for failing to ...
Get the latest Baton Rouge Post headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Baton Rouge Post - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved