2014-07~09
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/08/20/russia-ferguson_n_5695111.html

Even Russia Is Criticizing The Police Crackdown In Ferguson
WASHINGTON -- As clashes continue between police and protesters in Ferguson, Missouri, Russia's Foreign Ministry suggested on Wednesday that the United States should "pay closer attention" to its internal struggles over race and ethnicity.
Konstantin Dolgov, the ministry's human rights commissioner, said the situation in Ferguson should have a "sobering effect" on American society.
"We think U.S. authorities should pay closer attention to burning internal problems, including those related to ethnicity and race that still exist in the United States," Dolgov told the news channel Rossiya 24. "Try to solve them via legal constitutional practices rather than unjustified and inadequate violence."
"What is happening in Missouri right now should have a sobering effect on U.S. society and authorities," he added. "They are systematic problems. They are by no means limited to one particular city or state."
Dolgov criticized the police's use of force against protesters in Ferguson and the treatment of journalists covering the story on the ground, several of whom were arrested or detained over the last week. Dolgov said such actions appeared to stem from a desire to prevent Americans from seeing negative images of their own government.
Russia, of course, is no stranger to being criticized for human rights violations. Russian President Vladimir Putin has fiercely cracked down on dissidents, including journalists, government whistleblowers and average citizens. Earlier this year, the international watchdog Human Rights Watch said the climate in Russia was the worst in post-Soviet history.
But countries like Russia, China and Egypt appear to be relishing the events in Ferguson, which they see as hypocritical given the U.S. government's tendency to denounce the conditions in their countries. State-run media in both China and Russia has aggressively targeted the U.S. over Ferguson, while Egypt's Ministry of Foreign Affairs called for "restraint and respect for the right of assembly and peaceful expression of opinion" in Ferguson.
Like Russia, both China and Egypt are known for their repressive governance and are frequently described by international watchdogs as notable abusers of human rights.
In Egypt, it is illegal to protest without prior permission from authorities. The government has locked up thousands of people without fair trial, and more than 800 protesters were killed last year in the Rabaa massacre. The Chinese government also frequently cracks down on protesters and faced a U.N. review of its human rights record for tightening its controls on ethnic minorities, such as the Tibetan and Uighur populations.
USA Today's Yamiche Alcindor provides an intimate look at how Michael Brown's parents have been dealing with the loss of their son:
Phones constantly ring with reporters asking for interviews or family members offering support. Last week, as demands reached a tipping point, both parents moved into hotels to shield themselves.
In the days leading up to the funeral, Brown's mother continued to cry and spoke in whispers as she tried to explain her feelings.
"They say tomorrow is going to be the hardest day, but I think today was — just seeing my baby laying there, cold," Lesley McSpadden, 34, told USA TODAY. "It did something to my heart. It's too much. It's too much."
New audio has surfaced that allegedly captures the moment when Michael Brown, an unarmed black teenager, was shot dead by Darren Wilson, a white police officer, on Aug. 9.
CNN aired the unverified recording on Monday night. Six shots can be heard, followed by a pause, then several more. A private autopsy performed on Aug. 17 at the request of Brown's family found that the 18-year-old was shot 6 times, including twice in the head.
Al Sharpton: America, it's time to deal with policing. We are not the haters we are the healers. #MikeBrown #MikeBrownFuneral
Rev. Al Sharpton: All of us are required to respond to this #MikeBrownfuneral
Benjamin Crump: We will not accept 3/5 justice, we demand equal justice for #MikeBrown #MikeBrownFuneral
USA Today reporter, Yamiche Alcindor shares photo of program which includes tributes to Michael Brown from his mother and father
The program includes tributes from both the mother and father of #MichaelBrown pic.twitter.com/CbAPy8xKEq
Stepmother of #MichaelBrown said the late teen "pretty much prophesied his own death and didn't realize it."
#MikeBrown's best friend speaking. Says not long before his death, he admitted that he had been dreaming about death. #MikeBrownfuneral
Funeral program includes photos of #MichaelBrown from several stages of life pic.twitter.com/fjhaqu26Xm
Folks still trying to get inside at #MichaelBrown funeral. pic.twitter.com/cwKo3ILkuI