2014-07~09
http://ca.reuters.com/article/topNews/idCAKBN0G14D020140801

Nine more killed after week of violence in China's Xinjiang | Top News | Reuters
BEIJING (Reuters) - Nine militants were shot dead and one captured in China's restive far western region of Xinjiang on Friday, state media said, the latest bout of violence in a week in which dozens have been killed there.
The official Xinhua news agency said the incident happened in a rural area close to Hotan city in Xinjiang's far south, when more than 30,000 civilians involved in a counter-terror operation with police saw "signs" of a terror gang in a corn field.
"Police and the 30,000 civilians in unison surrounded the terror gang, and forced them into an abandoned house," the report said.
Explosive devices were thrown at both the police and civilians, and the police "took decisive action" and shot dead the attackers, the report said.
The operation had begun on Sunday when local people tipped police off about the existence of the gang, the report said.
China usually uses terms like "terror gang" to describe Islamist militants or separatists.
Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people, who speak a Turkic language, has been beset for years by violence which the government blames on Islamist militants or separatists who it says want an independent state called East Turkestan.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest - a claim Beijing denies.
Hundreds have been killed in Xinjiang in the past year and a half, and the past few days have seen a series of deadly incidents, including the murder of a prominent pro-government imam at a major mosque in the old Silk Road city of Kashgar. 
  Continued...
International Editions :

Africa  | 
 Arabic  | 
 Argentina  | 
 Brazil  | 
 Canada  | 
 China  | 
 France  | 
 Germany  | 
 India  | 
 Italy  | 
 Japan  | 
 Latin America  | 
 Mexico  | 
 Russia  | 
 Spain  | 
 United Kingdom  | 
 United States
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.