2014-07~09
http://www.smh.com.au/world/china-executes-8-on-terrorism-charges-in-xinjiang-20140824-107qqj.html

China executes 8 on terrorism charges in Xinjiang
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News, My Clippings, My Comments and user settings.
Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.

 The October 2013 car attack in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, blamed on Islamist separatists from Xinjiang.
Beijing: Eight people convicted of terrorism, including three accused of masterminding last October's deadly vehicle explosion in Tiananmen Square, have been executed, China's state-run media said Saturday.
It was not clear exactly when or where the executions were carried out, but they were approved by the supreme court in Xinjiang province, in China's far north-west, the official New China News Agency reported.
A recent spate of bombings and stabbings have been attributed to separatists among the Uighur population, a Turkic-speaking and mostly Muslim ethnic minority in the region. Since the beginning of 2013, nearly 300 people have been killed in violence for which authorities blame Uighur militants.

 Armed Chinese police patrol the streets of Urumqi, the main city in Xinjiang, in May. Photo: Sanghee Liu

All eight of those executed appeared to be Uighurs. They had been convicted of offences that included killing a government official, making explosives illegally and organising terrorist groups, authorities said.
Huseyin Guxur, Yusup Wherniyas and Yusup Ehmet were put to death for organising the October 28, 2013 attack that killed five people and injured 39 in Tiananmen Square. In that incident, a jeep ploughed through a crowd of tourists and erupted in flames in front of the Forbidden City. Two tourists and the three people in the vehicle died.
Their convictions and death sentences were reported in June, though at the time New China News Agency gave slightly different spellings of their names. The trio allegedly began plotting the attack in 2011.

 A sign on the side of a village mosque in Xinjiang's Poskam County warns locals not to engage in "illegal religious activities". Photo: Sanghee Liu

The others whose executions were announced on Saturday had been convicted of offences in Xinjiang, the news agency said. They were:
Ethnic and cultural tensions have been rising in Xinjiang for years as more Han Chinese have moved into the region, rendering Uighurs a minority in most areas. Uighurs complain that the central government has stifled religious and cultural freedom, and more extremist elements have been fighting for independence.

 Compare variable rates as low as 3.99% p.a. now

 All Galaxy S7 plans from all major telcos available now

 Grab a bargain on one of the year's best phones