2014-07~09
http://nvonews.com/five-boko-haram-terrorists-surrender-in-nigeria/

Northern Voices Online Five Boko Haram terrorists surrender in Nigeria

Abuja, Sep 22 (IANS) Authorities in Nigeria Sunday confirmed that some Boko Haram terrorists have begun to surrender voluntarily following relentless onslaught by troops.


At least five terrorists surrendered Saturday with all their weapons to troops in Borno state’s Konduga pleading for mercy, Xinhua quoted the Nigerian Defense Headquarters (DHQ) as saying in a statement.

Other captured terrorists who refused to surrender have also been giving useful information on the subsequent plans of the group in an apparent effort to cooperate, the statement added.

In the last few days there had been several attempts by desperate terrorists to gain entry into Konduga which were foiled by the troops.

The terrorists’ move, according to the statement, is aimed at recovering the bodies of their prominent fighters who died in previous encounters in the area.

The country’s defence authority last Thursday arrested a senior commander of the Boko Haram sect which is blamed for killing hundreds of people since 2009.

The commander, whose identity remain unknown, was captured in a military operation last Wednesday.

Sixty fighters of the Boko Haram were reported killed in series of attacks they launched to gain access to Konduga area of northeast Borno State.

The Boko Haram, an Islamist sect, has proved to be a major security threat in Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, in the last five years.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Why this Baptist woman, high school counselor is wearing a Muslim Hijab in Kansas City? A 47-year...
Donald Trump for President 2016: What he will say at Jewish AIPAC Conference Donald Trump has said...
Hunt for new AMU VC begins now ALIGARH: A special meeting of the Executive Council of the...
5 MSc students bag jobs at Azim Premji Foundation Aligarh, March 17: Five students of M Sc, Department of Physics, Aligarh Muslim University have been selected by India’s leading ‘Azim Premji Foundation’ in a Campus Placement Drive recently held at AMU. Professor M Afzal Ansari, Chairperson, Department of Physics, AMU informed that...
Supreme Court Nomination: Obama nominates Judge Merrick Garland ignoring Sri Srinivasan WASHINGTON : President Barack Obama has...
ISRO’s new project: Forecasting of natural disasters Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) is carrying out the following...
Smile Train concludes ‘Cleft Week’ Aligarh: Director of New York, USA based ‘Smile Train’ project, Professor Arshad Hafeez Khan under the patronage of J N Medical College and Hospital, Principal and CMS, Prof Tariq Mansoor recently concluded ‘Cleft Week’ programme. The week long programme was organized and executed by the Department of...
Pfizer stops cough syrup Corex sale following Indian govt notification: Why it has been stopped New Delhi:...
NVO is a mission and not a business oriented enterprise. It has been launched to serve the mankind selflessly and in a better way. In the very short time it has acquired the reputation of one of the most popular and credible online news organization in Northern India.
Copyright © 2016 NVO News.Powered by C9 software & Solution Pvt Ltd
