2014-07~09
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2014/08/07/chinese-lawyer-gao-zhisheng-released-from-prison-now-what/

Chinese Lawyer Gao Zhisheng Released From Prison; Now What? - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
Dissident lawyer Gao Zhisheng appears to have won release from a western China prison on Thursday, taking steps toward an uncertain future.
Mr. Gao left the prison accompanied by his eldest brother, according to Chinese activist Hu Jia, who said he had spoken with the brother. Mr. Hu also posted details to his Twitter account.
A self-taught lawyer known for taking hardship cases, Mr. Gao had been in and out of prison for much of the past decade when in December 2011, China’s state-run news agency Xinhua said he was being sent back for violating terms of his parole. His run-ins with authorities in China have won Mr. Gao widespread sympathy and respect in the human-rights community.
While the release of Mr. Gao on Thursday was scheduled, it remains to be seen whether he will be permitted to move freely or whether he will face continued surveillance by police. A phone call to the prison where Mr. Gao served his sentence in Xinjiang rang unanswered on Thursday. Mr. Gao couldn’t be reached for comment.
Legally a resident of Urumqi in Xinjiang province, Mr. Gao had been held in the western region’s Shaya Prison. Now, according to Mr. Hu’s messages, Mr. Gao and his brother are returning to Urumqi where Mr. Gao will seek medical attention for teeth problems. Mr. Hu said Mr. Gao and his brother would then return to Yulin, where Mr. Gao grew up.
Mr. Gao’s scheduled release has long been anticipated. Last month, Tom Malinowski, a U.S. State Department assistant secretary in the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, called for the lawyer’s release, telling a press event that, “We urge Chinese authorities to release Gao as scheduled on Aug. 7 and allow him to return to his family, without harassment or restrictions to his movement.”
Human rights activists sometimes compare Mr. Gao with blind lawyer Chen Guangcheng, whose longtime house arrest ended when in the spring of 2012 he made a daring flight to the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, where he then won asylum during a tough week for Sino-U.S. diplomacy.
As lawyers, both Mr. Gao and Mr. Chen accepted cases that caused them political problems with Chinese authorities. In Mr. Gao’s focus were people convicted in China’s sweep of activists affiliated with the banned group Falun Gong.
For his work, Mr. Gao has been punished in China. He described severe beatings while in police custody, including during a 2011 interview with the Associated Press.
Several members of Mr. Gao’s family now live in the U.S., including his wife, who has continued to call attention to his hardships.
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

What ? No one wants to discuss the Chinese justice system ? It must be an important subject as the drones are here to deflect.
If you watch the Russian's Victory Parade in the Red Square each year, you will be enjoying both great marching music and military force.
For the US, only their high schools have that kind of band to play great music like those, and their troops have been in Afghan and Iraq for the past 12 some years or more.
Victor Alas and Jose Reyes are two Texan teens who killed another teen the way that the Chinese would never imagine. I betya. Go and see how the Texans are working.
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
