2015-04~06
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/society/article/1823144/chinese-uygur-shot-railway-station-dies-later-his-injuries

Chinese Uygur dies after shooting at railway station | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Police say man charged into ticket line holding a brick and ignored warnings to give himself up. Killing latest in series of violent incidents at railway stations in China
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
A Uygur man who allegedly charged at a queue of passengers at a Xian train station while holding a brick died yesterday after he was shot by police.
Public sensitivity to security at the mainland's railway stations has increased after a series of incidents including a mass stabbing in March last year that left 31 people dead in Kunming , capital of Yunnan province.
Authorities blamed that attack on separatist militants from the region of Xinjiang , home to the Turkic-speaking Muslim Uygur people.
In a brief statement on its official microblog, Xian railway police said that at about 6am yesterday a Uygur man holding a brick "charged into" a line of people at the station who were waiting to buy tickets.
"On-duty police quickly got to the scene to stop [the man] and after repeated warnings were ignored, opened fire and injured [the man]," police said.
The man died of his wounds in hospital, police said, adding the situation had returned to normal at the station.
The statement was later amended without explanation to remove reference to the man's ethnicity. Police provided no further details.
Xian is a popular tourist destination as it is close to the famous Terracotta Army. It also has a sizeable Muslim population, many of whom live in the city's famed Muslim Quarter that is home to the 8th century Great Mosque.
A picture on state television's microblog showed a body on the ground, which had been pixelated out, on what looked like a square in front of the station with the old city walls behind it. The body was surrounded by police, two of whom carried riot shields.
This week is the beginning of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, a sensitive time in Xinjiang, especially after an increase in deadly attacks blamed by Beijing on Islamist militants over the past three years in which hundreds have died.
The mainland has about 20 million Muslims spread across the country, about half of them Uygurs. Mainland authorities have blamed the violence on terrorists inspired by global jihadist propaganda seeking to overthrow Chinese rule in their homeland of Xinjiang.