2015-04~06
http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/editorial/28-Jun-2015/religious-fanaticism

Religious fanaticism  
In the latest such incident, 18 people were killed in Ramzan in China’s far western Xinjiang province by Islamist extremists. Ethnic Muslim Uighur extremists attacked policemen with knives and bombs. In recent years, such incidents have taken a mounting toll of ordinary citizens as well as Chinese officials. The perpetrators have been handed down the death sentence. Pakistan has been held responsible for housing these extremist groups in the tribal areas. China on many occasions has quietly pressed Pakistan to take necessary action against these terrorist groups spreading violence in the name of religion. Terrorism is terrorism, regardless in what robes it is dressed. There is no justification for killing people in the name of religion.
Beijing insists there are no flaws in its ethnic policies. However, the rise in extremism amongst some Uighurs under the influence of their co-ethnics who joined jihadi struggles and trained with the Afghan mujahideen, Taliban and other foreign fighters, not to mention the Pakistani Taliban, in Pakistan’s tribal areas has induced a get tough policy. In Ramzan this year, Beijing’s instructions hardened against Islamic rituals and practices. Reportedly, civil servants, students and teachers were banned in Xinjiang from fasting. The Chinese authorities would be advised to revisit such policies, which inadvertently bring grist to the mill of the extremists. Communism and religion may not be compatible, but communist regimes of the past learnt to their cost that mere repression has the opposite effect to what was intended. Repression strengthens religious defensiveness, driving adherents into a siege mentality, from which the only feasible way out suggests itself to be violence. Of course such terrorism on the basis of religion can hardly offer a viable future for the Uighur people. But Beijing must adopt a more nuanced policy if it is not to end up repeating the experience of the former Soviet Union. In the heyday of communism in the USSR, it was claimed religion had been buried for good. However, Moscow forgot its own philosophy of dialectics and failed to anticipate the rise of religion with a vengeance after the demise of the Soviet Union. The revival of religion in Central Asia and other parts of the Russian Federation (e.g. Chechnya) indicates that the question of religion needs wiser and more patient handling. Religious practices may be allowed in Xinjiang under a moderate umbrella drawn from the local populace. That may provide a more efficacious weaning away from the message of the extremists and permit the undoubtedly progressive policies of the Chinese government to persuade the Uighur majority that they are better off in China than in pursuit of a reactionary dream of separation under an Islamic regime. *

 Finally, government has diverted its attention to the actual area of concern. It has announced that ...

 The latest round of rallies held by the Pakistan People’s Party in protest over the ...

 It will be no exaggeration to suggest that the decade-long Soviet-Afghan war, which started in ...