2015-04~06
http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/biz/archives/2015/06/07/2003620090

Muslim wine ferments divisions in China - Taipei Times
When Chen Naibao got into the wine business, he left out the pigeon blood and lamb meat that have been hallmarks of vintages in China’s Xinjiang region for more than a thousand years.
The animal parts are usually added to enhance flavor and increase the supposed medicinal qualities of museles, a traditional wine raved about in Tang Dynasty poetry and long fermented by local Uighurs, despite the Muslim prohibition on alcohol.
Deep red, its unusual ingredients give it a pungent, musty nose and a sweet-sour, spiced taste, akin to a vermouth.
Chen’s recipe has extra sugar and his own production is noticeably sweeter, even cloying, with a more golden-brown hue.
Xinjiang, home to most of China’s more than 10 million Uighurs, sees sporadic violence authorities blamed on Muslim separatists, which has increased in intensity and spread beyond its borders in recent years.
Uighurs say they face discrimination and restrictions on language, culture and religion, but China counters it has brought development and raised living standards.
Nonetheless, Chen’s business shows how the benefits of economic growth often go to immigrants from China’s Han majority rather than Uighur locals, exacerbating ethnic tensions.
It is unclear when exactly Uighurs started making museles, but during the Tang Dynasty (618-907) — considered the peak of Chinese civilization — poets referred to it as “Western nectar.”
Museles is often spiced with saffron or cloves, in addition to pigeon blood, whole pigeon or lamb meat, and is typically aged for two months in ceramic vats.
However, Chen grew up and still lives partly in Jiangsu Province, more than 3,700km away on China’s eastern coast. He set up the business only four years ago after buying an existing winery and has little time for its heritage.
“I took this Uighur wine and made it better,” he boasted in his spartan office at the 2-hectare vineyard — he buys in most of his grapes. “We have science and ordinary Uighurs making wine don’t understand any of that.”
Despite breaking from tradition, Chen’s winery in Awat near the Kyrgyz border has a key advantage over local firms that have been making museles for generations: government financial support.
Chen recently built a 5 million yuan (US$800,000) extension to his winery and upgraded the boilers, raising his potential capacity to 1,000 tonnes a year.
One of Beijing’s subsidy schemes provided 1 million yuan of funding, while smaller Uighur wineries in the area have enjoyed no similar largesse.
“By virtue of having the program, the government can say: ‘Look we’re developing the region,’” said Reza Hasmath, a professor of Chinese politics at Oxford University. “But they don’t take that extra step to create greater awareness and access to the programs for Uighurs.”
Such offers are often only learned of through word-of-mouth among well-connected businesspeople elsewhere in China, but the effects are more pronounced in Xinjiang, Hasmath said.
The Xinjiang government spent 530 million yuan on small and medium business programs in 2013, according to the regional budget.
That does not include central government schemes like Chen’s. Comprehensive figures for them are not made public, but the regional cotton industry alone received 3.5 billion yuan from Beijing last year.
Despite alcohol being forbidden in Islam, many Uighurs view museles more as a type of medicine than wine, taken like vitamins.
Comments will be moderated. Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned.