2015-04~06
http://leadership.ng/news/441553/china-bans-ramadan-fasting-in-mainly-muslim-region

China Bans Ramadan Fasting In Mainly Muslim Region | Nigerian News from Leadership News
China has banned civil servants, students and teachers in its mainly Muslim Xinjiang region from fasting during Ramadan and ordered restaurants to stay open.
Most Muslims are required to fast from dawn to dusk during the holy month, which began yesterday, but China’s ruling Communist party is officially atheist and for years has restricted the practice in Xinjiang, home to the mostly Muslim Uighur minority.
“Food service workplaces will operate normal hours during Ramadan,” said a notice posted last week on the website of the state Food and Drug Administration in Xinjiang’s Jinghe county.
Officials in the region’s Bole county were told: “During Ramadan do not engage in fasting, vigils or other religious activities,” according to a local government website report of a meeting this week.
Each year, the authorities’ attempt to ban fasting among Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang receives widespread criticism from rights groups.
Uighur rights groups say China’s restrictions on Islam in Xinjiang have added to ethnic tensions in the region, where clashes have killed hundreds in recent years.
China says it faces a “terrorist threat” in Xinjiang, with officials blaming “religious extremism” for the growing violence.
For Africa and Africans, migration is a way of life and this is also largely true of people of the other continents. Mobility has always been critical in sustaining or…
Since the beginning of agriculture (especially with animal husbandry), conflicts between farming and pastoralist groups have consistently featured. Be that as it may, the frequent violent clashes between the two…
Global oil prices have been fallen sharply over the past seven months, leading to significant revenue shortfalls in many energy exporting nations. From 2010 until mid-2014, world oil prices had…
The economy is critical to any society. The welfare of all individuals in any polity is based on the economic performance of that entity. Here, we have a Central Bank…
These days, the answer to the headline question comes in dollars. You have probably heard the story of the orange seller who told a potential customer that one orange now…
It is becoming very difficult to follow the list of corruption charges by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Every government ministry, department or agency is ruined by corruption.…
Several issues have been calling for the attention of President Muhammadu Buhari in recent times. Of the six or seven issues I’ve listed so far, the president has responded to…