2015-04~06
http://www.worldbulletin.net/world/161000/chinese-beer-festival-irks-exiled-uyghurs

Chinese beer festival irks exiled Uyghurs | Caucasus | Worldbulletin News
A county in the heavily Muslim southern part of China's unruly region of Xinjiang has held a beer festival in the run-up to the holy month of Ramadan, the government said, in what an exiled group called an open provocation.
Ramadan is a sensitive time in Xinjiang in China's far west after an uptick in attacks over the past three years, in which hundreds have died, blamed by Beijing on militants.
State media and Xinjiang government websites have published stories and official notices again this year demanding that Communist Party members, civil servants, students and teachers in particular do not observeRamadan and do not fast.
The beer festival happened in a village in Niya County in the deep south of Xinjiang, which is overwhelmingly populated by the Muslim Uighur people who call Xinjiang home. Muslims are not meant to consume alcohol, according to the Koran.
The Niya government website said the "beer competition", which happened last Monday just before the start of Ramadan, was attended by more than 60 young farmers and herders.
It showed pictures of women dancing in front of a stage and a line of men downing as much beer as they could in one minute. At least one was wearing a traditional Uighur skull cap.
"This beer competition was varied and entertaining," the government said, noting that there were cash awards of up to 1,000 yuan ($161) for competition winners.
The article was picked up on the regional government's news website early on Sunday.
"Its aim was to use modern culture to brighten up the village's cultural life, squeeze the space for illegal religious promotion ... and guarantee the village's harmony and stability," the website said.
It quoted one villager as saying: "This activity that's been organised is great, livening up the busy farming seasons and banishing our tiredness. I'm going to drink up, and I'll definitely get a top prize to take home and make my wife happy."
Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the exiled group the World Uyghur Congress, condemned the event.
"This is an open provocation to the Islamic faith," he said in an emailed statement.
China's Communist Party says it protects freedom of religion but it maintains a tight grip on religious activities and allows only officially recognised institutions to operate.
China has around 20 million Muslims throughout the country, only a portion of which are Uighur.
They were killed in an 'ongoing army operation' in El Oued province, 600 kilometres (370 miles) southeast of Algiers
US president starts his formal meeting with his Cuban counterpart in Havana
A report lays bare the extent of the damage since the insurgency began in 2009 and which at one point saw the armed group control swathes of territory across the northeast of Nigeria
'We agreed from the European Union side to increase the support to Lebanon that has been significant so far,' Federica Mogherini says
Interior ministry officials are probing all the facts and circumstances of the event
'Lack of cooperation regrettably seems to signal the continuation of a situation under which Palestinians suffer daily human rights violations under the Israeli occupation,' Makarim Wibisono says
'The delay in the entry into force of the rules agreed upon for responding to violations of the ceasefire in Syria is unacceptable,' a Russian general says
Iraqi forces are preparing to launch offensive to expel ISIL from Mosul, which was captured by terrorist group in 2014
Ukrainian pilot has been found guilty over journalist killings in the Russian-fabricated case
African Union hopes transparency and peace will prevail during elections in Niger, Congo, Benin, Cape Verde and Zanzibar; and referendum in Senegal
Tounes Movement Project has been launched by a breakaway group from the Nidaa Tounes party
Observers question Palestinian Authority's policy of putting all its eggs in elusive basket of 'statehood'
'This analysis shows very clearly why leaving the European Union would be a real blow for living standards, jobs and growth,' a business group head says
'The incentives are aligned for Iran to uphold its side of the deal. We're watching Iran like a hawk,' US VP says
Morocco's government has ordered out 80 of U.N. workers in Moroccan-held Western Sahara over an ongoing dispute regarding the Western Sahara
'I am delighted to join President Obama in wishing a happy, healthy, and prosperous Nowruz to all our friends around the world who celebrate this holiday,' says the secretary of state
Chinese police raided 148 points in Muslim Xinjiang in 2014
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
