2015-04~06
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2015/06/18/China-bans-fasting-during-holy-month-of-Ramadan-says-group/7991434632816/

Beijing says no to Ramadan, says Uighur group - UPI.com
BEIJING, June 18 (UPI) -- China continued its suppression of Uighur Muslims in its West – this time banning them from fasting during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan.
The religious fasting is set to occur between June 18 and July 16, but Beijing has once again banned Ramadan, an expatriate Uighur group told Radio Free Asia on Wednesday.
Uighur leader Dilxat Raxit said China's authoritative move would only strengthen Uighur resistance against Chinese rule, The Independent reported.
"The faith of the Uighurs has been highly politicized and the increase in controls could cause sharp resistance," the exiled Raxit said.
China has previously enacted policies indicating its wariness of "religious extremism" in its far west "autonomous" province. Human rights groups have condemned Beijing's move to curb religion from Uighur culture, but China's authorities insist the move is to guarantee the separation of religion and education.
The rule however has not been equally applied to other religious groups.
China has been coercing Uighur parents, urging them to promise their children would not fast on Ramadan, according to Raxit.
The International Business Times reported halal restaurants located along China's border with Kazakhstan were being told to stay open during the day.
The Hong Kong Standard reported tensions are not abating in the remote regions where ethnic Uighurs reside. In the north-central city of Xi'an on Wednesday, Chinese state media reported a Uighur man hurled a concrete brick and attacked several people at a train station.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.