2015-04~06
http://www.dawn.com/news/1185929/chinese-delegation-congratulates-pakistan-on-achieving-consensus-at-apc

Chinese delegation congratulates Pakistan on achieving consensus at APC - Pakistan - DAWN.COM
ISLAMABAD: A delegation of Research and Development International (RDI) — the new joint China-Pakistan think tank on China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) — congratulated PM Nawaz and the government on Wednesday on achieving a historic consensus on the project.
A recently held All Parties Conference (APC) resulted in support from the entire political spectrum of Pakistan, after leaders from some political parties had shown their concerns regarding the possible route of the CPEC project.
Know more: Parties pledge to take full political ownership of CPEC
During the meeting with the delegation at PM House, PM Nawaz said that a parliamentary committee has also been formed to oversee CPEC projects and to speed up the process of building the corridor.
He also said that Pakistan and China are "iron brothers" cooperating closely in all domains with the common vision of building a better future for the people of both countries and promote peace in the region.
PM Nawaz welcomed the establishment of RDI which comprises leading scholars and public figures from Beijing as well as a top business group from China's autonomous region of Xinjiang Uyghur, which borders Pakistan. Through the CPEC, the region will be connectec with the rest of China.
In the backdrop of the recent visit by President Xi Jinping, PM Nawaz said that CPEC is the flagship project of the "One Belt, One Road" initiative, since both the belt and the road have their meeting point in Pakistan, and would be immensely beneficial for both the countries.
In the presence of President Xi, more than 50 agreements and Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) were signed giving a historic opportunity to Pakistan and China to forge an even stronger relationship, he said.
The premier also extended deepest condolences to the leadership and people of China on the tragic incident of a ship sinking in Yangtze river in which over 400 persons are still missing and many casualties are feared.
Take a look: Over 400 go missing as Chinese cruise vessel capsizes
The delegation informed the PM Nawaz that RDI plans to establish a China-Pakistan Information Corridor as well, in order to support and supplement the CPEC, which would be a one-window operation to provide necessary information to all.
The premier was also informed that Chinese authorities are deliberating to hold a CPEC forum every year in the city of Karamay in Xinjiang. The delegation invited PM Nawaz to visit Karamay to see the speciel economic zone established there.
The delegation further expressed interest in exploring various areas of cooperation with Pakistan in fields such as fisheries, information technology and agriculture. They also conveyed regards of Mr Zhang Chun Xian, top Chinese leader of the Xinjiang autonomous region, to PM Nawaz.
The Chinese delegation was headed by Dr Balge Zhao, Former Minister for Family Planning and co-chairperson Pakistan-China Joint Think Tank on CPEC.
Special Assistant to the prime minister, Mr Tariq Fatemi and Senator Mushahid Hussain Sayed, Co-Chair, Joint Think Tank on CPEC also attended the meeting along with Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan, Mr Sun Weidong.
Keep the progress moving forward. But must have a vision!!
That is why we have respect for China deep in our hearts. Simply becuase she and we have common intersts and we respect each other.
all talks please bring it on grounds faster...A Bullet train from Karachi to Kashghar.. how grt it would be.... but sorry its not yet planned...
I think we can learn a lot from China and how china lifted millions of people from poverty to prosperity. We need a tax paying middle class and CPEC is the opportunity to build infrastructure. But govt should not forget to invest in human development
This project is clearly critical for China and taking control of project information as well through a joint RDI. Good! This will make sure things remain on track. Pakistan's politicians are not competent enough to manage such a large scale project.
Its good news that direct CPEC corridor route is agreed upon by all parties and all provinces. Now a big question remains about 'Quality Control' of the upcomming CPEC construction. Hopefully a highly professional and independent team of quality inspectors would be employed to inspect and monitor every mile of this mega project. Use of any substandard material or poor work quality would mean nothing but trouble. No body wants to hear about broken road here, broken highway there, or damaged lines all over causing traffic delays, and waste of money in reconstruction 12 months a year afterwards. So please assign a strong and independent team of quality professionals right from the start. Nothing verbal, check material quality, check workmanship and record it. If something goes wrong, force material supplier and contractor to do it again for free at their own cost. Thank you.
@Khan1857 To become an advance country, a country needs hard working patriotic leaders. Any leaders interested in making money for themselves or keep buying properties in Dubai or London year round may not be a solution to eradicate poverty and solve many problems faced by its people.
Thank you very much to Chjnese government and Chinese people for assisting
Pakistan in hour of need,a friend in need is a friend indeed
The Chinese want some thinking done on how this route is going to be protected.
We in China are excited to supply you with more locomotives , nuclear and non nuclear power plants and metro rail.
Trust me , you will receive the best Chinese engineering, as we have always endeavoured, such as our joint effort J17.
Soon our exports and your imports will flow like a river.
@Mubashir Completion of this CPEC Corridor would be a major achievement. A win win situation for both countries. Pakistan and China, two great friends and great countries, both will greatly benefit economically. Best wishes for success of this great project.

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
