2015-04~06
http://www.deccanherald.com/content/485434/uighurs-attack-police-chinas-xinjiang.html

Uighurs attack police in China's Xinjiang region, 18 dead
Suspects killed several police officers with knives and bombs after speeding through a traffic checkpoint in a car in Kashgar's Tahtakoruk district
At least 18 people are dead after ethnic Uighurs attacked police with knives and bombs at a traffic checkpoint in China’s western Xinjiang region, Radio Free Asia reported on Wednesday.The attack occurred on Monday in a district of the southern city of Kashgar, where tensions between Muslim Uighurs that call the region home and the majority Han Chinese have led to bloodshed in recent years.Suspects killed several police officers with knives and bombs after speeding through a traffic checkpoint in a car in Kashgar’s Tahtakoruk district, US-based Radio Free Asia said, citing Turghun Memet, an officer at a nearby police station.Armed police responded to the attack and killed 15 suspects “designated as terrorists,” Radio Free Asia cited Memet as saying.The attack comes at the beginning of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, a sensitive time in Xinjiang after an uptick in attacks over the past three years in which hundreds have died, blamed by Beijing on Islamist militants.Repeated calls to the Xinjiang government news office were not answered. Such incidents are frequently reported in overseas media but not confirmed by the Chinese government until days later, if ever.Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say repressive government policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam and on Uighur culture, have provoked unrest, a claim that Beijing denies.
Katrina Kaif and Alia Bhatt during the Hindustan Times Most Stylish Awards...
Pakistani cricket team during a training session at PAC on the eve of match against New Zealand...
Folk artists perform to welcome Virbhadra Singh as he arrives to inaugurate the Holi celebrations...
A member of Akash Ganga sky diving team performs over M A Stadium in Jammu ...
An aerial view of the 2nd trial run of Kochi Metro Rail from Muttom yard to Edapally...
A boy collects scrap metal near a construction site in New Delhi...
Women's wing of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland-Isak Muivah (NSCN-IM) march ...
Australian batsman Usman Khawaja plays a shot during the ICC World T20 match...