2015-04~06
http://asia.nikkei.com/Politics-Economy/International-Relations/Beijing-secretly-favors-Washington-on-Afghan-peace

Groundbreaking shift in relations: Beijing secretly favors Washington on Afghan peace- Nikkei Asian Review
TOKYO - China, despite the growing tensions with the U.S. over its aggressive island-building in the South China Sea, appears to be cooperating with the U.S. in another foreign policy matter.
     The New York Times on May 25 reported on its website that secret bilateral talks had taken place between representatives of the Afghan government and the Taliban. China hosted the two-day meeting in late May in Urumqi, capital of the western region of the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, in hopes of promoting peace in the region.
     Furthermore, according to Reuters, Taliban representatives met with Afghan political figures in Qatar on May 3. The meeting was attended by representatives of several countries, including the U.S. and China.
     This is groundbreaking for Beijing, which had long stood back from efforts to stabilize Afghanistan.
     Its involvement could infuriate Islamic extremist groups, or perhaps trigger terrorist attacks in the Uighur region, which shares porous borders with troubled Central Asian states.
President Xi Jinping met in Beijing with President Barack Obama of the US, November 2014.
President Xi Jinping met in Beijing with President Barack Obama of the US, November 2014.
     China began to change its stance on Afghanistan in the fall, according to a source with an international organization. China's interests in Afghanistan used to be along the lines of investment. Peace-building and reconstruction were not on its agenda. However, after U.S. President Barack Obama visited Beijing in November, China dramatically changed its behavior.
     The move is also an indication of China's intention to make the U.S. owe China. Beijing's scenario may be that, if the country is able to contribute in the Afghan peace, Washington would appreciate the efforts, which could help minimizing the Washington's pressure on issues such as South China Sea disputes and human rights problems.
     Obama's latest vow on troop withdrawal from Afghanistan is to bring most of them home by the end of 2016. With less than two years to go to this deadline, the president is looking for some visible progress.
     According to sources from both sides, while Obama was in China, he was told Beijing was willing to help the U.S. on issues regarding Afghanistan. Obama reportedly appreciated the offer.
     Whether Beijing has an ulterior motive is unknown. But it is certainly concerned about the situation in Afghanistan. Were the U.S. to entirely pull its troops out of the region, Afghanistan could be thrown into further chaos.
     A power vacuum could worsen the country's civil war and put Central Asia at a higher risk of terrorist attacks.
     So cooperation with the U.S.'s efforts to bring stability to Afghanistan could benefit China. 
     Governments in Japan and Southeast Asia, however, are unsure of how this U.S.-China partnership might impact their own cooperation with the U.S. regarding that island-building.
     Washington is maintaining its hard-line stance on Beijing over its island development in the South China Sea. However, Beijing might be underestimating the Obama administration's willingness to seriously confront the issue.
     On May 16, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry visited Beijing and met with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and other representatives. Although the talks heated up over the South China Sea disputes, Wang, in a joint press conference with Kerry, referred to U.S.-China relations as the "most influential bilateral relations in the current world." He also stressed that both will "enhance communication, coordination and cooperation" on international issues including North Korea's nuclear, Afghan peace and the Ebola epidemic. 
     Wang's words sounded like a reminder, directed at the U.S., that it may be prudent for the U.S. not to get into a row with China, if the U.S. needs a help from China on solving matters important to the U.S., including North Korea and Afghan issues.
You have limited access. To enjoy full access, subscribe now.
Your subscription renewal has not been processed.Please update your payment information and enjoy full access.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week

Your subscription renewal could not be processed. Please update your payment information to continue enjoying the Nikkei Asian Review.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week


 Nikkei Asian Review is the only publication that brings you Insight about Asia, from the inside out.
 XXcontractNameXX has enabled you free full access to Nikkei Asian Review.
