2015-04~06
http://www.freepressjournal.in/chinese-president-xi-jinpings-bounty-for-pakistan/

Chinese president Xi Jinping’s bounty for Pakistan | Freepress Journal
The Chinese are opening their coffers to Pakistan as they have consistently done for decades. But it is not for nothing.
Their President, Xi Jinping, is scheduled to visit Islamabad on Monday on a two-day visit to sign deals for infrastructure and energy worth a whopping 45 billion dollars which would be used to build the Pakistan node of Beijing’s ambitious Maritime Silk Road. In turn, this would provide China another point of access to the Indian Ocean from the Gwadar port.
While this is of some concern to India in terms of the larger geo-strategic dimensions of the deal, what is of greater import is the deal for eight diesel electric submarines. India’s defence experts believe that her security interests could be gravely impacted if Pakistan turns the subs into platforms for second nuclear strike capability.
The speculation is that Pakistan may like to follow Israel’s example of equipping conventional submarines with nuclear-tipped missiles.
The Chinese are wary of annoying India beyond a point because of the entwining of business interests of the two countries in the Modi era when an element of mutuality of interests has taken center stage. But it can hardly be ruled out that Beijing will render all help to Pakistan to help out with Pakistan’s nuclear dimension on the sly.
There is also some movement on establishing a megaproject the two are calling the Pakistan-China Economic Corridor. The corridor seeks to link China’s restive and remote western region of Xinjiang with Pakistan’s deepwater Gwadar port on the Arabian Sea.
A spokesman for Pakistan’s government says the Xi Jinping visit will mark the transformation of relations from a global strategic relationship to a new type of economic relationship between the two countries. What has, however, been left unsaid is that the security side of the relationship is also expected to deepen, an aspect that India cannot ignore.
On Beijing’s side, authorities are deeply worried about unrest in Xinjiang, which is home to the country’s Uighur Muslim minority group, and has long sought Pakistan’s help in addressing the problem.

« Previous Article
'Furious 7' crosses $1Bn mark at International box office in just 17 days

Kamlendra Kanwar is a seasoned journalist with impeccable credentials as a political analyst and commentator.


 
 
 
 Dr. Sanjay Deshmukh, vice chancellor of Mumbai University, speaks of the many paradigm shifts that are now needed. Shraddha Kamdar… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 A couple of years ago, we had published an article that essentially reproducted an email sent to us by valued… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 The latest political crisis in Uttarakhand underlines the loosening grip of the Congress leadership on the party. Since power is… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 We all know the difficulties that surround any effort to improve relations between India and Pakistan. The problems are embedded… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 The PPF rate cut will cause less dismay if inflation is also kept low and stable. Ever since the financial… 

 Read more…  


Copyright © 2016 . All Rights Reserved. Maintained by Designwell Infotech