2015-04~06
http://www.listener.co.nz/commentary/bulletin-from-abroad/the-not-so-magic-dragon/

The not so magic dragon - New Zealand Listener
China is testing regional reactions so it can work out its next steps.
In 2002, I drove along the southern edge of the Taklamakan Desert in Xinjiang at the point where China shares a narrow border with Afghanistan. Beyond the Pamir Mountains, American soldiers were fighting the Taliban. Fearing that Taliban fighters might seek refuge in Xinjiang, China had closed the border, although the only visible military presence was a company of Chinese soldiers in green cotton uniforms and sandals planting telegraph poles across the stony desert.
China was also worried that America would expand its military influence in the region. However, as the US floundered in Afghanistan, won battles but lost the war in Iraq, equivocated over Syria, and demurred as Russia and Nato staggered into a proxy conflict over Ukraine, China concluded that the world’s greatest military power was losing the political will to engage in or arbitrate foreign conflict. In this deepening global power vacuum, China decided to test regional reactions to its territorial claims in the South China Sea.
China has not fought in a major war since Korean in the 1950s. With the absence of a modern navy of a scale to express its power in the region, turning submerged reefs into islands is more a political than a military statement, challenging the sovereign claims of the Philippines, Vietnam, Thailand and Malaysia and calling into question the US’s naval power in the region. China’s actions and the US’s responses are the first gestures in what could, but should not, become a cold war in Asia.
It’s a calculated move. The US is the unrivalled global naval power. But most outposts are in waters too shallow for American aircraft carriers, destroyers or submarines to operate, and China can rely on the economic dependence of Southeast Asian nations and the US on China to temper their reactions.
China and its neighbours are in the throes of an economic revolution, the success of which is crucial to the future of the global economy. Vast hydrocarbon reserves and abundant fishing resources lie under these waters. Half of China’s oil imports pass through the region, and it wants to ensure it protects these supply lines itself, rather than relying on the US Navy. China also wants to salve the wounds inflicted on it by successive foreign powers over the past 150 years.
Bellicose rhetoric and increased spy plane flights are likely to exacerbate existing tensions and deepen China’s sense of historical victimhood, making future compromises harder. If one does not wear a sabre, it cannot rattle inappropriately. With the subtle support of more moderate nations such as Malaysia and Singapore, the US could start a firm, measured discussion with China about how their navies might co-operate in guaranteeing continued free shipping. Despite the reluctance of China to enter into multilateral discussions and the political ineffectualness of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean), the presentation of a generous but balanced plan by one Southeast Asian nation on behalf of the others to share energy resources and fishing rights in itself may help reduce tensions.
It appears that China has yet to formulate a medium- or long-term regional strategy. China is testing regional reactions so it can work out what to do next.
Economic realities will continue to balance the degree of its strategic opportunism to some extent. The Chinese economy may not be faltering, but it is slowing and the country has committed to major economic initiatives in the region; it cannot afford to go much further than the establishment of these tiny island fortresses. The manner in which China is engaged over the next few years will shape how it projects its regional influence in the future.
New Zealander David Mahon is managing director and chief investment officer of Mahon China.
Subscribe to the Digital Edition of the NZ Listener to get instant access to the latest issue every week.