2015-04~06
http://www.menafn.com/1094196706/China-used-military-in-Xinjiang---19-Uighurs-jailed-for-religious-extremism

''China used military in Xinjiang'' 19 Uighurs jailed for religious extremism | MENAFN.COM
Killings But Kadeer told journalists in Tokyo the military had been called in and had carried out killings. 'Security officers searched local people's houses and police called the army' she said. 'Police and the army cooperated in killing people in that area' she said adding the military had used explosives. 'We watched some videos of the area where the incident happened and we cannot see any person living in that area. Just burning and collapsing ...houses' she said speaking through an English translator. She said China's state media was calling Uighurs 'terrorists' because they had knives which she said they used focutting vegetables. Kadeer who is in Japan on a week-long lecture tour did not provide reporters with any evidence of her claims. Her comments came as courts in the Aksu and Kashgar regions of Xinjiang both of which have majority Uighur populations sentenced nine people to between two and six years in prison for promoting 'ethnic hatred' and other crimes the state-run Legal Daily said on Thursday. One jailed for six years had downloaded material which preached 'holy war' the report said adding that the other eight men smashed electrical equipment under the influence of 'illegal religion...and religious extremism'. It added that regional authorities had detained two other people for promoting 'religious extremism' online. Xinjiang is home to around nine million Uighurs many of whom complain of religious and cultural repression by Chinese authorities accusations the government denies. The region is regularly hit by unrest. Officials and state media blame the unrest on 'terrorists' but some experts say the government has produced little evidence of an organised terrorist threat adding the violence stems more from long-standing local resentment. The region has been under strict security since July 2009 when bloody ethnic riots broke out in the capital Urumqi. Beijing says it has poured money into Xinjiang in a bid to raise living standards and boost the local economy. Kadeer claimed 'special' police in Xinjiang have the right to raid Uighur homes and 'they can kill easily without permission' from the government