2015-04~06
https://beijingtoday.com.cn/2015/06/smoky-street-barbecue-tradition-2/

Smoky Street Barbecue Tradition (Dining) | BEIJING TODAY
Beijing is a city that can’t help but make an impression on its visitors. While many might take away images of packed, enormous skyscrapers and rowdy clubs, food lovers will remember the smell of smoky street side barbecues.
The capital’s busy streets get much of their nighttime illumination from red neon signs that say “chuan’r.” Essentially a Chinese take on kabobs, the skewers features roasted meats like mutton, chicken wings or organs.
The popular grills arrived in China through the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and spread throughout the country, taking an especially strong hold in the north.
Grilling meat on skewers is a tradition almost as old as the discovery of fire. While the Pacific Rim has its own grilling traditions mostly focused on the cuisines of Japan and Hawaii, it’s the Middle East that was defined the kabob.
Since Xinjiang is close to the Middle East both culturally and geographically, the region’s cuisine exerts a heavy influence. But where many Middle Eastern traditions involve taking the meat off the skewer to stuff bread or serve in bowls, Xinjiang’s meats never leave their sticks until they are bound for your stomach.
Traditional skewers in Xinjiang were made of red willow, but today most are made of iron.
Whereas the Xinjiang tradition calls for mutton with cumin and spice, Beijing’s restaurants aren’t beholden to halal requirements. Most restaurants serve barbecued chicken wings, vegetables and even pork alongside their mutton.
A popular order at most chuan’r spots is the aptly named “Crazy Spicy Chicken Wings” – a seemingly volcanic creation favored by brave eaters that is almost as painful going in as it is coming out.
All chicken parts find a use on Beijing’s chuan’r, with hearts and livers being especially popular. If your palate is more delicate, go with the bacon-wrapped mushrooms.
Like other street foods, chuan’r is an important part of Beijing life. Many a topless Beijinger can be spotted – bottle of Yanjing Beer in hand – tearing through a mountain of chuan’r and boiled soybeans on a hot summer nights.
If you are ready to mingle with the locals, chuan’r places might be a good start.
Yen Wang is an astrology fan with her sun in Libra and moon in Sagittarius. She's super into adventures, new ideas and weird ideas. She hopes to maintain an open and objective outlook on life – even when she's too old to walk.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Currently you have JavaScript disabled. In order to post comments, please make sure JavaScript and Cookies are enabled, and reload the page. Click here for instructions on how to enable JavaScript in your browser.
Joe: The authorities in Beijing, and indeed all over China, claim...
Christopher Sharp: So they were able to sweep it under the rug until now. This...
Suzie Lee: I like WeChat's versatility, but it needs to focus on securi...
cf: how could I contact the artist to purchase her works?...
Tom: Yes - zhon-gwanimals - Chinese animals. Don't let the shiny...
Beijing Today is a newspaper and website dedicated to helping foreign nationals integrate into life in the Chinese capital. We cover popular news and features and affordable options for locally-oriented entertainment, dining and shopping.

 Copyright © 2008–2016 Beijing Youth Daily Group. All rights reserved.
 ©2008–2016北京青年报社（集团）。版权所有。京ICP备09056853号
 Use of Beijing Today's website is subject to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy of Beijing Today Media Center.
 ISSN 2095-9591 – 刊号CN11-0120

