2015-04~06
http://www.dawn.com/news/1181119/china-detains-11-for-smashing-halal-food-shop

China detains 11 for smashing halal food shop - World - DAWN.COM
BEIJING: Police in western China detained 11 people after a crowd of angry customers in early May smashed a halal shop suspected of mishandling food prepared according to Islamic custom, state media said.
A group of “law-breakers” in Xining, the capital of Qinghai province, broke into a store on May 1 and vandalised it after discovering that non-halal foods had been transported along with halal products, a violation of regulations.
An investigation by authorities revealed that suspicions that sausages had been sold at the store were not true, state-run Xining Television reported on Friday.
The owner made “sincere apologies” to the store's Muslim customers, the report said, adding that it was ordered to stop selling, transporting and producing halal products and received a fine.
It said the owner, surnamed Li, belonged to the Hui Muslim minority and that most of the store's staff were Muslim.
Read more: Uighur man jailed in China for six years
Food safety and quality remains a major concern in China after a series of high-profile scandals.
Wang Zuoan, the head of China's State Administration for Religious Affairs, said in an interview published on Sunday in the ruling Communist Party's Study Times, that China must “protect the legal interests of religious groups”.
China has struggled to tame unrest among some Muslims, particularly in its western Xinjiang region, home to ethnic Uighurs, many of whom chafe at the government's strict controls on religion.
Read more: Islamophobia in China and Pakistan’s vow of silence
How come Pakistan never raised issue of mistreatment with China ever?
why not purse a peaceful solution , like Boycott or law suit ?
by eating halal one becomes true Muslim. Rest of deeds dosent matter.
Why do we have to resort to breaking, killing and beheading when we have to register a protest? I have not read anywhere that my religion suggest that. I invite ullemas to shed light on that fo our guidance.
Put a halal label(1 cent cost) and charge 50% more, greed over rides.
Why break the shop? Just boycott it. In India, if Muslims enter a restaurant they ask if the restaurant serves halal food. If it does not, they politely move out and go to a place that does. Many Muslim customers demand to see a government certificate to verify if a place is "halal-worthy". Top global brands like KFC, Pizza Hut, Dominos and McDonalds keep halal certificates. In most place sin India, the food and health department demands that Halal certificates but be produced if a customer asks. These Xinjiang Muslims must learn some maturity from their Indian brothers.
"protect the legal interests of religious groups” - do they have any legal interests defined in China? It's not only Muslim but Christian are also suffering similar prejudice in China. This is not the way to curb terrorism or fundamentalists - rather it would work as catalyst on the contrary.
@Zak Because it's none of our business also China has never ever meddled in Pakistani internal issues.
Another topic for a new rally which will disturb whole working day !!
During my visit to china i was surprised to find that there is a halal restaurant on every street. Never went hungry.
Common place in China. The same low standards in China brought McDonald's share prices to a new low.
What a confusing news this is. Didnt get it at all
Good move by China but what about ban on fasting in Ramadan, wearing beard and burqa
@imran What part of China was that. It is big country!
@Zak China is Pakistan's best friend and sometimes mishaps happen, Although China did the right thing detaining those people. They should've filed a complain in proper and legal manner. Also its always good to know that it messes up our other neighbors. ;)
@imran : which part of China did you visit? I am in Beijing at this time. I have not seen a single Halal Reastaurant!!!
Things to come in Gwadar and other places in Pakistan in lieu of $46B.
Is is happening in China too !! But don't expect Pakistan to mind at all.
@ Imran which part of China did you visit? I am in Shanghai at this time. I have not seen a single Halal Reastaurant!!!

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
