2015-04~06
http://www.pajhwok.com/en/2015/04/17/chinese-president-push-stability-afghanistan

Chinese President to push for stability in Afghanistan | Pajhwok Afghan News
By executing development projects through its national programs, the Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development has been able to create more than 120 million labor days in the villages of Afghanistan in the past few years... For More...  
Pajhwok combines its expertise and experience in news reporting with a telecom firm and thus reach a wider audience in an 
effective way.
To subscribe: 
English News Update : Send 83 to 824
Dari News Update : Send 84 to 824
Pashto News Update : Send 85 to 824
Pajhwok is interested in your story suggestions. Please tell us your thoughts by clicking here.
KABUL (Pajhwok): Chinese President Xi Jinping is scheduled to arrive in Pakistan on April 20 on a two-day visit, Pakistan’s Foreign Office spokesperson told a regular weekly media briefing.
“…Chinese president will attend a joint session of parliament and important agreements in various fields will be signed during the visit,” Tasneem Aslam said.
Media reports that Xi is likely to raise fears that Muslim separatists from Xinjiang are linking up with Pakistani militants, and he could also push for closer efforts for a more stable Afghanistan.
“One of China’s top priorities on this trip will be to discuss Xinjiang,” said a Western diplomat in Beijing. “China is very worried about the security situation there.”
Chinese President Xi Jinping will launch energy and infrastructure projects worth $46 billion on a visit to Pakistan as China cements links with its old ally and generates opportunities for firms hit by slack growth at home.
He is expected to sign a deal to sell Pakistan eight Chinese submarines. The deal, worth between $4 billion and $5 billion, according to media reports, may be among those signed on the trip.
Pakistan and China often boast of being “iron brothers” and two-way trade grew to $10 billion last year from $4 billion in 2007, Pakistani data shows.
Download “Pajhwok” mobile App, on your smartphone to read and access latest news, features, interviews, videos and photos about Afghanistan.
About Us  |  Contact  |  Subscribe  |  Terms of Use  |  Google+