2015-04~06
http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/worldviews/wp/2015/05/08/why-china-is-removing-crosses-from-hundreds-of-churches/

Why China is removing crosses from hundreds of churches - The Washington Post
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
A draft of official regulations relating to religious structures in the eastern Chinese province of Zhejiang was publicly released this week, offering a glimpse into the means by which local authorities seek to curb religious expression.
According to the Associated Press, since early 2014, officials in Zhejiang have toppled crosses from some 400 churches deemed of be in violation of building codes. On some occasions, the actions have sparked altercations with local congregations.
In painstaking detail, the 36-page directive sets out strict guidelines for where and how churches in Zhejiang can display crosses. They must be placed on the facades of buildings, not above them. They must be of a color that blends into the building, not one that stands out. And they must be small: no more than one-tenth the height of the building’s facade.
The rules put new legal force behind a continuing campaign in Zhejiang to remove crosses from the tops of churches, as the government works to hide the most visible sign of Christianity’s explosive growth in the province. Wenzhou, a coastal city in Zhejiang with more than nine million people, is often referred to as China’s Jerusalem because of its heavily Christian population and big churches.
Estimates regarding its Christian population vary between 50 to 100 million people. The prevalence of a large Catholic community has spurred Pope Francis to make overtures to Beijing.
As my colleague William Wan reported a few years ago, long-ingrained fears of foreign infiltration and imperialist plots underlie China's official wariness of religion. Christianity also poses an obvious challenge to a nominally atheist, authoritarian leadership that has a hard time accommodating a plurality of belief systems.
"To continue to forcefully remove and ban the cross on the rooftop of the church buildings demonstrates the Chinese regime’s determination to contain the rapid growth of Christianity in China," says Bob Fu of China Aid, a U.S. based Christian rights group.
In recent months, my colleague Simon Denyer has been following what some have characterized as Beijing's war on Islam. Out of supposed concern over extremist radicalization and counter-terrorism, Chinese authorities in the restive far western region of Xinjiang have clamped down on the cultural practices of the Uighurs, a Turkic Muslim minority.
Local authorities compelled Muslim shopkeepers to sell alcohol, even though it violates their own traditions. In one instance, a Muslim man was jailed for six years for refusing to shave off his beard.
We will update you when news breaks about the virus.
Success! Check your inbox for details. You might also like:
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses!
Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games!
Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve.