2015-04~06
http://hosted2.ap.org/ILJAC/0160a44c43294ffdbb8584b69f9d7736/Article_2015-05-15-AS--China-Rights%20Lawyer/id-752a0f69d2ad4625abe144e9bd080973

Associated Press
HAVANA (AP) — Brushing off decades of distrust, President Barack Obama and Cuban President Raul Castro shook hands Monday in Havana's Palace of the Revolution, a remarkable moment for two countries working to put the bitterness of their Cold War-era enmity behind them.
WASHINGTON (AP) — Donald Trump huddled with Republican officials Monday on Capitol Hill, a closed-door session designed to help persuade a skeptical GOP establishment to embrace his presidential bid. Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton warned a leading pro-Israel organization that Trump was dangerously unqualified to preside over international conflicts.
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) — Utah voters on Tuesday will navigate a new presidential caucus system that comes months earlier than last time and opens the Republican race to online voting with computers, smartphones or tablets.
BRUSSELS (AP) — Authorities do not know the "exact path" taken by Salah Abdeslam, a key suspect in the Paris attacks who had crisscrossed Europe ahead of the Nov. 13 bloodbath then fled the scene, a Belgian federal prosecutor said Monday.
ATHENS, Greece (AP) — The Latest on Europe's migration crisis (all times local):
BOCA RATON, Fla. (AP) — The Rooney Rule that has helped diversify front office and coaching jobs in the NFL has been such a success that the league has expanded it to include interviewing women for all executive positions at the league office.
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. (AP) — The former tournament director at Indian Wells who now runs the WTA Tour calls his successor's critical comments about women's tennis players "disappointing and alarming."
Major league teams steeply increased the money spent on young players last year, when several Cuban prospects got big-money deals. Still, the overall percentage of revenue devoted to players has remained relatively stable for a decade.
Bryce Harper studied the video of the lanky left-hander, watching him throw for the very first time.
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) — Atlantic Coast Conference teams aren't taking anyone lightly in the NCAA Tournament because of their status as Power 5 schools.