2015-04~06
http://www.brecorder.com/top-news/108-pakistan-top-news/238741-pak-china-strategic-partnership-to-go-beyond-usual-limits.html

Pak, China strategic partnership to go beyond usual limits
ISLAMABAD: Pakistan and China are enjoying strategic partnership that would continue to grow with time, especially in the wake of huge investment in various sectors expected to pour in after the visit of Chinese president next week.
China and Pakistan's strategic partnership has transcended the changes of time and domestic politics and served as an example of very strong state-to-state relations.
China is making sincere efforts for improvement of infrastructure in Pakistan through investing in different areas that would help improve the life of the people. It has also started real investment on mega projects which are important for the bilaterial ties and drastic improvement of the socio-economic status of the people of Pakistan.
In the last couple of years, Pakistan had consolidated its strategic partnership with China and as time-tested and all-weather relationship with China has been transformed into a strong strategic partnership, with focus on trade, investment, energy infrastructure and connectivity and counter-terrorism cooperation.
China, which already helped in the construction of Karakoram Highway is also working to upgrade it as part of a proposed economic corridor between the two countries.
China had already took control of Pakistan's Gwadar port, that had provided it access to the Arabian Sea and Strait of Hormuz, a gateway for a third of the world's traded oil.
Pakistan plans to establish industrial parks and economic zones along the proposed Kashgar-Gwadar China-Pakistan Economic Corridor that will also be helpful in bringing revolution in the region to increase the status of China in the area.
The new trade corridor will provide Chinese traders a link to deliver their goods to the international markets through the Gwadar Port. The economic corridor is being developed as part of a strategic partnership between the governments of China and Pakistan.
The proposed sites of freight terminals and industrial parks included Sust, Gilgit, Abbotabad, Lorala, Kohlu, D.G. Khan, Bhakkar, Rajanpur, Kashmore, Jaccobabad, Khuzdar, Basima, Punjgur, Turbat and Gwadar.
Like the previous Pakistani leaders, Prime Minister Muhammad Nawaz Sharif is also giving top priority to improve ties with China and engaging leading Chinese companies for the improvement of various sectors in Pakistan.
Nawaz Sharif who conducted his first visit to China after assuming office of the Prime Minister and established a China Cell at the Prime Minister Secretariat to follow up and expedite the projects being signed with China.
During the latest visit of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif to China, the two countries signed different agreements to strengthen economic and diplomatic ties.
The two countries had also agreed to enhance bilateral cooperation in the fields of maritime security, search & rescue and disaster relief at sea, combating piracy, maritime scientific research and environmental protection that will further cement the bilateral ties in the context of regional strategic ties.
Nawaz has urged Chinese investors to invest in Pakistan, particularly in the energy sector to resolve energy crisis.
Chinese consider Pakistan as a safe haven for Chinese investment, therefore, China-Pakistan's trade and economic cooperation has seen good progress in past many years.
Pakistan and China are also working to increase their bilateral trade to $20 billion from the present figure of $12 billion within next couple of years. These projects will increase the strategic value of China in the region and allow China to play even more effective role in its development and prosperity. The most important linkage will be linking Pakistan's Gwadar Port on the Arabian Sea with Kashghar in Xinjiang province in Northwest of China.
Over the years, China and Pakistan have insisted on mutual respects and trust for each other in exchanges and cooperation and provided timely help and valuable assistance to each other at critical moments, which has left many touching stories.
China has always supported Pakistan's efforts to safeguard her independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity with practical, sincere and selfless actions to help Pakistan steer out crisis situations.
Relying upon good and strong relations with Pakistan, China is opening up its Western part for economic progress and the province of Xinjiang would be a critical link of cooperation with Pakistan.
Pakistan-China friendship at all levels, including government to government, people to people, youth to youth, politicians to politicians are very strong and exemplary.
Pak-China friendship is unique and state-to-state relations are very strong and these could be used for ensuring everlasting peace in the region.
Besides Pakistan's support to China's core interests of Tibet and Taiwan remains unwavering, mutual collaboration in regional forums like SCO, CICA and Heart of Asia has stepped up in these recent years.
China is poised to offer investments and loans to the tune of $ 35 billion for energy and other infrastructure projects over the next 8-10 years.