2015-04~06
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2015/05/25/writing-china-rian-thum-the-sacred-routes-of-uyghur-history/

Writing China: Rian Thum, ‘The Sacred Routes of Uyghur History’ - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
China’s far northwestern region of Xinjiang is often understood in contrast to the country as a whole. It is home to a large, mainly Muslim ethnic minority, the Uighurs (also sometimes spelled Uyghur). It is rich in natural resources. And it is increasingly troubled by terrorism and other violent confrontations between Uighurs and China’s ethnic Han majority as well as the Chinese state.
Because Xinjiang is so often defined by security issues and geopolitics, local perspectives on the region and its history can be hard for outsiders to find. In his recent book The Sacred Routes of Uyghur History, Professor Rian Thum describes how the Uighurs themselves have traditionally explored their history over the centuries: by visiting the shrines where local Islamic saints are buried.
He discusses the region through the lens of “Altishahr,” or “six cities,” a term still in use today referring to the oasis towns ringing the Taklimakan Desert that are the traditional center of Uighur culture.
The Journal spoke with Professor Thum by phone from his home in New Orleans, where he teaches at Loyola University. Edited excerpts:
What are the elements of the Altishari, or Uighur, understanding of history? What makes it different from other historical traditions?
A hundred years ago, history in Altishahr was learned in a sacred environment, at the tombs of local Islamic saints. This lends a very different character to history in the sense that you’re learning as part of a religious ritual, but you’re also learning it at the site of those actions. There was no classroom in which you would learn the history of your home territory. Instead, you would go to the places where historically significant things happened, namely the deaths of important Islamic figures, and at those sites you would have the history read out to you.
Because history tends to be learned at the tombs of these Islamic saints, history becomes the story of great individuals. And that carries on even in the present, when a lot of the religious activity at holy sites has actually been shut down.
A lot was lost primarily through Communist policies implemented after the advent of the People’s Republic of China in 1949. Prominent in that category are the closure of shrines and the stoppage of local pilgrimages, which is a process that seems to have been pretty complete during the Cultural Revolution from 1966 to 1976, opened back up in the 1980s, and is now returning to an almost complete closure of pilgrimage networks.
Another element that’s really gone is the manuscript tradition. The written version of all these stories took the form of handwritten books. Printing did not take off in Altishahr until the arrival of the People’s Republic of China. Those manuscripts that preserve these tales in physical form were largely collected, perhaps confiscated—we don’t really know what happened to them—by the Chinese government, probably in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s. What used to be a form that was really widely available is now almost completely unavailable.
While breaking down this tradition, Chinese authorities have in other ways appropriated it. Could you describe this process?
In most cases, for the major shrines in these cities, they’ve chosen to project their own story onto these sites. One of the exciting things about performing history at the place where the events happened is it lends an incredible authority to the story that you’re telling: the pilgrim can see that the place really exists, and can touch the sand on which the hero died. There’s a certain amount of authority that accrues to the people who are the caretakers of those places.
The Chinese state has actually taken over the role of the shaykh of the shrine—the shaykh is the name for the religious figure who is the caretaker of the shrine. Many smaller shrines are still run by Uighur shaykhs, who often hold their positions informally. But the position has been eliminated at major urban shrines, where the state has taken over this role and with it adopted the authority of  the shaykh. And what they do with it is to project stories of ethnic unity, “minzu tuanjie,” a favorite element of PRC propaganda and a favorite goal of PRC development in the region.
Afaq Khojah was the founder of a famously rebellious line of Sufi religious and political leaders who led quite a few significant rebellions against Chinese rule, and he’s been replaced now at his shrine in the Silk Road oasis of Kashgar. Afaq himself was a Sufi proselytizer who became the ruler of Altishahr in the late seventeenth century, before the arrival of China-based rule.
While his presence is acknowledged, the main story now associated by the state with that shrine for tourists is the story of Xiang Fei, the so-called fragrant concubine, who was captured in the Qing conquest of the area and made a concubine of the emperor. If you look at the signage of that site, it informs you that this is a great example of the unity between the Uighurs and the other constituent elements of China.
You spent a lot of time visiting these shrines. How did you find out about them?
There’s a wonderful book by a Uighur scholar that lists a large number of the shrines. That was an important starting point for me, as were the memoirs of early European explorers who travelled throughout the region.
A very important one for me was the memoir and the archaeological publications of a Hungarian-British scholar named Aurel Stein, who traveled through the area in the first decade of the 20th century. His book was really useful because it describes shrines which have now either disappeared or are not written about in official sources. In one case I was able to use one of his maps from the early 20th century and line it up with a more recent map to figure out where a water source was at which I knew the shrine was located. This led me to the shrine, which until this point had been thought to be gone.
Another way I found shrines was simply to join pilgrims. Although major pilgrimage festivals have been interrupted, people still informally string together visits to multiple small shrines and sometimes even surreptitiously visit closed sites by way of alternate desert routes. Pilgrims I met at shrines were usually excited to find an outsider interested in their sacred places, and often invited me to join them on their motorcycles or motor-tricycles for day-long circuits of shrines in a region, including very small sites that don’t make their way into written sources.
Chinese officials often talk about what traditional Uighur Islam is, but they tend not to refer to this shrine-manuscript tradition. Why?
I think these Chinese officials are trying to fight what they see as outside influence. And there is a lot of outside influence on how Uighurs are practicing Islam. They want to create a wall around the region and prevent, in particular, traditions from the Arab world from coming in.
The irony is, they don’t seem to really know what the traditional Uighur form of Islam looks like. And so they end up actually attacking a lot of the same “traditional” Islam that they say they’re trying to promote. Much of the state-led religious program in Xinjiang has actually been to close down pilgrimage festivals at these various shrines at the same time that they’re saying, “Let’s preserve the original Uighur approach to Islam.”
– Edited from an interview with Ned Levin. Follow him on Twitter @nedlevin.
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

That's what they have in common with the Chinese people. One tragic story after another. In China they call it their "Dynasties".
Yes, very sad. Uyghurs are natural born losers, their stories are one tragic story after another.
Yes, very sad. Uyghurs are natural born losers, their stories are one tragic story after another.
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
