2015-04~06
http://www.tribune.net.ph/commentary/bride-and-prejudice-rare-ethnic-marriages-reflect-china-tensions

The Daily Tribune News - Bride and prejudice: Rare ethnic marriages reflect China tensions
Hotan, China — It was not until late on her wedding day that Aygul told her parents she was even in a relationship. And they were furious.A year later, her Uighur father was still so angry she had chosen a Han husband he beat her up in a Beijing train station, stamping on her throat as he hurled insults.“They hounded me and demanded I choose: My mother and father or my husband,” said the 26-year-old website editor. “They told me I had to leave him.”Against a backdrop of prejudice and violence, inter-ethnic marriages between Uighurs, a mostly Muslim minority who speak a Turkic language, and China’s ethnic majority Han are extremely rare.Uighurs in their home region of Xinjiang have long chafed under Beijing’s yoke and say they face restrictions on religion, language and culture, with some yearning for independence.China counters it has brought development and raised living standards, blaming sporadic but intensifying violence that killed more than 200 last year on Islamist separatists with overseas connections. Official media have labored to showcase Han-Uighur marriages — with couples singing the praises of the government and Communist Party — as a symbol of “ethnic unity.”The phrase is common on propaganda posters throughout Xinjiang, but such messages have to contend with centuries of division.“Since I was 12, my mother always told me: ‘Concentrate on your studies and don’t find a Han boyfriend’,” said Aygul. “But I was educated in a Chinese-language school and most of my classmates and friends were Han.”Her husband Xiaohe, a 30-year-old translator, had already given up pork, prohibited by Islam, and tried to make a good impression on her parents with a three-page handwritten letter in Uighur, without success. Ming, a Han married to Ahman, a Uighur woman from the oil town of Karamay, got a similar reaction the first time he spoke to her parents.“Her father told me: ‘If you are going to marry my daughter, then I’ll disown her,’” he said.His wife — who was attacked by a group of Uighur classmates as a teenager for having a previous Han boyfriend — added: “My parents see my marriage to a Han as a loss of face.”Uighur-Han marriages are largely confined to wealthier, more educated Uighurs, who often attend Mandarin-language schools and go to university outside Xinjiang, or the very poor, mainly from tight-knit farming communities where Han residents speak Uighur and share customs.Both sides often cite cultural or religious differences for the divide, but Newcastle University professor Joanne Smith Finley, a Uighur culture expert, said the true but unspoken issue is politics. “The number one reason for the taboo on inter-ethnic courtship and intermarriage is inter-ethnic conflict,” she said, adding that Uighur women married to Han men face the harshest ostracism due to the patriarchal nature of Islamic societies.“A Han Chinese man taking a Uighur woman as his wife is seen as symbolic invasion,” she explained.“Just as China is taking the oil, natural gas, gold and jade, and has reduced the people to a marginalized, impoverished and disenfranchised section of society in Xinjiang, when a Chinese man takes a Uighur wife, Uighurs view that as the physical embodiment of what China the state is doing to the Uighur homeland.”Uighurs had the lowest intermarriage rate of China’s 56 officially recognized ethnic groups at 1 percent, according to Xinjiang Academy of Social Sciences researcher Li Xiaoxia, who analyzed 2000 census data. That fell to 0.6 percent for Uighur-Han unions.“There is huge difference between Uighurs and Han in terms of culture and language,” she said, adding that more recent data showed little change. “People are prone to look for relationships with someone with the same ethnicity.”Yet the Hui, who like Uighurs are Muslim, have an intermarriage rate about 13 times higher — although they share a language and many more live in China’s heartland cities.The reaction of Ming’s parents was typical of how many Han view Uighurs, informed by stereotypes and casual racism. “My parents thought all Uighurs were pickpockets or scam artists selling so-called ethnic food for inflated prices,” said the 28-year-old, a manager at a state-owned company.Xiaohe’s parents, from the northern province of Hebei, were more positive. “At first my parents thought it was strange, but then they found out she graduated from Peking University” — an elite school often called the Harvard of China — he said. “They said: ‘Your grades were never that good and your wife is so smart, this is great.’”The couples who spoke to AFP requested anonymity due to the sensitivity of the issue. Ahman, Ming, Aygul and Xiaohe are members of a mixed couples’ chat group where they swap stories, tips and support. Their unions have only survived because they live in Beijing, they say.“It would be impossible for us to be married and live in Xinjiang,” said Xiaohe. “The social pressures are just too intense.”
Two electrodes connected to the capacitor through a switch are placed on the chest.The choroid is continuous with the pigment containing iris and the ciliary body on the anterior surface of the eye.treatmentDisclaimer We supply only basic details about medications which usually doesnt include almost all directions feasible medication integrations or even safeguards. candian pharmacy lasix pills hemoglobin APalpate the bladder and insert a Foley catheter.but it shifted away from the previous view of disease as some kind of punishment from the gods. levitra without a script Use the nasogastric tube to empty the stomach to prevent aspiration.Hepatitis B vaccine if not already antibodypositive See ChapterosteoporosisVarious methods of administering drugs are Oral Administration.The tick is hosted by whitefooted mice immature ticks whitetailed deer mature ticks and brief and unfortunate encounters with humans.after head injury.ORAL CAVITY SALIVARY GLANDS Saliva PHARYNX ESOPHAGUS LIVER Bile STOMACH PANCREAS Enzymes GALLBLADDER Bile DUODENUM JEJUNUM Small intestine ILEUM CECUM ASCENDING COLON TRANSVERSE COLON Large intestine DESCENDING COLON SIGMOID COLON RECTUM ANUS Feces leave the body FIGURE Pathway of food through the gastrointestinal tract.Also reviewed by David Zieve MD MHA Medical Director A. buy cialis c80 For a confidential discussion on this Market Access Manager position or any other roles within Market Access or HEOR please contact Henry Brodie of NonStop This is a fantastic opportunity to be part of a pioneering company offering excellent benefits including generous salaries life assurance private medical and holiday entitlement to name a few.Radiation exposure c.Specificity is low d dimer results may also be elevated in MI CHF pneumo nia and the postoperative state. antabuse sales canadian Davidovits P.Signals transmitted from the hypothalamus control secretions by the pituitary gland.These drugs are designed to block the function of growth factors their receptors and abnormal or overactive signaling pathways in tumor cells.CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM COMBINING FORM MEANING TERMINOLOGY MEANING athero yellowish plaque fatty substance Greek athere means porridge atrio atrium upper heart chamber atheroma The sufx oma means mass or collection.Rarely pregnant women may develop disseminated HSV which can be fatal to the mother and fetus.. viagra buy in canada It may be used To slow down or stop the growth of tumors that are hard to remove with surgery To treat patients who are unable to have surgery such as the elderly or people who are very sick Removing an acoustic neuroma can damage nerves causing loss of hearing or weakness in the face muscles.Diagnosis and management of adult onset Stills disease.Figure illustrates mammography.
http://comprarcialisgenericomadrid.com/ cialis 
http://achetercialisgeneriquefrance.net/ cialis 
http://buypropeciagenericonline1mg.net/ cost propecia 
http://orderkamagraonlineusa.net/ buy kamagra onlnie

 Make sure you enter the (*) required information where indicated.Basic HTML code is allowed.
Sao Paulo, Brazil — Rolling up the sleeves of their gowns, B…
Considering the human person as the foundation and purpose o…
Paris, France — A potentially critical conflict has gone lar…
Nigeria — Under a starless night sky in Yankari Game Reserve…
Brebes, Indonesia — In a small faith healing center in rural…
BANGKOK — Preferring to risk death than face deportation, Do…
Twas midway through President Aquino’s term when a coffee sh…