2015-04~06
http://www.dawn.com/news/1188973/is-the-british-school-wrong-in-discouraging-students-from-fasting

Is the British school wrong in discouraging students from fasting? - Blogs - DAWN.COM
A primary school in East London has sent out letters to their Muslim pupils’ parents, informing them that their children would not be allowed to fast on school grounds. Although it is tempting to write this one off as Islamophobia, it’s prudent to resist hasty judgement.
The letter sent out by Barclay Primary School begins with the administration’s acknowledgement of the enormous significance of the holy month for Muslim families, and offers to celebrate Ramazan with them by discussing Islamic customs in assembly and classes.
Also read: London school trust bans Muslim students from fasting in Ramazan
Contentiously, the letter informs parents of the school’s decision to ban the fasting for children during school time. According to the administration, this decision takes into consideration the June/July heatwave, long fasting hours in the UK, and the fact that the previous year’s fasting left several Muslim pupils feeling weak and ill, or even fainting during school hours.
Children tend to imitate their adult family members who fast in the month of Ramazan, especially when encouraged to do so and also when they are informed of the virtuousness of the ritual. However, their growing bodies may be biologically ill-equipped to effectively handle prolonged periods of sustenance deprivation.
How many of us recollect our own school days during Ramazan, when we miserably begged the teacher to give us a “free period” as we couldn’t focus on the lessons because of the fast? Are Barclay Primary’s fears that hungry and thirsty children would be “unable to fully access the school curriculum” unfounded?
Note that the knowledge that fasting is not compulsory for children is not lost on the school administration.
“We have sought guidance and are reliably informed that in Islamic Law, children are not required to fast during Ramazan, only being required to do so when they become adults," the letter from the school said.
Protesting parents may argue that their children have the right to choose to fast on school grounds if they want to. This argument is ignorant of the fact that a minor’s consent does not bear the value of an adult’s.
While it would be wholly inappropriate of a college to ban its adult students from fasting, a primary school can make certain decisions on behalf of the child’s welfare during school hours. And that includes doing what it takes to keep pupils from fainting in the playground, or being inattentive in the classroom.
Also read: China pushes Uighurs to give up fasting in Ramazan
For fear of being deemed Islamophobic, the school further stated that parents especially adamant on making their children fast should have a meeting with the Head of School, so they may discuss special arrangements for their children’s safety. In other words, the “ban” is merely a strong recommendation, and will not be strictly enforced anyway.
I don’t claim to be an authority on religious matters. As a doctor, I claim to have some understanding of the inner mechanisms of the human body, whose physiological engine doesn’t run on willpower alone; it runs on sugar and water.
This factoid being especially true for children who naturally have an overactive metabolism, one can understand why the Muslim world almost unanimously agrees that fasting isn’t mandatory for our little ones.
I hope these families, for their children’s sake, make healthy use of that concession.
Faraz Talat is a doctor from Rawalpindi who writes mostly about science and prevalent social issues.
The views expressed by this writer and commenters below do not necessarily reflect the views and policies of the Dawn Media Group.
This is a good move by the school. The time for Sehri in London is 02:40 am with Iftar at 09:30 pm. I live in London and observe all my fasts however I would not encourage my children to fast such long hours until they are of the age where it is farz upon them. Ramadhan is not meant to be harmful to people.
Thanks for writing a logical and factual piece about this controversy. Unfortunately most religious leaders and some part of our media thrive by creating hype. Islam is a religion of peace and compassion.
Right approach. students at this level can still utilize friday saturday fasting.
I don't even remember the age when I started fasting. Must be 5 or 6. Although fasting is farz on Adults only but the spirit of fasting and to practice religion is instilled from a very young age. Even if it is a 'chirri roza' kids around the world observe fast even in places like ME and Pakistan where temperature goes sky high coupled with the load shedding. In UK its comparatively easier to fast, weather wise. No harm in observing. Not a pressurised argument, just another recommendation.
As a doctor living in UK, I know the fasts are long. I also know as a Muslim that children should not be fasting.
The school should have taken the sensitivity of the issues under consideration. Muslims already feel threatened with the CTS bill and rise in Islamophobia. The admininstration should have invited the parents (the real stake holders) to come forward and discuss the situation and explain their worries to the parents and get them on board. The parents could have given some suggestions too such as mock fasts of 4 hours or allowing the older children a quiet room during lunch breaks. Instead the school sent out a letter making a blanket ban.
And by the way...after the furore, they created a statement on the website asking parents to discuss with them in case their children fasted to create a "safe" environment.
come to Finland or Norway, Fasting time is about 22 hours..
What about None Muslims who are take Half Day working hours like us Muslims in GCC Countries during RAMDAN????
Even for working adults it is not very easy to last almost 19+ hours of fasting. How could one break his fast at 10, sleep at 12, wake up at 2 for Sehri, sleep at 3 again, and then wake up again at 5 to get ready for work and still stay healthy. Remember UK is not an Islamic state where Muslims get holidays or very relaxed working hours so that they could stay awake until Sehri and sleep through the day.
Was there any headline stating Is the Chinese authority wrong in discouraging uighur's from fasting?
Yes it is true that fasting is only obligatory for adults, but islam calls adult someone who reaches puberty
The school is 100% correct in this respect, the Health & Safety of the children and there welfare is there main concern, Risk Assessments will be in place regarding this.
Mullahs and imamas will not like this as it will dilute their importance and so will make efforts to keep the controversy boiling.
That's a logical gesture from the school as in most Muslim countries, school hours are cut short and work load is halved during Ramadan...since the same won't be happening at this school, its actually rather humane that they are strongly suggesting a reprieval from fasting for the kids.
Dr FT- great explanation for the believers "physiological processes set by the divine require water & energy to function optimally" this becomes all the more demanding in the growing-up children. People in ME countries & the holy men/beings all over practically sleep by day & pray by night, not possible in UK or further north, it will be denial of nature if any one says that their performance is not compromised
The author is correct however what he probably does not appreciate is that there seems to be a hidden agenda in this locality. The council is 'testing' the extremisim agenda of the government and looking for pupil/parent reaction. Only a few weeks ago a nearby school asked pupils aged 9/10 whether it was ok to marry someone of a different race/religion. Michael Gove has moved on but the government policy continues..
@Mast 
This is the
This is the right approach the school Or govt. in the UK has done. I do not understand that how a working adult can fast for so long hours, that matter also needs attention. We know the hard work being performed in varioue work places, and some of repetitive standing and moving nature, needs a lot of energy to sustain. I don`t think that a working adult can fast and work simultaneously?
Is it practical to fast for 22 hours, have iftar, say Maghrib prayer, Isha and Trawees? What do the ulema say?
What are Oslo, or Stockholm, Sehri and Iftar times this year? I'm just curious.
Without going into the merits or demerits of the argument provided by the school, why are they imposing or enforcing this? There should be some freedom in this regard. The schools should have only advised the parents. They had every right to give suggestions. However, the decision to fast or to not fast should have lied with the parents and their children. Even if the logic provided by the school is correct, there should be religious freedom in this regard.
China just banned fasting by all Govt. officials and grown up students (not just small kids) in their Xinjiang province. Why is Pakistan and other muslim countries not protesting this? This is a violation of basic religious rights.
Steak on brother Talat. Deeds speak louder than rituals. One does not get a one-way ticket to heaven by mimicking rituals of fasting, and forcing the innocent souls (children) to follow what they think is right and not what is right for their children.
Even I as an adult living in Europe have had problems fasting 20 - 21 hours. Since one is required to do a full workday of at least 8 years, concentrate and deliver, and not really lounge through, sleep or do half day work common in Pakistan or most Islamic countries, it really becomes a challenge to deliver and keep the balance.
In the case of children it is also debilitating and not healthy to remain without food and water for such prolonged hours - 19/20 hours of fasting.
Muslims should try to be understandable of the situation and try to work out the alternatives rather than take something as purely Islamophobic.
this is very good decision by school . student growing in their age and in this age they need lot of balance diet for the devolepment of body . As a teen they feel hunger even after short time finishing their meal so it is not justfied from religious angel to froce the fast. How ever as a mature adult if health allow then he can fast. even health wise a 
day in week fasting on only fruit of fruit juice is good for cleaning body system.
as a hindu from my personal experince i thnik that fast should be wilingly not by forcing on some one. as one day i copy my fellow family member and goes for fast for one day and on the evening forced to eat as i cannnot tolrate hunger.
fasting is for adults not for kids but if kids wants to fast they are allowed to practice.meaning if kids will fast they will take day off from school lol , bad schooling lol
@Mast I lived in the GCC for 15 years and it is quite rare for the Arab children to fast at that young age. It would be incredibly risky and Ramadan is not meant to make us take chances with our health to that degree.
@Ahtesham what about them? They are doing so at the instructions of their employer. It's standard practice to close offices and businesses earlier during Ramadan in the GCC.
I am Londoner and been here 56 years 
I would not encourage my little grandchildren to fast though we elders have been fasting all these years.
Shame on these Mullahs that criticise while creating rift by announcing two or even three Eids. They even divide close family and friends though they live in different part of the same city..
@naghman You summed it up nicely! All these people who would tell you otherwise are most likely very emotional about the religion and don't want to accept the fact that fasting absolutely diminishes your capacity to perform.
@Sher kh Why on earth you want small children to behave like adults. It does not make sense to make them keep fast on any day.
China has pretty much banned fasting for adults too, but no murmur of criticism from Pakistan seems like double standards to me.
Answer is NO. Religion shall be taken back to one's house. It is not a commodity for display.
Excellent article. I am not a religious person ,but still believe that discussions like this on religious dogmas are helpful. I hope believers in other religions will also do this.
Also why there is so little discussion about the Chinese ban on Ramazan fasting in the Uigur homeland in the Pakistani media?
No one should be fasting before 18. Also a child should not be forced to fast. Islam is a religion of choice. Any religious ritual should be adopted only after a person is convinced by his own heart. I am absolutely not saying that parents should not encourage their children to perform Islamic practices. However, they should not be forced upon.
We always look for 'hidden agenda' and 'conspiracy'. Thanks for pointing out.
"Adult" what is the age when one reaches adulthood? If a "child" wants to keep the fast he/she can and also if at anytime they find it difficult to keep up with it, they can break it. No compulsion.
So who is talking about China stopping all adults Muslim Majority from Fasting??
The Day/Night skew increases as we move away from the equator. London is quite far from the equator, Norway further yet.
We must understand intentions behind the issue, I as a Muslim believe that by no means my religion is hurted. It is not mandatory for a younger children to keep fast for 20 hours
 I wish primary schools in our belt also get serious.
If the same thing would have been done to Non Muslims in Pakistan , the same so called liberals will be furious ...
Stopping someone to practice a 100% personal and religious ritual is OK in UK for the liberals in Pakistan ... When Pakistan stops some Non Muslim to do anything , they will create a hue and cry...
i am impress with this height of double standard !
Minors should not be encouraged to observe fast. It would not help in concentration towards studies in schools.
@Abdul Samad Chaudhry those who want to celebrate eid on different days it is their freedom of choice and opinions. Shame on people who make it a point to fight and criticise. After all different countries of the Muslim world celebrate on different days.
This is a first school so the request is quite reasonable, the children range from 5 to 11. It is suggested that if children want to Fast they can do a little at the weekend. The Fasting hours are long here in Northern Europe. I think common sense is the Order of the day.
the question is why now--what is so special in Ramazan this year which has not been there the year before and before and for that matter as people say 56 years and so on.
I would request the learned writer to enlighten the public on that.
I wonder about the comments/Responses if the same Guideline was published in India..!!!!
@Ahtesham : Who told you that non muslims also have half day leave during Ramadan in GCC?
Children shouldn't fast.Good move by London schools.Indian schools which have large proportion of muslim students should follow this.
We should be thankful that Britain, a Christian or secular country, allows us the adult Muslims living there to practice our religion freely although they can ban any religion they like in their own country. We should at least follow their advice about children which is exactly in accord with the teachings of our religion.
This school (& its governing trust) has attracted a lot of controversy in the british & US press. (links below)
There are many schools in London and in Britain which are allowing their children to fast, only one needs to keep them notified.
It is unusual that the school is not allowing students to fast on school grounds. Making a recommendation is one thing, disallowing is another thing.
The Muslim association of britain states that there are enough rules in place to protect the vulnerable from fasting without school's interference.

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
