2015-04~06
http://www.lrb.co.uk/blog/2015/06/03/nick-holdstock/181-terrorist-groups/

181 Terrorist Groups « LRB blog
Last week China claimed it had arrested 181 terrorist groups in Xinjiang over the past year. Mass arrests, wide spread surveillance and an increased military presence have targeted ‘religious extremism’; some Xinjiang terrorist groups have been said to have links to Isis. The crackdown followed a number of violent incidents including bombings and knife attacks. According to one estimate, 72 people were killed in less than eight months. At the start of the campaign last year, President Xi Jinping said that terrorists must be made to ‘become like rats scurrying across a street, with everybody shouting “beat them!”’
It remains unclear who is responsible for much of the violence in Xinjiang. The government regularly blames organisations like the East Turkestan Islamic Movement or the Turkestan Islamic Party, but it’s doubtful whether such groups exist in any functional capacity. No details or evidence have been produced to support the latest glowing progress report; as with previous claims, the numbers seem both arbitrary and inflated. Like many countries’, China’s definition of terrorism is elastic enough to allow all kinds of criminal act to be classified under the heading: in the past crop burnings and robberies have been labelled ‘terrorism’. Unsurprisingly, the regime won’t admit that the violence in Xinjiang over the last few years may have its roots in economic, social and cultural discrimination against Uighurs.
It’s routine for the Chinese authorities to trumpet the success of their policy initiatives. In this case, the aim is to reassure the growing population of Han Chinese settlers in Xinjiang that the situation there is stable. The regional authorities in Xinjiang are far more sympathetic to settlers’ concerns than those of the local Uighur population. After the riots in Urumqi in 2009, which officially led to more than 200 deaths, several large protests by Han Chinese in Urumqi were treated with remarkable leniency, even though some of the protesters singled out Wang Lequan, the regional party secretary at the time, for vilification and even death threats.
Previous crackdowns in Xinjiang (known as ‘Strike Hard’ campaigns) have had only a temporary effect, and been counterproductive in the long run: many of the recent clashes around Kashgar and Hotan, in southern Xinjiang, appear to have been sparked by the detention of young Uighur men for their involvement in ‘illegal religious activities’. As elsewhere in China, people can only worship in officially approved venues; students and state employees (including teachers and doctors as well as party officials) are forbidden from attending a mosque or observing Ramadan.
Prominent voices in China are calling for a reassessment of economic policy in Xinjiang. But China’s new draft security law suggests that Xi Jinping’s administration is committed to criminalising dissent, even the moderate criticism offered by the Uighur intellectual Ilham Tohti, who was jailed for life last September for ‘separatism’. Until Uighur communities in Xinjiang are given equal access to employment and education, and allowed the freedom of religious expression guaranteed by China’s constitution, the cycle of resentment, violence and repression will continue.
Nick Holdstock once again upholds the highest commitment to professional journalism with this blog; he really is the new China watcher, but where should we readers come in to this? What commitment should we make too, and should we bestir ourselves by taking the matter on, perhaps to the Chinese Ambassador in London?
Somehow I cannot fire up the mentality to do so because it is all so parlous and remote. The issues are clear in the outline on both sides but not in their cruel effect.
Chris Lehmann: The Candidates
18 June 2015
‘Every one of the Republican candidates can be described as a full-blown adult failure. These are people who, in most cases, have been granted virtually every imaginable advantage on the road to success, and managed nevertheless to foul things up along the way.’
Hugh Pennington:
The Problem with Biodiversity
10 May 2007
‘As a medical microbiologist, for example, I have spent my career fighting biodiversity: my ultimate aim has been to cause the extinction of harmful microbes, an objective shared by veterinary and plant pathologists. But despite more than a hundred years of concentrated effort, supported by solid science, smallpox has been the only success.’
Jeremy Harding: At the Mexican Border
20 October 2011
‘The battle against illegal migration is a domestic version of America’s interventions overseas, with many of the same trappings: big manpower commitments, militarisation, pursuit, detection, rendition, loss of life. The Mexican border was already the focus of attention before 9/11; it is now a fixation that shows no signs of abating.’
James Meek: When the Floods Came
31 July 2008
‘Last July, a few days after the floods arrived, with 350,000 people still cut off from the first necessity of life, Severn Trent held its annual general meeting. It announced profits of £325 million, and confirmed a dividend for shareholders of £143 million. Not long afterwards the company, with the consent of the water regulator Ofwat, announced that it wouldn’t be compensating customers: all would be charged as if they had had running water, even when they hadn’t.’
^ Top | Terms & Conditions | Privacy | Posts (RSS) | Comments (RSS)