2015-04~06
http://www.4-traders.com/news/China-Metallurgical--Xu-Xiangchun-Meets-the-Party-and-Government-Delegation-of-Xinjiang-Hotan-Prefe--20609770/

China Metallurgical : Xu Xiangchun Meets the Party and Government Delegation of Xinjiang Hotan Prefe…

 On the morning of June 18th, Xu Xiangchun, Vice General Manager of the MCC Group met the Party and Government Delegation of Xinjiang Hotan Prefecture at the Headquarters of MCC. He also had an in-depth discussionand communication with Azizi Musa, Deputy Secretary and Administrative Commissioner of Hotan, on the exploitation of mineral resources, municipal infrastructure construction, etc. and reached a consensus.
 Xu Xiangchun warmly welcomed the Party and Government Delegation before briefly introducing the historic evolution and basic information of the MCC Group. He pointed out that the MCC Group is the world's largest and the most powerful contractor of metallurgical construction and services, one of the first 16 central enterprises mainly engaged in real estate development approved by SASAC of the State Council, one of the State-recognized key resources enterprises and the central enterprise with the largest amount of ferrous metal abroad. The Group also owns such mines as the Aynak Copper Mine in Afghanistan, a nickel mine in Papua New Guinea, the Saindak Copper Mine and the Duddar Lead-zinc Mine in Pakistan, an iron mine in Argentina and the Cape Lambert Iron Mine in Australia. He went on to point out that the MCC Group has developed into an expert in developing comprehensive urban construction plans with strong design and construction capacity and whole industry chain integrated services including surveying, design, construction and monitoring. He hopes that both parties will further enhance their communication and exchange, carry out further cooperation in such fields as the exploitation of mineral resources and municipal infrastructure construction and try to find more opportunities for cooperation in keeping with the'One Belt and One Road' initiative on the basis of jointly making contributions to the development of Xinjiang Hotan Prefecture.
 Azizi Musa expressed his gratitude for the warm reception of MCC, pointing out that Hotan Prefecture, which is situated at the southernmost point of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, is a town of great importance on the south line of the Silk Road. With the implementation of the western development strategy and the gradual promotion of 'One Belt and One Road', the industrial structure in Hotan Prefecture has had a further adjustment and its development potential has been further exploited and released. In particular, the discovery of large-scale lead-zinc mines, copper mines and potassium minesgives Hotan Prefecture agreat and historical development opportunity. He hopes that the MCC Group will cooperate further and more closely with Hotan Prefecture, actively seek opportunities for cooperation, be mutually beneficial and make progress together.
 The meeting was attended by Lu Yuguo, Deputy Secretary of Hotan Prefecture and General Director of Beijing Hotan Headquarters to support Xinjiang, Wang Xinsheng, Deputy Director of the CPPCC Working Committee of Hotan Prefecture and Secretary of the Leading Party of the Hotan Merchants Group, Yalkun Ayituerhan Abudureyimu, member of the Administrative Leading Party Group and Secretary General of Hotan Prefecture, Yin Ruhong, Secretary and Director of the NDRC Leading Party Group of Hotan Prefecture, Esquel Abdullah, Director of the Hotan Commission of Economy and Information Technology, Wang Lin, Deputy Secretary of the Hotan Prefectural Party Committee and Head of Hotan, Tu Sixin, Deputy Director of the Prefectural Party Committee General Office and Liaison Office in Beijing, Li Kunpeng, Deputy Chief of the Integrated Secretariat Section of the Administrative Office, Zou Jianhui, Chairman of the China Mining Group and MCCT, Zong Shaoxing, Director of the Management Department of China MCC Mining, Huang Xianghua, Vice General Manager of China ENFI and Ma Weiqing and Shen Dayuan, Vice General Managers of NCMCC.
