2015-04~06
http://inserbia.info/today/2015/04/india-ready-to-strike-port-deal-with-iran/

India Ready To Strike ‘Port’ Deal With Iran | InSerbia News
India has decided to sign a deal with Iran on the basis of which it will develop the West Asian country’s Chabahar port. According to sources close to the Indian government, Roads, Transport and Shipping Minister Nitin Gadkari will soon visit Tehran to sign the deal.
India is planning to expand the capacity of the Iranian port to strengthen its foothold in the Persian Gulf in a bid to balance ‘regional rival’ China’s outreach to Pakistan by developing Gwadar Port with an investment of USD 46 billion. During his recent visit to Islamabad, Chinese President Xi Jinping announced that Beijing’s proposed ‘Silk Route’ economic corridor would connect the north-western Chinese province of Xinjiang with Pakistan’s Gwadar port through a network of roads. Xi’s announcement prompted India to take necessary steps for finalising the Chabahar deal with Iran.
Strategically, India has made a very important decision as Chabahar – situated just 72km west of Gwadar port on the mouth of the Straits of Hormuz in the Persian Gulf – will help it get a land-sea access route into Afghanistan and Central Asia through the Bandar Abbas-Caspian Sea axis. Apart from scaling up its aid work in Afghanistan, India can also counter big Chinese plans for a network of roads, railway tracks, optical fibre cables and pipelines from its Xinjiang Province to Gwadar through the Karakoram highway by developing Chabahar port.
Experts believe that the ‘Chabahar’ deal will allow India to throw a strong challenge to both Pakistan and China as Beijing is trying hard to push the optical fibre line to Afghanistan via Pakistan in an attempt to help Islamabad play a big role in the development of war ravaged Afghanistan.
Under the proposed plan, India and Iran will be involved in a joint venture investment of USD 85.21 million that will allow operation of the port for 10 years. Currently, New Delhi examines all the options of signing the agreement to ensure there will be no violation of international obligations.
India plans to develop two berths at Chabahar, including one for handling container traffic and another for handling multi-purpose cargo. The Modi government has also decided to set up a road-railway network from Chabahar to Milak. Later, the network will be linked with the Indian-built 223km Zaranj-Delaram road in Afghanistan.
A top government official said in New Delhi that India could easily export goods to Central Asian countries via Chabahar port by using the existing north-south corridor. The official further said that it would be important for India to counter China’s increasing domination in the region, stressing: “The Chabahar deal is crucial to India as Pakistan will never allow a land route to Afghanistan. And Prime Minister Modi’s proposed July visit to Central Asia will have little to offer to these extended neighbours.”