2015-04~06
http://www.firstpost.com/world/timeline-unrest-connected-with-chinas-restive-xinjiang-region-1731073.html

Timeline: Unrest connected with China's restive Xinjiang region
#2014 Kunming Massacre   #China   #East Turkestan   #Ilham Tohti   #ListsEtc   #Muslims in China   #Religions Freedom in China   #Terrorism   #Terrorism in China   #Uighur muslims   #Uighurs   #Xinjiang  
Beijing: Forty "rioters" have been killed in China's Xinjiang after a series of coordinated explosions, according to authorities, who have blamed "terrorists" for a string of incidents in the largely Muslim region.
Here is a chronology of key events related to the restive region since 2009:
June 25 -- Two Uighur factory workers are reported killed and dozens injured in a huge brawl with Han Chinese in Shaoguan, in the southern province of Guangdong.
July 5 -- Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of Uighurs riot in the Xinjiang capital Urumqi after security forces move in on a protest over the Shaoguan incident.
Paramilitary policemen with shields and batons patrol near the People's Square in Urumqi, China's northwestern region of Xinjiang. AP
July 7 -- The government says nearly 200 people died in the unrest, with more than 1,600 injured and hundreds arrested. Eventually at least 26 are reportedly sentenced to death.
September 2 -- Han residents of Urumqi protest for days over a wave of syringe stabbings that the government eventually says had nearly 500 victims, blaming "ethnic separatist forces".
July 18 -- Police kill 20 protesters in clashes in Hotan, southern Xinjiang, exiled Uighur groups say. State media say police fired on demonstrators who attacked a police station, killing one officer.
September 15 -- Courts in Xinjiang sentence to death four Uighurs over the July incidents.
December 28 -- Police in Pishan kill seven "terrorists" in a hostage standoff that left one officer dead. State media calls them terrorists engaged in a "holy war".
February 28 -- Rioters armed with knives kill at least 10 people in Yecheng, while police shoot two of the attackers dead, state press say. One man is later sentenced to death.
April 23 -- Gunfights in Bachu leave 15 police and community workers and six "terrorists" dead. Two men are later sentenced to death.
June 26 -- At least 35 people are killed when, according to Xinhua, "knife-wielding mobs" attack police stations and other sites in Lukqun before security personnel open fire. Three people are later sentenced to death.
October 28 -- Three members of the same Xinjiang family crash their car into tourists in Tiananmen Square in Beijing, the symbolic heart of the Chinese state, killing two, before setting it on fire and dying themselves, according to authorities who call it a terrorist attack. Three people are later executed.
December 16 -- 14 Uighurs and two police officers are killed in Shufu county. Authorities describe the slain Uighurs as members of an extremist group, but campaigners say police raided a house where a family was preparing for a wedding, with six women among those killed.
January 15 -- A prominent Uighur academic and critic of government policy, economics professor Ilham Tohti, is detained by police and later charged with "separatism".
January 25 -- A total of 12 people are killed in Xinhe, six in explosions and six shot dead by police dealing with "violent incidents", a government-run news portal says.
March 1 -- Knife-wielding assailants kill 29 people and wound more than 130 at Kunming train station in Yunnan province, more than 1,600 kilometres (1,000 miles) from Xinjiang. Officials blame separatists from Xinjiang.
April 30 -- Assailants armed with knives and explosives attack a rail station in Urumqi, killing one person and wounding 79, on the final day of a visit by President Xi Jinping.
May 22 -- 39 people are killed, along with four attackers, and more than 90 wounded when assailants throw explosives and plough two vehicles through a market in Urumqi, state media say.
June 16 -- Authorities execute 13 people and send more than 100 to jail in a public mass sentencing on mostly terrorism-related offences in Xinjiang.
July 28 -- 37 civilians and 59 "terrorists" are killed and another 13 civilians wounded in an attack on a police station and government offices in Yarkand. Police arrest 215 people in connection with the incident, according to state media.
July 30 -- Jume Tahir, the government-appointed head of the Id Kah mosque in Kashgar, the largest in China, is killed after leading morning prayers. Police shoot dead two alleged assailants and capture a third.
August 1 -- Police in Hotan shoot dead nine suspected terrorists and capture one after discovering the group in a cornfield, according to state media.
September 21 -- A total of 40 "rioters", six civilians and four police are killed in Xinjiang's Luntai county after a series of coordinated explosions at police stations, a market and a shop, authorities say days later.
September 23 -- Tohti is sentenced to life in prison for "separatism."
Committed to ensuring credible investigation into human rights abuses in Sri Lanka, says UN
Two arrested in Australia's New South Wales for allegedly financing Islamic State
There is a high risk of theft of Pakistan's nuclear weapons, says US report
Now, Trump vows to veto UN imposed resolutions, pledges complete support to Israel
Explained: If crude prices are at 2004 levels, why are we paying double the price for petrol, diesel?
Having lost his girlfriend to US-based Indian groom, Chennai man to do ferocious online campaign in support of Donald Trump
Never allowed David Headley to set foot on Pakistan soil, always rolled out Red carpet for him: Nawaz Sharif
ISIS to offer ESOPs to its fighters to counter rising attrition rate
Pakistan felicitates Hafiz Saeed for inspirational leadership after David Headley said Hafiz Saeed inspired him
Feel good factor revived, Achche Din look real after Donald Trump says, “India is doing great”
ISIS in favor of chess ban, asks supporters to play ‘offline CounterStrike’ instead