2015-04~06
http://www.independent.ie/world-news/ethnic-uighur-man-shot-by-police-31308797.html

Ethnic Uighur man shot by police - Independent.ie

Chinese police have shot an ethnic Uighur man dead after he tried to attack travellers at a train station with a cement block.

Officials in the northern city of Xi'an said a police officer repeatedly warned the man before shooting him as he attacked travellers buying tickets at the city's main station.
A message on the force's microblog said the man died in hospital from his injuries and that normal order has been restored.
Ethnic tensions between the Muslim Uighur minority and China's Han majority have periodically erupted into violence in recent years, leaving hundreds dead.
Last year, a group of Uighurs armed with knives killed 31 people at a train station in the south-western city of Kunming.
Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump has confronted doubts about the depth of his knowledge of world affairs, delivering a sober speech to a pro-Israel crowd and outlining for the first time his team of foreign policy advisers.
Thousands of passengers at major Japanese airports have been grounded after airline computer systems stopped working.
Barack Obama and Raul Castro have clashed over human rights and the long-standing US economic embargo during an unprecedented joint news conference that stunned Cubans unaccustomed to their leaders being aggressively questioned.

'It had all the attributes of 'a win, is a win, is a win''

Several bomb attacks have thrown the spotlight on security in Turkey. Here...

Whatever the cause, our careers often affect our personal relationships.

Barack Obama and Raul Castro have clashed over human rights and the long-standing US...

Donald Trump is facing a tough challenge in Utah's caucuses, but the Republican US presidential...

Andy Grove, the former Intel chief executive whose youth under Nazi occupation and escape from...

A performer known for her impersonation as "Mini Kim Kardashian" has died at her...

A Florida jury has awarded a total of 25 million dollars (£17.3m) in punitive damages in the Hulk...

Extremists have attacked the European Union military mission in Mali, police said.

The US government has said it may not need Apple's help to unlock an encrypted iPhone used by one...

THE British Labour Party last night attempted to turn up the heat on prime minister David Cameron...

Malcolm Turnbull, Australia's prime minister, has recalled parliament and threatened to call an early...

The only suspected participant in the November 13 Paris terror attacks to be captured alive...

An elephant has killed a man in West Bengal, India. The incident captured on a smartphone...

Footage released by ESA shows astronauts Tim Peake and Scott Kelly zapping aliens as part of...

President Obama becomes the first US commander in chief to visit Cuba in 88 years.

A heartbreaking video has gone viral on Facebook, of a mother...

At least 14 university students have been killed when the...

A young protester was attacked during Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump's...

Tens of thousands have gathered at a Buddhist temple in...

Four have been killed and 20 injured in a suicide bombing in...