2015-04~06
http://www.cityweekend.com.cn/shanghai/blog/china-travel-xinjiang/

China Travel: Xinjiang | City Weekend
There are a million and one perks to living, studying or traveling here in China. The list is a long one:
Living in Shanghai builds character. China life is difficult sometimes, sure, but if you can handle life here,
Few people know that the Aladdin of One Thousand and One Nights is not actually from the Middle East. He was said to be Chinese. And if, as Scheherazade says, Aladdin was born in China, then he must certainly have been from the vast borderlands of the Muslim northwest. 
At first glance, Xinjiang looks like a completely foreign place -- an enchanted land of sand and camels, with mosques instead of temples, and Arabic letters replacing Chinese characters. The rough-hewn desert spirit of Xinjiang is an adequate antidote to the tedium of traditional Chinese travel trails. The occasional glimpse of a red flag flapping in the wind is the only reminder that this is still China. 
It was the middle of winter when I arrived in Urumqi. Even under thick snow, the city felt like the Middle East, with the wails of a muezzin echoing coldly from ice-slicked minarets. In the Grand Bazaar -- the largest in Asia, according to the plaque outside -- household necessities are sold alongside the exotic and bizarre; the wares looked like they belonged in some genie’s forgotten cave: shiny jewels, antler-handled daggers, whips made of camel’s hooves.
Shopkeepers stroked long beards and inhaled lungfuls of fragrant smoke that swirled through the silver coils of a hookah. Outside, sketchy black-market dealers with hushed voices sold chunks of jade from the trunks of their cars, while scruffy men on the sidewalk dispensed “medicine” from plastic buckets, brewed from dried snakes and shriveled starfish.
It soon became apparent that the religion practiced here was nothing like that which I had seen caricatured on television screens and in comic strips. Despite a number of incidents headlining Chinese newspapers in recent years, differing ethnic groups seemed to mingle quite readily, and Muslim women were more likely to be seen in heels than hijab. 
One of my more pleasant discoveries was a drinking culture much more sophisticated than the liver-wrecking ganbeis in the rest of China. Sinkiang Black Beer stands a frothy head and shoulders over the hops-flavored water poured from Tsingtao bottles. As several Uyghur friends explained (usually over drinks), many local Muslims consider alcohol acceptable outside of Ramadan, although others are more stringent.
Xinjiang is a paradise for carnivores, and a hell for sheep. Every restaurant serves up smoking skewers of thick slabs of lamb, dumplings filled with lamb meat, and joints of lamb dripping with grease. There are still enough vegetarian options to keep herbivorous travelers from starving, and of course, there is plenty of traditional Chinese fare still available. 
Urumqi is a world apart, but it is still a Han-majority city. To really get a feel for the local Uyghur culture, some further exploration outside the provincial capital is required. 
China’s westernmost city is a must-see destination, but as it takes 24 hours by train from Urumqi, we recommend booking a flight instead. Forget about “official” attractions and tourist sites. Kashgar is one of those cities best experienced without an itinerary. 
The city is a melting pot of Mongol, Uyghur, Indian and Central Asian cultures. The Old City, though shrinking under the pressures of urban development, is still labyrinthine enough to get lost in for several days.
The Sunday market, an eccentric circus for everything from carpets to camels, deserves serious exploration. It seems straight out of a camel-and-caravans tale -- and because it was a stop on the Silk Road, we imagine that it still retains some of that ancient flavor. One old lady sold me an overpriced amulet to ward off evil spirits. A whimsical purchase, admittedly, but it worked. I haven’t encountered any evil spirits since. 
Turpan is one of the few places within easy reach of the capital, located only a few hours away by bus. This region sits near the ruins of several ancient kingdoms. There are also abundant vineyards with sweet grapes and even sweeter wine, as well as spellbinding landscapes.
The first sight off the bus is a crowd of overpriced touts and drivers. Although annoying, a good fixer can make this trip a lot smoother. Depending on their connections, they can be a great in with the local community. After some bargaining, we hired a Uyghur boy whose name sounded vaguely like Martin. Between trips, Martin brought us to visit his family and buy fruit from local farmers working in the fields.
Casual historians will probably enjoy visiting the ruined cities of Gaochang and Jiaohe. The latter is probably the better of the two, with well-preserved altars and temples. Both towns are scandalously unguarded once you get past the gate. Rush past a wall too quickly and it crumbles. In Jiaohe, after wandering off the tourist path, we found a pair of human skeletons left carelessly beside an excavated tomb. 
More literary travelers will be interested the Flaming Mountain, where the Monkey King was imprisoned before the opening of the Chinese classic Journey to the West. Disappointingly, the mountain is not volcanic, and I could find no evidence of the simian monarch’s incarceration. Nonetheless, the mountain’s crevassed, red sandstone slopes had a deep hypnotic effect under the sinking sun. 
Twelve hours from Urumqi by bumpy bus, the modern city of Dunhuang, Gansu province, now appears to exists solely for tourism, instead of as the defensive point and critical travel juncture it once was. The city center—which can be completely spanned by a brisk half-hour walk—is overpopulated with trendy cafés, overpriced restaurants, hotels, bars, hostels and even a couple of nightclubs.
Hardened travelers know the cheated feeling that sometimes awaits them at the most touted destinations. After hours or days spent poring over guidebooks or cramped inside a sleeper bus, you arrive dusty and travel-stained, only to find yourself in an elaborate tourist trap. Like Philip Larkin opines, you sometimes are left to “reflect the place was not worth stopping for.” 
Such disappointment is impossible in Dunhuang, so breathtaking is the scope of the Mogao Grottoes. The history of that haunted complex is like something out of Tomb Raider. These caves, left to the ravages of time, were rediscovered in 1900 after being hidden for almost a millennium. A trove of ancient religious texts was uncovered. Most of the scriptures were Buddhist sutras, although Nestorian Christian, Jewish and Taoist texts were also found. 
It’s impossible to “see” all of the caves; there are hundreds of them. Your tour guide will choose four or five of the smaller caves, then take you to the main attraction: a towering set of sculpted Buddhas measuring over 100 feet tall. 
Dunhuang is also home to several other sights, including the westernmost outpost of the Great Wall at Jiayuguan, worth visiting and worthy of a rethink about what these walls represented. While they ultimately failed to keep out barbarians and foreign religion, this final gate was where those who crossed the authorities were cast out to meet a certain, and unquestionable, fate. 
There are a million and one perks to living, studying or traveling here in China. The list is a long one:
Living in Shanghai builds character. China life is difficult sometimes, sure, but if you can handle life here,