2015-04~06
http://www.azerbaijannews.net/index.php/sid/233048161

Azerbaijan News - Tajik Lawmakers Back Tajik-Chinese Extradition Deal


Presenting the bilateral agreement to lawmakers before the debate, Tajik Prosecutor-General Yusuf Rahmonov urged passage in order to safeguard the rights of Tajik nationals in China and give them a chance to serve their terms in Tajik penitentiaries.


He said that 16 Tajik nationals, including seven women, were currently in Chinese detention. Four of those inmates, including one woman, are on death row and five more are serving life terms, he added.


Rahmonov said three Chinese citizens are currently serving prison terms in Tajikistan, one for rape and two for endangering public health and drug trafficking.


Both Tajikistan and China are members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), which also includes Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Russia.


The extradition of suspects and convicts between Russia, former Soviet republics of Central Asia, and China has been under scrutiny by international and domestic human rights defenders for years.


In January, Kyrgyz authorities returned three Chinese citizens to China several days after detaining them for illegally crossing the Kyrgyz-Chinese border.


Two of the Chinese citizens turned to be ethnic Kyrgyz and the other was an ethnic Uyghur from China's northwestern region of Xinjiang, which borders with Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.


Kyrgyz officials said then that the three were returned to China on the basis of a local court's ruling.


The ethnically Turkic Uyghurs, who are predominantly Muslim, routinely face discrimination in China.


Another Central Asian state, Kazakhstan, has repatriated several Chinese citizens of Uyghur origin who were seeking Kazakh asylum, earning criticism from domestic and international human rights organizations.


Uyghurs, China's Turkic-speaking, mainly Muslim minority, have long complained about their treatment under Chinese rule, and routinely receive lengthy sentences or are executed after Central Asian states send them back to China.


More than 100 people were killed in violence in Xinjiang in 2014, and scores of Uyghurs have been imprisoned or sentenced to death over those incidents.


China's ruling Communist Party tightly restricts access to the restive Xinjiang, and information is difficult to independently verify.


Along with Uyghurs, Xinjiang has indigenous populations of ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, and Tajiks who live mainly in districts bordering those three Central Asian countries.

Copyright (c) 2014. RFE/RL, Inc. Republished with the permission of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 1201 Connecticut Ave NW, Ste 400, Washington DC 20036
Kazakhstan ruling party is expected to retain its control in the lower house of parliament in a snap election on March 20. President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Experienced striker Sunil Chhetri has been ruled out of the Indian football squad for the forthcoming World Cup qualifier against Iran due to an injury. Chhetri, who ...
Astana, March 20 (IANS) Voters across Kazkhstan on Sunday began casting their ballots in early legislative elections to choose a new parliament. Polling stations opened at 7.00 a.m., EFE news ...
China's plans to create a new Central Asian security bloc have raised concerns in Moscow that Russia is declining geopolitically in Central Asia and may now be competing with China. General Fang ...
Nerves on the Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan cooled somewhat on March 21 with news that both sides agreed to draw back their forces from a disputed area. Authorities in Kyrgyzstan, who have been the only ...
Exit polls in Kazakhstan have provided a preliminary confirmation of widely expected results in the March 20 parliamentary elections, showing the ruling Nur Otan party winning around 82 percent of ...
Kazakhstan is voting in a snap parliamentary election expected to return a storming victory for the ruling Nur Otan party, which has run without any substantive opposition. Speaking as he cast his ...
A sudden deployment of troops by Uzbekistan along a disputed section of border has rattled nerves in Kyrgyzstan. Kyrgyzstan's border service reported on March 18 that Uzbek troops have blocked an ...
In his latest endeavor to gin up some or any foreign investment, Tajikistan's President Emomali Rahmon last week traveled to the United Arab Emirates. The bilateral deals signed at the conclusion ...
Astana (Kazakhstan) (AFP) - The ruling party of energy-rich Kazakhstan's ageing autocrat President Nursultan Nazarbayev secured a landslide victory in parliamentary elections, results showed ...
REUTERS photo British oil major BP expects flat oil production in 2016 at its Azeri-Chirag-Guneshli (ACG) oilfields in Azerbaijan, where it plans two rounds of maintenance this year, the ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - The situation on the Kyrgyz-Uzbek border in Chalasart village, Aksy district, Jalal-Abad region, is relatively stable now, reported the press service of the State Border Service ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - Addressing residents and guests of the Kazakh capital, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated all Kazakhstanis on Nowruz, reports Kazinform. ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - Mountainous areas of Kyrgyzstan are still avalanche-prone on March 21 due to past precipitation and expected warmer weather, according to the Hydrometeorology Agency ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - The national football team of Tajikistan on Sunday arrived in Adelaide for the second round of the qualifying tournament of the 2018 FIFA World Cup against Australia, reported ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 21 Trend: Special Representative of the German Government for the OSCE Chairmanship Gernot Erler, together with the Co-Chairs of the OSCE Minsk ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 21 By Elena Kosolapova – Trend: Kazakhstan held a parliamentary election March 20, the result of which, according to exit polls, ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 21 Trend: Offroad motor rally was organized to Khinalig village of the Guba district, Azerbaijan, as part of the ASAN mektub project with the ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 21 Trend: Azerbaijan Airlines published an updated summer schedule, which includes amendments relating to the abolition of daylight saving time ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 21 Trend: Bakcell, The First Mobile Operator and The Leading Mobile Internet Provider of Azerbaijan today launched a new toolbar which helps ...
Azerbaijan News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Mountainous terrain, spas, historical sites, an attractive seacoast and cave settlements are the chief attractions of Azerbaijan.
Azerbaijan will appeal to travelers who are looking for something truly different, who are accustomed to travel in the former Soviet Union and who enjoy roughing things a bit. Don't go expecting varied shopping, nightlife, deluxe accommodations or a relaxing vacation.
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from the United Nations Security Council sanctions list after a Chinese request, a media report said ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by temporarily easing trade sanctions slapped earlier this month against the Chinese telecom equipment and smartphone maker ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from the United Nations Security Council sanctions list after a Chinese request, a media report said ...
BAMAKO, Mali – At least three unidentified gunmen opened fire in their attempt to force their entry into the European Union Training Mission (EUTM) headquarters in the capital of Mali, Bamako, ...
WASHINGTON - Bernie Sanders, lagging behind Hillary Clinton in the Democratic presidential race, scored a resounding win over his rival in the Democrats Abroad global primary. The group Democrats ...
LONDON – There are “clear downside risks” to the country if Britain left the European Union, ratings agency Moody’s said on Tuesday, warning that the exit from the bloc would also lead to ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
© 1999 - 2016 Azerbaijan News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)