2015-04~06
http://www.dawn.com/news/1188557/

China pushes Uighurs to give up fasting in Ramazan - World - DAWN.COM
BEIJING: Some local governments in China's unruly far western region of Xinjiang are stepping up controls on the Islamic faith followed by the Uighur people ahead of Ramazan, including making officials swear they will not fast.
The holy month, which begins this week, is a sensitive time in Xinjiang following an uptick in deadly attacks blamed by Beijing on Islamist militants over the past three years in which hundreds have died.
In recent days, state media and government websites in Xinjiang have published stories and official notices demanding that party members, civil servants, students and teachers in particular do not observe Ramazan, something that happened last year too.
In Jinghe county near the Kazakh border, food safety officials decided last week that they would “guide and encourage” halal restaurants to stay open as normal during Ramazan, the government said on its website.
Those that do stay open would get fewer visits from food safety inspectors, it added.
In Maralbexi county, where 21 died in violent unrest in 2013, party officials had to give verbal as well as written assurances “guaranteeing they have no faith, will not attend religious activities and will lead the way in not fasting over Ramazan”, state media said.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including restrictions on religious practices, have provoked unrest, allegations denied by Beijing.
“China is increasing its bans and monitoring as Ramazan approaches. The faith of the Uighurs has been highly politicised, and the increase in controls could cause sharp resistance,” Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the exiled Uighur group, the World Uyghur Congress, said in a statement.
Telephone calls to the Xinjiang government's spokesman seeking comment were not answered.
The government there has always denied trying to curb fasting, though officials and people younger than 18 are banned from participating in religious activities.
On Sunday, Xinjiang's Communist Party chief, Zhang Chunxian, warned that the region's stability faced “sustained pressure” from religious extremists.
China's Communist Party says it protects freedom of religion, but it maintains a tight grip on religious activities and allows only officially recognised religious institutions to operate.
China has around 20 million Muslims spread throughout the country, only a portion of which are Uighur, a Turkic-language speaking group that calls Xinjiang home.
Read more: London school trust bans Muslim students from fasting in Ramazan
We are OK with whatever China does to its Muslims. As long as it is not India, Israel, Europe and USA, we keep our eyes closed. What a two-faced nation we have become. By the way, why is it that if a European draws some cartoons, we kill 10-15 Muslims in Pakistan?. Do we not have any common sense left in us?.
I'm not surprised that this write up evokes so little comment. In recent years we've noticed that China-syndrome has settled in Pakistani eyes so much that they have totally genuflected themselves before Chinese priorities. If China denies basic rights to their Muslim populace, it'd be all right, but if Myanmar tortures their Muslim citizen, whole country demands their boycott. Fact is both are wrong and both should be opposed vehemently.
Pakistan should take this issue up with China. Furthermore we should open our boundaries to these brothers if China does not allow them to practice their faith without government intrusions.
One side Modi is wishing all Muslims for holy month of ramzan and on other side Pakistans all weather friend, china, telling them to give up there faith...now you decide ki kya karana hai
When we have signed Economic Corridor deal, we have also sold our faith.
To all those who think that the world will be a better place with China as its sole super 
power;
The truth is China will be ruthless. If anything their history teaches us id that Chinese super power will be barbaric simply because for last 60 years they have not been able to develop their society on cohesion but coercion , where dissent is not tolerated.
Enough is enough, the sharif brethren are busy inking out deals of profit with China calling it a great friend and all to Pakistan while it continues its persecution of its Muslim minorities on same footing as fanatic European right wing leaders and the pro-Israeli Neocons and up coming Jebs of US and outgoing Harper in Canada. so a tall order to rein in this axis of Islam haters but nonetheless, if China wants the benefits from the corridor then it would have to pony up to give the Uighars their right to practice freely their beliefs and Gen. Raheel needs to press this up with Beijing.
China promotes no religion. It's their country and they have the right to do so.
It is not fair with the Chinese Muslims who should be free to practice their religion.
this is ridiculous and crime. how can you stop someone from fundamental rights?
imagine if all muslim countries stop chinese ppl from practicing buddhism in their countries or place a ban on speaking up or driving?
now, pakistan can atleast see one of the fundamental differences between India and China.
our government and military is helping china crackdown on muslims fighting to get their rights in xinjiang
Just think about, as it is said, if China becomes Super Power, how dangerous they would be!
Chine can do what China wants. They must have valid reason for it. Pak-China friendship zindabad.
If government can help rohingya living 1000 miles away why not help uighars next door?...
China should be told straight away to stop bullying Muslims in China and Burma (Myanmar).
Lol, as soon as I read this article, I knew our Indian friends will have a lot to say in here. NOthing in life is more guaranteed then our friends across the border who have so much concern for our welfare!
If only Pakistan and India could live as normal neighbors we will not need to look at USA, China or any other country for help. I wish if India and Pakistan could shun their differences and work for the noble South Asian Civilization. Peace and harmony between India and Pakistan will change our destiny in short span of time. What we need to do is to accept and promote diversity and pluralism. The conjoined India and Pakistan share history and share good or bad future as well.
@magesh And what difference is that? The fact that China wants to invest in Pakistan's future and infrastructure and India wants to sabotage the same efforts made by China. Thanks for your concern. We already know the difference.
Power corrupts whether it be any superpower. Hence, China is the same. The question here is why China receives negative press when there are so many countries and leaders supporting oppression . Look at Aung sin Kyi - how supportive was she when it came to Rohingya Muslims. How supportive are other countries?
The Islamic world and Pakistan must take a stand against the Chinese human right violations. Nothing is more important than sanctity of humans. As for the Chinese investment , its not charity! It's as much a Chinese need than it is to us
Only we "Pakistaanis" are concerned, what about champions Iran and saudi Arabia both are equally friendly with the Great China the reminscent of Chengez kahn
There should be a high powered committee to investigate and to find out how to help those Muslim brothers.
In geopolitics the internal matters is of no concern in the friendship between between countries . China is our only real partner in military strategy and economic development. It is now the biggest economy in the world and a military superpower so it would foolish of us to criticize China.
China is a communist country and no one should expect Chinese government to respect religions. For a believer in communism it is like a religion for them. If Islamic countries do not allow communism in their countries, China have the same right to ban religions. It is better for Pakistan government to ignore the Uighur problems. Otherwise the best friend may turn to worst enemy.
@Fahd 70% Chinese don't believe in any religion. Buddhist are only in Tibet and some part of China.
Pakistan has raised the issue about Rohingyas but now what about Uighur muslim brothers.
Pakistan should bring it up with China on diplomatic level.
Where is pakistan leadership on this ? Why the leadership has failed to address the issue when Chinese president was here
In many Islamic countries non Muslims can not eat pork or consume alcohal openly , that's their law, so why China can not have their own laws.
If it was any other country there would be riots and condemnation about religious freedom,minorities and human rights.Strangely the whole islamic world is silent and has developed amnesia!!!
Sab se pehlay Pakistan is not working here.... Common guy's wake up!!!
China should learn to respect all faith. Fasting reinforces so many noble human traits. It teaches us patience, teaches us to be charitable to the poor.
With friendship higher than Himalayas and deeper than Oceans -- why not!
China is not doing right thing ..one can not suppress the basic human and religious rights of any community or faith...disgusting act by Chinese
It is shameful for our rulers and all political parties who sign praises of china for the investment in the country but never raised the issue of the state of the Muslims in Xinjiang, where it seems they dont have the freedom to even fast in Ramadan!
@HARMONY-1 - Why impersonate others? Have courage to be yourself!
@eyes open : only one super power in this world that is United States of America
@adnan Wow! To live in China or Pak. Uighurs will have a very difficult time deciding!
That's not right. fasting is related to many good things to human thinking.... It's there in Hinduism, Islam and buddism too.... Should not be banned.
The US is better than China as the former does not interfere in the religious affairs of the people.
why Pakistan should worry about this; why not other Muslim countries?
We are not contractors of the world or Islam. If any ruling is passed in Pakistan would any one come to attack Pakistan. First let us put our own house in order. Chinese Muslims have not sought help from anyone. They can handle
China needs to reconsider their policy of interference in people's personal affairs. It can damage their relations with 1.3 billions Muslims market. China's economy cannot survive without this market.
If China does not reconsider its policy of interference in Muslims affairs, then I will stop buying Chinese made products and start buying Indonesian, Malasian, Vietnam, Turkey, Indian, the rest of the world who believe in non-interference in people's personal lives.
Huma history has shown the more you oppress peoples belief the more they stick to their belief. This is especially true to the Abrahamic faiths. China is on the wrong path here. Question is why Islamabad do not discuss this with our friends in Beijing. Pakistan is after all a neighbor to Xinjiang/ East-Turkistan.
With the time the idea of Millat has changed into nations. Now we are Pakistani, Indian, Iranian, Afghani or Chinese and that is the ground reality. We Pakistanis have to mind our own business.
@magesh population of Muslims in China is not even one tenth,wrong comparison.
@Gul Pasha , brother you are right. General parvez musharaf is the only person who can resolve kashmir problem. he should be given opportunity to act on behalf of Pakistan. i am sure within five years , he will be able to resolve the issue to the satisfaction of all the three parties. other than him, none can resolve it.he articulates Pakistan's point of view without hurting opposite party.
No country should force a muslim to give up fasting. China should stop making such demands to muslim minority. Muslims have right to fasting. United Nations should look into this serious matter & condemn such state demands on its citizens.
Please note, this is not the decision of the central Chinese government. Before the Indians pounce on this in an attempt to kill Pak-China relationship, this is actions of a few local region government.
What about fasting ban in UK and hijab ban in France etc?? Should we bycott all those countries. It is the extremists who have defamed Islam in the world. Better stop crying nonsense and raise the issue through UN, Arab League and Oh I See (OIC).
@Abdul Majeed Sheikh Turkey has already offered Chinese muslims to come to Turkey if they desire; some of these provinces were part of Turkey the super power of 19th century. Do not forget China is a communist country.
@Gul Pasha 
You have a good heart brother, but I don't think Indian govt looks at this way. probably if the Indian rulling party was from on of the Indian border-states then they would have a better understanding of pakistan, but rest of the India sees pakistan only as a nuiscance and a problem.
Pakistan should raise the issue of religious freedom with China, OIC and UN even if it risks Chinese investment.
If Muslims are denied their right to practice there religion, then intolerance will be promoted and any struggle will be legitimate.
@Fahd in most muslim countries practising other religion is either looked down upon, discouraged, prohibited and even prosecuted.
Remember Muslims are a minority in China and China is treating them just like we treat minority in Pakistan. Please do not object to China's policy.
@Fahd If that happens Chinese Govt. wouldn't pay any heed.
May be China local governments would not mind if these Uighurs fasted during off duty hours, i.e. at night. (That way both would be happy). Hard fact is that, Fasting in the working hours reduces productivity per officer. You can see it in Malaysia when output per fasting officer plunges.
@Fahd and @ANON: In todays World there shall be no super power. US have realized long ago that they can't rule the World being a Bully and has adopted a vital diplomatic approach to deal with Fast growing economies and Developed nations. So none would claim super power of the World. This mantra of ruling the World exists only in our part of the World. The developed nations has no fear from any other nation.
Even as a non-Muslim, I am deeply hurt at the latest dictum from China towards its Muslim community. What the Chinese do not understand that such harsh measures will further alienate the Muslims leading to more violence in the country. Surprisingly, such measures are not imposed on Hindus and Sikhs who are allowed to construct their places of worship in China and celebrate religious festivals without imposition of any ban.
@Faraz I agree with you fully that minorities should have right to practice their religion. But China, Burma and some Muslim countries like Saudi Arabia does not give these rights to their minorities. We should be fair to all minorities whether Muslim or non-Muslims and fight for everybody's right to choice of religion of their choice.
@HZR Not strange or surprising at all... It is par for the course.
If Chinese orders not follow then China will deal with strict laws. China very strict about law breakers
What is the history of Uyghurs? How did Islam get inside walls of China? And why dint it flourish there? Anyone knows any background?
@Khalid, really appreciate your open mindedness and your sincere comment.
let's we respect the all relegion. Then pease will come very soon.
@Last Word It has more to do with how Islam is perceived by the rest of the world. Based on the many negative perceptions of the religion, the communist Chinese government would obviously feel threatened. Barely day goes by without violence among Muslims. Time for some serious damage control effort, or this perception will continue.
Why india pakistan not think to destroy borders and have free movement of people without visa or passport.
china is nodoubt a fast growing nation in the east, its govt should understand that they should not invite troubles by banning Muslims to fast in the holy month of Ramazan. Muslim nations should take a stand and assure the Muslims of china that we are with them. if china continues to do such stupid things, Muslims all over the world should put pressure on china to withdraw her daydreams, other wise they should cut off their political & economical relations with china. and above all china should not cry if Muslims take strong actions against china. in nutshell china unfortunately is sowing of the seeds of her own destruction.
sorry to say but the concept of muslim brotherhood has faded away.Another current example of it is the miserable attitude of muslims towards rohingyan muslims.
every year it is the same news item, appearing as regards china"S apathy towrds its minority! but no muslim country ever raised its fingers against this suppression!
If we have decided we will never be self sufficient then we will have to face with this reality to be a two faced nation with a begging bowl always in hand.
@Last Word 
Hindus and Sikhs were there been there and did not come from somewhere else. It is us Muslim who came from somewhere else. please respect minority so others respect us. All religion should be respected.
i dont know why all the people in comment section are getting so hyped up. it is not pakistan's duty to fight for muslims living in every nook and corner of the world. pakistan has strategic relations with China which cannot be sacrificed over the issue of fasting. 
there is no need to lambast the pakistani nation over this "hypocrisy" as there is none. khud koi roza rakhay na rakhay china mein musalmano ki barri fikar hai.
@proud-winner
What are you drinking brother? China is an authoritarian country, not some loose federation of states. No regional authorities have courage to do anything like this without blessings from the central Chinese government.
We strongly condemn this unethical decision of chinese govt.dont practice wrong habit on peaceful mualims.
Both attitudes are bad I agree with you. However, the intensity is different. Burma is killing people in multitude and China is banning fast which is not as bad but still should not be done.
Your comment must be written in Urdu billboards and displayed across pakistan for every extreamist have an opportunity to see. Perhaps they may start thinking - for the future of pakistan.
Perhaps the uneducated easily manipulatable population may start thinking objectively/logcially/empathatically - for the future of Pakistan.
@Nazim so pak china relation is a marriage of convinance. That means all the noise about muslim brotherhood is an eye wash.
This is strictly an internal matter of China. They have their own reasons for doing it and in this case it's the security of the nation. How is this different from Middle East countries closing down restaurants during day time hours to all patrons without any considerations for people who may not follow Ramdhan?
@ADNAN I feel like laughing , This is just tip of ice berg
Should we wait for an OIC resolution on this? Probably not, because China's internal laws are their internal affair, just like Burma's citizenship laws for Rohingyas are their internal affair.
oops!
Maybe Pakistanis can set an example by treating their minorities with respect instead of whining about other countries.
These steps would only alienate Muslims further. Being close friends, Pakistan government and people should advise China against taking these steps.
People will fast no matter what the government is telling them. They can't throw people in jail for fasting.
@Fahd "this is ridiculous and crime. how can you stop someone from fundamental rights? imagine if all muslim countries stop chinese ppl from practicing buddhism in their countries or place a ban on speaking up or driving?"
China doesn't promote any religion including buddhism. It may have practiced it a long time ago but since the advent of communism, there is no importance given to any religion - not to say that what they are ding to uighurs is right, but is not surprising from any repressive and authoritarian rule.
@zafar iqbal ..... Most Pakistanis know very little about China or Chinese people or the Beijing government.
@Fahd ... Very Chinese practice Buddhism. Very few Chinese have a religion of any kind. They practice Confucian Ethics.
if things go on the way they are then every country will follow Chinese.
Thank God somebody threw light on this matter... China is extremely anti-religion...Big beards, burqas and even religious caps/hats are banned... They also trade openly with countries that commit genocide against many religions...
@shoaib Epic you are. How realistic this is " khud koi roza rakhay na rakhay china mein musalmano ki barri fikar hai"
China is not democracy. You can't expect muslims to get the same rights they enjoy in western world!
Pakistan is a Muslim state and china has very...very few Muslims remaining. China has used all means to suppress and torchered them to leave this faith. Burka, kurta-salwar is banned. The biggest is, Namaz is banned. How can a country that bans Islam and kills muslim be all weather friend of a Islamic Pakistan? I have said this many times and will say this again, Pakistan, you will to pay the price of Chinese friendship and the price will be so huge that you will never be able to afford. Happy Ramzaan.
@CYRUS, They did, throw people in jail for fasting, in the past. It feels like a stupid joke, but it is not. Bigger joke is our Pakistani friends did not find it objectionable then. Surprised to see their fair reaction this time though.
That's it. You guys sing songs of Pakistan-China friendship. Me and my family have decided not to buy a single Chinese item henceforth. Chinese are worse than terrorists.
Just imagine what will happen if these Chinese people start coming in hoards for various projects in our country?
@mohammad shafique 
They are well within their rights to fight for their causes but not through militancy. Pakistan cannot allow Uighurs to use Pakistan as safe heavens to carry out attacks against China and that's where we are helping. 
Let's be honest, our national interests come before our religion and it is the same for every other country. Why should we interfere in China internal matters when they don't interfere in our country?
Yes, I don't support this new initiative by China and I hope they realise it themselves.
Sadly enough, China is a super power both economically and militarily. There is nothing anyone or any country can do about this.
Religious rights should be respected and uighurs should be granted basic rights if China wants to sustain as a successful nation
Why cant we raise this at OIC like we did for Rohingyas?
what? how dare china do this. no protest on the streets of lahore, islamabad or karachi, no calling for un to intervene?????

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
