2015-04~06
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2015/07/06/China-issues-travel-warning-in-Turkey-after-protests/5191436188611/

China issues travel warning after Turkish protests - UPI.com
ANKARA, Turkey, July 6 (UPI) -- China's embassy in Ankara, Turkey, issued a travel warning Monday, claiming some Chinese tourists were attacked during protests in Turkey.
Anti-Chinese demonstrations in Istanbul over the weekend focused on alleged mistreatment of ethnic Uighurs in western China. Protesters were seen chasing a group of Korean tourists whom they mistook as Chinese, the Turkish-owned "Happy China" restaurant was attacked and Chinese flags were burned.
A diplomatic note was sent last week by Turkey to China, expressing concern that Uighurs, a Muslim minority within China, were forbidden from fasting during the holy month of Ramadan.
Beijing denied that any restrictions were placed on Uighur religious practices.
Turkey has close ties with the Uighur population, in religious, ethnic and cultural connections.
In a statement, the Chinese embassy advised Chinese tourists in Turkey to avoid traveling alone, or to photograph protesters. Ethnic tensions in western China have increased with the arrival of majority Han Chinese in western China, particularly in the provincial capital of Xinjiang, and increased complaints by indigenous Uighurs they face discrimination and persecution.
Last week Chinese state media accused Turkey of fermenting tension in China.
"The Turkish government has already on multiple occasions unreasonably interfered in Chinese internal politics, which indicates 'Pan-Turkism' still exists in modern Turkish society. We can see that Turkey has ulterior motives regarding interference in the Xinjiang issue," Xinjiang University professor Adilijan Ablet in a state-run newspaper.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.