2015-04~06
http://english.cntv.cn/2015/06/14/VIDE1434258966339473.shtml

Silk Road Journey Xinjiang Ep 6: Uyghurs hope stability will bring growth in tourism - CCTV News - CCTV.com English

Hot:
Exhibition of IPR protection
 | 
 Yuan
 | 
 Golden Era
 | 
 Four Comprehensives
 | 
 AIIB

Opinion | Panview | One Belt, One Road | Tibet | Closer to China with R.L.Kuhn
China | World | Business | Sports | Culture | Sci-Tech | Opinion | Special Reports
CCTV app for iPhone | iPad | Android Phone | I Love Africa for iOS | Android
Watch to Learn | Growing up with Chinese | Special Chinese | Travel in Chinese
CCTV-9 Docu Live | One City, One Flavor | World Heritage China | Roof of the World
Dialogue | China 24 | News Hour | Global Business | Sports Scene | Culture Express
China Video | World Video | Most Popular | Reporters | Correspondents |CCTV Interviews
Xi's speech | Military parade | Commemoration Ceremony | Patriotic songs
In the city of Kashgar, located in southern Xinjiang, an overwhelming 90 percent of the population is ethnically Uyghur. It is also where the majority of China's terrorist attacks took place last year. 
A knack for business is part of the Uyghur tradition. Abduany runs a shop at a bazaar selling Uyghur products for both locals and visitors. His hometown, Kashgar, was once a major stop on the ancient Silk Road. Traders from all different regions and ethnicities met here to exchange goods and connect cultures. But these days, business is in decline and Abduany has been struggling. 
"Last year, there was a string of terrorist attacks in Xinjiang. And now, people from other ethnic groups do not want to visit Kashgar any more, because they think we don't like them," Abduany said.
Abduany started his apprenticeship 20 years ago. Over the years, his skills gradually improved, and so did his business, thanks to an increasing number of outside visitors. Seeing that boom in tourism, hundreds of shops like Abduany's started expanding and renovating, with the support of local authorities. 
"In the past, the houses in this neighborhood were too old and shabby, there were many safety risks. Since 2008, the government and its residents have been co-investing in renovations, in order to raise the living standards while maintaining the Uyghur style," said Parhati, director of Kashgar Old Town Renovation Office.
Abduany's neighbor, Salim, has also spent huge amounts to complete renovations on his house. He reserves a special room just to receive guests. Although he and his family do not speak any Mandarin Chinese, his warm smile and plates of unique Uyghur snacks are evidence of his hospitality. 
"Uyghurs are very hospitable people. And we are also interested in making friends with outsiders. That's why I've spent quite a lot on the renovation of my house, hoping to receive guests from outside," he said.
But despite his friendliness, he has struggled to gain the return on his investment. Salim's home is in a neighborhood with tens of thousands of other Uyghurs who have just finished renovating their homes and shops. The new streets still have the old Uyghur flavor, but what is missing is the influx of visitors. The recent spate of terror attacks has frightened many away, and it is taking its toll on local Uyghur families. 
Although tourism has been in decline over the past few years, there have also been some positive signs.
Xinjiang's tourism authorities say that in the first quarter of this year, there has been a rebound in several key figures. Official data show that Xinjiang received more than 7 million domestic visitors from January to April, up by nearly 10 percent from the same period last year. At the same time, more than 250,000 overseas tourists came to Xinjiang, up by around 7 percent. But officials also admit that while they are trying to ride the ‘Belt and Road’ wave to boost tourism, security in the region remains a major challenge. 
Locals like Abduany and Salim hope that a small number of extremists and terrorists will not be allowed to ruin their image of the greater population of ordinary Uyghurs. They say they will continue to work hard and look forward to welcoming guests into their homes.



Share this: 
Share on twitter
Share on facebook
Share on sinaweibo
Share on email




Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Instagram
Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Wechat
Manufacturing upgrade high on agenda as China Development Forum closes

Climate Change Conference
G20, APEC Summits
Xi visits U.S.
Beijing 2022
Xi Attends BRICS Summit
Truth and Denial
July 7th Incident
Understanding the CPC
Li Attends 17th China-EU Leaders' Meeting
7th China-U.S. S&ED & 6th CPE
Dragon Boat Festival
The Basic Law
Beijing Bids for 2022 Winter Olympics
Xi Visits Kazakstan, Russia, Belarus
Nepal Earthquake
World Book Day
2015 Boao Forum
2015 Two Sessions
AirAsia Flight Crashed
