2015-04~06
http://www.australiannews.net/index.php/sid/232119753

Australian News - China's Xi Gets Warm Welcome in Islamabad

A 21-gun salute and schoolchildren singing anthems praising Pakistan's friendship with China began a day of red carpet treatments for the Chinese leader.

President Xi Jinping arrived in Islamabad accompanied by his wife, senior ministers and CEOs of Chinese companies. He met with Pakistan's top civilian and military leadership.

"Today we have decided to elevate our relationship to all weather strategic cooperative partnership," said Sharif.

Sharif added the two countries, already close allies and strategic partners, will increase cooperation in energy and infrastructure sectors.

"The two sides agreed that they will take the building of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor as the center and priorities, and focus on the four areas of Gwadar port, the transportation infrastructure, energy, and industry cooperation to form a one-plus-four cooperation layout," said Xi.

The corridor is a collection of roads, rail links and gas and oil pipelines going from Pakistan's southern seaport of Gwadar to southwestern China.

It is part of China's vision to revive the ancient Silk Road and join Asia to Europe via road and sea links.

 The way forward, however, is plagued by security concerns on both sides. A separatist insurgency in Pakistan's restive Baluchistan province and Islamist militancy elsewhere in the country have hampered development. Meanwhile, China is concerned Muslim separatists in its western Xinjiang region are receiving training and support from militants in Pakistan's lawless tribal areas.

Pakistan has promised to create a special security force to protect Chinese personnel and ensure smooth implementation of projects linked to the corridor.

Pakistan's military leadership apparently briefed the Chinese leader on its operation against militants in the northern areas. In his statement, President Xi encouraged them to continue.

"We support the Pakistani side to move forward its counterterrorism strategy in light of its own national conditions and are prepared and willing to continue to help Pakistan to strengthen its capacity to fight terrorism."

He also encouraged Pakistan to help stabilize neighboring Afghanistan. China is concerned that continuing violence in Afghanistan could hinder plans for the economic future of the region.
Sydney - Two pieces of debris found in Mozambique have arrived in Australia for experts to determine if they came from missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, an official says.
A huge search for the ...
Johannesburg -Three foundations have called on the ANC's National Executive Committee (NEC) to take decisive responsibility by implementing urgent "corrective" actions in the interests of all South ...
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Melbourne - Formula One's existing safety measures saved Fernando Alonso's life in ...
Sydney - Environmental groups on Monday urged greater action on climate change after the Australian government declared the highest alert level over an epidemic of coral bleaching in the pristine ...
Indian Wells - World No 1 Novak Djokovic won the Indian Wells title on Sunday with a 6-2, 6-0 rout of a hobbled Milos Raonic, taking the crown for the third straight year and a record fifth time ...
Cape Town - South Africa may have to significantly restructure their team if JP Duminy is declared unfit for their key ICC World Twenty20 match against in-form West Indies at Nagpur on Friday (16:00 ...
Sydney - Australian authorities said on Sunday coral bleaching occurring in the World Heritage-listed Great Barrier Reef had become "severe", the highest alert level, as sea temperatures ...
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Melbourne - Formula One will revert to the old system of qualifying for next ...
Paris - England, led by bullocking No 8 Billy Vunipola, confirmed their remarkable transformation from World Cup flops to Six Nations Grand Slam winners when they beat France 31-21 on Saturday.
The ...
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA--(Marketwired - Mar 21, 2016) - Adoption of people-based advertising in Australia is rising quickly as advertisers experience superior performance and return on ad spend from ...
Sydney, March 22 (IANS) Two people were arrested on Tuesday in Australia's New South Wales state for allegedly financing the Islamic State (IS) terror group. They were accused of being involved "in ...
Indian Wells (US), March 21 (IANS) Tennis World No.1 Novak Djokovic believes that male tennis players should earn more money than their female counterparts, considering the fact that more people ...
Canberra, March 21 (IANS) Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull on Monday announded the country will hold an early election in July if the Senate fails to pass laws aimed at curbing union ...
Canberra, March 20 (IANS) Queensland's political system is set for its biggest shake-up in the decades as a referendum for fixed four-year parliamentary terms looks likely to succeed. On Sunday, ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 20 (IANS) Malaysian officials said on Sunday that two pieces of suspected debris of the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 have arrived in Australia for verification. Both ...
Los Angeles, March 20 (IANS) Rapper Iggy Azalea has revealed she considered driving off a cliff to end her life last year after the backlash she received over her career pushed her into a dark zone ...
Bengaluru, March 21 (IANS) Australia beat Bangladesh in the third match of the World Twenty20's Super 10 stage on Monday at the Chinnaswami Stadium, chasing down a 157 run target with three wickets ...
Bengaluru, March 21 (IANS) Bangladesh piled up a score of 156/5 in 20 overs against Australia in the group stage Super 10 match at the World Twenty20 here on Monday. Mahmudullah top scored with a ...
Melbourne, March 21 (IANS) Two-time Formula One world champion Fernando Alonso has admitted he is lucky to be alive after a high-speed crash that forced race officials to momentarily stop the ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Following his maiden win in the Indian Open last weekend, S.S.P. Chawrasia made a jump of 92 places to be 151st in the latest global golf rankings released on Monday. The ...
Australian News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Free-spirited Australia - a continent offering endless holiday experiences. Explore the colours of the outback, the excitement of the cities and a range of natural wonders you won't find anywhere else. The pearly sails of the Sydney Opera House, jutting out to jewel-blue water and over-reached by the intricate Sydney Harbour Bridge has made Sydney Harbour one of the world's most recognisable images.
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from the United Nations Security Council sanctions list after a Chinese request, a media report said ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by temporarily easing trade sanctions slapped earlier this month against the Chinese telecom equipment and smartphone maker ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from the United Nations Security Council sanctions list after a Chinese request, a media report said ...
BAMAKO, Mali – At least three unidentified gunmen opened fire in their attempt to force their entry into the European Union Training Mission (EUTM) headquarters in the capital of Mali, Bamako, ...
WASHINGTON - Bernie Sanders, lagging behind Hillary Clinton in the Democratic presidential race, scored a resounding win over his rival in the Democrats Abroad global primary. The group Democrats ...
LONDON – There are “clear downside risks” to the country if Britain left the European Union, ratings agency Moody’s said on Tuesday, warning that the exit from the bloc would also lead to ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
© 1999 - 2016 Australian News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)