2015-04~06
http://www.bignewsnetwork.com/index.php/sid/232106541

China Pakistan Visit Focuses on Proposed Economic Corridor
Our eNewspaper network was founded in 2002 to provide stand-alone digital news sites tailored for the most searched-for locations for news. With a traditional newspaper format, more than 100 sites were established each with a newspaper-type name to cover the highest-ranked regions, countries, cities and states. Each site operates independently providing around-the-clock local news coverage, global & business updates, RSS feeds, and news releases.
Established in 1999, each News.Net site specializes in local news, weather, international headlines, business and finance reports. The News.Net directory of sites covers every major region, country and city around the world, as well as U.S. states and industry sectors. Each independently-operated portal is networked throughout the social media spectrum and is administered by Mainstream Media EC on behalf of Big News Network.
Both countries are focused on a proposed China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. The corridor is a collection of roads, rail links, and gas and oil pipelines going from Pakistan's southern seaport of Gwadar to southwestern China.
It is part of China's wider vision to revive the ancient Silk Road, and join Asia to Europe via road and sea links, in an effort to bring back the glory of China from the times of the Han Dynasty.
Sartaj Aziz, economic adviser to Pakistan's Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, said he hopes the new investment will give his country's dwindling economy a much needed boost.
"This investment over an eight- to 10-year period of $4 billion a year, would certainly step up the investment rate, GDP ration as well as growth rate, which has somehow stagnated between 3 and 4 percent for the last seven, eight years," Aziz said.
However, security concerns and instability in Afghanistan will also be on the agenda.
A separatist insurgency in Pakistan's restive Baluchistan province and Islamist militancy elsewhere have hampered development.
Xi's trip, originally scheduled for last year, was postponed due to security concerns resulting from an anti-government protest.
China's ambassador to Pakistan, Sun Weidong, said during an interview with Chinese state television his country has established a joint agreement with Pakistan to protect their interests.
Sun also said that Pakistan will set up a special security force to protect Chinese personnel and ensure smooth implementation of the projects linked to the economic corridor.
President Xi, during his visit, is expected to discuss Chinese concerns that Muslim separatists in China's western Xinjiang region may be getting training and support from militants in Pakistan's lawless tribal areas.
The Chinese leader will meet with Pakistan's military leadership. That meeting is expected to include a briefing on the progress of Pakistani military operations in the tribal region.
They are also likely to discuss the stabilization of neighboring Afghanistan, as China is concerned that continuing violence in Afghanistan can hinder plans for the economic future of the region.
Meanwhile, for several days before Xi's arrival, Pakistan's state TV ran anthems aggrandizing Pakistan's friendship with China. As soon as the Chinese president entered Pakistan's airspace, he received an escort of six fighter jets from the Pakistan Air Force.
On his way from the airport, Xi was greeted with his own giant images, plastered on banners and posters all over Islamabad. Chinese and Pakistani flags hung side by sie from lampposts.
During his visit, Xi will receive Pakistan's highest civilian award, the "Nishan-e-Pakistan," and address a joint session of Pakistan's parliament.
Pakistan often calls China its "all-weather" friend, as opposed to the United States, which is often accused of having a relationship with Pakistan based on individual issues and transactions.
Xi is accompanied by first lady Madam Peng Liyuan, senior ministers and Communist Party officials, as well as CEOs of various Chinese companies. 
