2015-04~06
http://www.theshillongtimes.com/2015/06/24/taliban-offensive/

Taliban offensive | The Shillong Times
The Taliban have proved themselves to be enemies of Pakistan on Afghan soil as well as their own. Their attack on the parliament in Kabul proved pretty well successful. Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and the chief of the Pakistan army have not yet succeeded in arresting leaders of the Taliban central command and they are demonstrating their striking power in western Pakistan. Sirajuddin Haqqani is one of the main allies of the Taliban. Pakistan’s talks with the Taliban in Qatar to effect a reconciliation proved abortive. The Taliban’s annual summer offensive continues. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani has drawn flak for making significant concessions to Islamabad without deriving any benefit for his side. Afghan politics is troubled by ethnic and religious differences which make the recent attack on the Kabul parliament all the more ominous. Pakistan for its part is hamstrung by internal problems which make it difficult for it to be overly aggressive
against Islamist forces like the Taliban and the Haqqanis. The jihadis threaten the Islamabad establishment and weaken the capacity of the Pakistan army to tackle the Taliban. Besides, Pakistan is betting on Afghanistan looking to it for protection when the US withdraws its residual forces from the latter country.
Pakistani generals should be faced with a global alliance against fundamentalism. Russia is poisoned by Afghan heroin which kills a large number of its young people. Islamists present a threat to Central Asian countries. China is disturbed by Uighur jihadists fighting in Northern Afghanistan. Iran is endangered in a similar way. India and Turkey cannot afford to be indifferent to the developments. It is not unwise on the part of India to leave to the US the responsibility of unravelling the imbroglio in the Afghan region.
Question: Will any move to curb the voting rights of ‘outsiders’ in Meghalaya be the right step?