2015-04~06
http://www.tolonews.com/en/afghanistan/20108-taliban-refocuses-on-helmand-as-groups-summer-offensive-continues

Taliban Refocuses on Helmand as Group's Summer Offensive Continues
Despite the Taliban's aggressive start to the fighting season this year, catching Afghan officials by surprise with their push into traditionally secure provinces in northern Afghanistan, recent weeks have seen militant activity re-gravitate toward the more familiar battleground of southern Helmand province.
According to local officials, the Taliban has launched a major summer offensive in the Kajaki and Musa Qala districts of Helmand. "The war continues in all the northern districts of Helmand. However, Musa Qala and Kajaki districts have witnessed fierce fighting and threats are much higher because major offensives," Helmand Provincial Council member Maji Akhondzada said on Saturday.
Musa Qala and Kajaki are, in particular, strategic assets for the Taliban as they have served as a bases of operations in the area. "Many parts of these districts have been under control of the armed opponents for a long time," Helmand Provincial Council Chair Fazel Bari Fayaz said. "The opponents keep arms depots, prisons and even courts in these areas, including the military commission through which they coordinate and plan their operations," he added.
Meanwhile, provincial officials maintain that the Afghan security forces have been effective in thwarting attacks and pushing the insurgents back. "Last night the insurgents attacked some parts of Kajaki, Takht-e-Pol and some regions of Musa Qala, but the Afghan forces were completely ready to confront them," said Omar Zuwak, a spokesman for the provincial governor's office.
Reports from the field indicate a large number of foreign fighters have bolstered the ranks of the Taliban and intensified the fighting in the area. The Ministry of Defense (MoD) has estimated around 30 percent of all militant casualties are foreign fighters. .
"Chechen, Arabs and Uighur militants are fighting alongside the Taliban fighters," MoD spokesman Dawlat Waziri told TOLOnews. "The foreign militants are quite professional at war and they support the Taliban during the fights and provide them financial resources including military trainings."
Despite an overwhelming sense of anxiety among the public regarding the present security conditions in the country, Waziri asserts that the Taliban has failed to capture even just one percent of Afghanistan's territory.
The MoD says Afghan forces are currently conducting 16 different military operations against militants in 14 provinces.

 Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames.
