2015-04~06
http://muslimlink.ca/index.php?option=com_k2&view=item&id=2083:what-if-a-million-muslim-canadians-wrote-letters-for-huseyin-celil&Itemid=425

What if a Million Muslim Canadians Wrote Letters for Huseyin Celil?
Have you ever heard of Huseyin Celil? He is a Muslim Canadian from China's Uyghur minority who is currently imprisoned with a life sentence in China. His young family lives in Hamilton, Ontario.
Amnesty International is encouraging people of conscience to write letters, sign petitions, and engage with social media to raise awareness about his case.
"Huseyin Celil is a member of China's Uighur minority and a human rights activist. In 2001, he fled China after being in jail for a time for supporting the religious and political rights of the Uighur people. The United Nations recognized him as a refugee.
Huseyin Celil (pronounced "Je-lil") arrived in Canada with his wife Kamila and their child in October of 2001. After they settled, two more boys were born and Huseyin became a Canadian citizen. In March 2006, when Kamila was pregnant with their fourth child, the family travelled to Uzbekistan to visit her family. That's when things started going wrong. The police in China found out that Huseyin was in Uzbekistan, and asked the police there to arrest Huseyin. They did, and then sent him to China.
The Chinese authorities accused Huseyin of offences related to his activities in support of Uighur rights. They held Huseyin in a secret place. They gave him no access to a lawyer, to his family, or to Canadian officials. They threatened him and forced him to sign a confession. They refused to recognize Huseyin's status as a Canadian citizen, and they did not allow Canadian officials to attend his trial. It was not conducted fairly, and resulted in a sentence of life in prison in China, where he remains today.
Huseyin has spent much of his time in solitary confinement. He lacks healthy food and is in poor health. His mother and sister, who live in China, are occasionally allowed to visit him."
Currently Amnesty International is running a petition asking the Chinese goverment to provide Huseyin Celil with a new trial in full compliance with international standards, to ensure he receives regular visits from his family and Canadian consular officials, and to ensure he receives adequate exercise and prompt attention to all of his medical needs. It demands that if he is not provided with a retrial in full compliance with international standards, then Huseyin Celil must be released without delay or conditions on his freedom.
I was surprised to see how few signatures were on this petition, only over 7,000. There are supposedly over a milliion Muslims in Canada- men, women, and children. What if we all took some positive action to help reunite this Canadian family?
Muslim Link is encouraging its readers to learn more about the Celil case. For those who wish to take action, you could consider signing the online petition, writing a letter to your local Member of Parliament and even Prime Minister Harper to demand that Celil's case continue to be pursued by the Canadian government. You can also engage on social media by sharing a photo of yourself expressing your message of hope for Huseyin Celil and his family. If you add the hashtag #LettersSaveLives with your photo it will be included in Amnesty International's online photo gallery.
To learn more about Huseyin Celil's case and to sign Amnesty International's online petition visit www.amnesty.ca/celil
To find your local Member of Parliament to discuss this case visit this site.
Fighting for Chinese Uyghur Rights in Ottawa (Muslim Link, Mar. 2014)
PM continues to press China on behalf of jailed Burlington man (The Hamilton Spectator, Feb. 2012)
Chelby Marie Daigle is Muslim Link’s Editor in Chief and Coordinator. Under her direction, Muslim Link adopted its Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Policy so that the paper strives to reflect the complexity of the region’s Muslim communities. As Coordinator, she works to build relationships with local Muslim and mainstream organizations and manages the paper's social media and events listing. She also works closely with the Publisher to develop operational policies for the paper. Chelby currently works as the facilitator of a program for immigrant and refugee young women and as an administrator supporting racialized communities to inform policy in a municipal institution. Find her on Twitter @ChelbyDaigle