2015-04~06
http://www.economist.com/news/world-week/21652359-politics-week

Politics this week | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
Ireland became the first country in the world to legalise gay marriage via the popular vote in a referendum. Voters backed a change to the constitution to extend marriage rights to same-sex couples by 62% to 38%. The measure was carried in all but one of Ireland’s constituencies. Homosexuality was illegal in Ireland until as recently as 1993.
Andrzej Duda of the conservative Law and Justice (PiS) party defeated the incumbent, Bronislaw Komorowski, of the centrist Civic Platform party, in an upset victory in Poland’s presidential election. The PiS is also ahead in the polls for the general election due in the autumn. Liberals fear the party will return Poland to the atmosphere of nationalist paranoia that prevailed under the previous PiS government. See article.
Spain’s regional elections saw large gains for two upstart parties, the left-wing Podemos movement and the liberals of Ciudadanos. However, fragmented left-wing parties will face difficult negotiations to form coalition governments in most of Spain’s regions. See article.
Denmark’s prime minister, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, called a general election for June 18th. Her centre-left coalition has been in office since 2011, but an anti-immigrant party is polling well.
David Cameron outlined his new government’s agenda in a queen’s speech to Parliament, the first from a Conservative majority government since 1996. As promised, a referendum on Britain remainingin the EU was included. Mr Cameron met Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission, this week to set out his stall for renegotiating Britain’s membership. See article.
The FARC, a leftist guerrilla army that has been fighting Colombia’s government for 50 years, suspended a ceasefire it had declared in December. The war has escalated in recent weeks. Colombia’s president, Juan Manuel Santos, ordered the resumption of air raids after the FARC killed 11 soldiers in April; 27 FARC guerrillas were then killed by Colombian attacks. Despite the fighting, both sides resumed peace talks in Havana. See article. 
Leopoldo López, an imprisoned leader of Venezuela’s opposition, started a hunger strike. He is demanding that the regime led by Nicolás Maduro free political prisoners, end censorship and hold elections. Mr López was accused of inciting violence during protests against the government in February 2014.
At least 250,000 people attended a ceremony in San Salvador, the capital of El Salvador, to celebrate the Catholic church’s beatification of Archbishop Oscar Romero, who was murdered in 1980 after speaking out against the country’s then right-wing regime.
Israel bombed targets in Gaza after a rocket was fired from the strip into Israel. Hamas, the Islamist group that governs Gaza, arrested three members of a militant group on suspicion of firing the rocket. Meanwhile Amnesty, a human-rights group, released a report accusing Hamas of abducting, torturing and murdering civilians in Gaza during a bout of fighting last year.
It emerged that Tony Blair is to step down next month as the envoy of the “Quartet”—the UN, America, the European Union and Russia—a job that seeks to secure peace between Israel and the Palestinians.
Libya’s internationally recognised prime minister, Abdullah al-Thinni, survived an attempted assassination after he left a parliamentary session in Tobruk. Gunmen in cars opened fire on his convoy, wounding one bodyguard.
Hopes of a negotiated end to protests in Burundi against plans by the president, Pierre Nkurunziza, to run for a third term were dampened after an opposition leader was killed. The continuing violence threatens parliamentary elections that are due to be held on June 5th.
Elections in Ethiopia, Africa’s second-most-populous nation, proceeded peacefully but were expected to deliver a preordained result: the re-election of the ruling party. See article.
After months of manoeuvring the American Senate passed a bill that would grant Barack Obama Trade Promotion Authority and guarantee up-or-down votes in Washington to fast-track trade deals. Some Democrats held out against the bill despite the addition of amendments to provide support for American workers. The bill now heads to the House.
Nebraska’s legislature abolished the death penalty in the state, overturning a veto from the governor. Nebraska is deeply conservative, but a growing number of Republicans have taken up the cause of banning the death penalty, arguing that it does not deter murderers, is more expensive than life imprisonment (thanks to costly lengthy appeals), and is at odds with Christian morality. See article.
The Obama administration published new rules to protect America’s waterways and wetlands. Republicans and some farmers reckon the measures represent a big expansion of federal powers and are gearing up for a legal fight.
A heatwave killed more than 1,370 people in India in a week. More than a 1,000 died in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh. Hundreds succumb to heat every year in India, but this year is especially bad.
Thousands of migrants, many of them Rohingya from Myanmar, remained adrift at sea awaiting rescue in the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea. Thailand prepared to convene a regional meeting to discuss the crisis.
Security forces in the far western Chinese region of Xinjiang have reportedly broken up 181 terrorist groups since they launched a crackdown on extremist violence a year ago. Chinese officials often blame violent incidents in Xinjiang on ethnic Uighur terrorists linked to jihadists abroad. Uighur exiles say the terrorist label is unjustified.
Peru agreed to study a proposal involving co-operation with Brazil and China to build a railway stretching 5,300km (3,300 miles) from Peru’s Pacific coast to the Atlantic shore of Brazil. China’s prime minister Li Keqiang discussed the idea with the Peruvian president, Ollanta Humala, during a trip that also took him to Brazil.
Blue-collar men in rich countries are in trouble. They must learn to adapt
The long-term consequences of China’s coming stockmarket correction are the ones to fear
It is the best way of stopping their country’s drift towards autocracy
The arrest of officials should be the first stage in a thorough cleansing of a discredited...
Many cities are losing inhabitants. Better to manage decline than try to stop it
Foreign policy is a hubristic disaster and the economy is on the slide, but that won’t stop the...
Farmers have been raiding groundwater to survive a four-year drought. Better solutions are needed
The Lone Star State would do well to plan for floods
In Texas, politicians line themselves up against the state’s big cities
Nebraska’s ban is another sign of the decline in support for the death penalty
A wave of people and spending is about to hit the Jersey Shore
A centrist Democrat sees a chance to move beyond Senate gridlock
With cautious backing from business, a political pugilist challenges the establishment
Latin America fails to protect the rights and lives of its teenage girls
Badly educated men in rich countries have not adapted well to trade, technology or feminism
As China asserts itself as a naval and air power, and as America responds, the risks of...
Will Japan lend its muscle to China’s new Asian infrastructure bank?
A new spat over Japan’s wartime history draws in the United Nations
The Taliban are waging a fierce new offensive in the north
The fate of a southern politician holds a warning for India’s prime minister
Local passion is flaring, but China’s fears of secessionism are overblown
The capital and its neighbouring areas are told to co-operate more
A fuel crisis in Nigeria highlights the desperate need for subsidy reform
Islamic state has made some gains, but is far from winning
A tiny sultanate that is not afraid to stand alone
Binyamin Netanyahu is taking an unhealthy interest in media regulation
Vladimir Putin concocts a new story on Ukraine, leaving the West wondering what he is up to
Voters long scared of the far right have grown bored of the centre
Nicolas Sarkozy is back, and wants to redub his party à l’américaine
Voters angered by corruption split a two-party system into a four-party one
Some parties may fade, but Europe’s populists are here to stay
Britain’s stall in productivity is more serious than that of any rich-world peer. A closer look...
Even if Britain votes to leave the EU, its European migrants may stick around
A new subsidy may make it even harder to get a place at nursery
Wealthy investors are branching out into an evergreen new asset class
Would that Labour heeded the painful messages of its most promising wannabe leader
A growing number of cities will have to plan for drastically smaller populations
A robotic sewing machine could throw garment workers in low-cost countries out of a job
Technology is finally making strides in reducing the need to remember lots of complicated p@s$w0rd$
How to prevent Egypt’s enlargement of the Suez Canal making it easier for Red Sea creatures to...
Using glass to make electricity out of sunlight could turn buildings and cars into their own power...
Proposed new networks promise ultra high-speed connections for mobile users
How technology is changing the passenger cabin for whatever class you fly
Executive jets faster than the speed of sound are ready to fly off the drawing board
Want to be different? There are now many handset brands to choose from, besides the ubiquitous...
The lithium-ion battery is steadily improving, but new research aims to turbocharge the technology
The pioneer of small satellites is laying plans for the infrastructure and services needed for...
The arrest and indictment of FIFA officials may be a turning-point for football’s scandal-hit...
What a giant deal says about America’s media and internet industries
Why the Chinese will increasingly set the trends in gadgetry
Bloated costs and falling profits threaten the future of North Sea oil
Jeff Bezos is using ideas from his online business to revitalise a venerable paper
Small data from patients at home will mean big cost savings
Choosing a strategy is a lot more complex for companies than it used to be
Despite the foreboding, a deal still appears the most likely outcome
Regulation is helping the very firms it is designed to tame
Never mind planets. The solar system’s icy moons may well be the best places to hunt for aliens
Children exposed to several languages are better at seeing through others’ eyes
Syria’s famous ruined Roman city has meant many things to many people
The best moments from a small party in the south of France
John Nash, a mathematical genius, died on May 23rd, aged 86
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more