2015-04~06
http://www.lidtime.com/afghanistan-pakistan-officer-involved-in-parliament-attack/

Afghanistan: Pakistan officer involved in parliament attack – WALB.com, South - LidTime.com
The parliament is supposed to be the most secure building in the country.
Both districts border the provincial capital, Kunduz, the country’s fifth-largest city.
The Taliban is taking bold steps not only to reassert itself after the departure of NATO forces, but perhaps more importantly, to stave off the rising influence of the Islamic State among jihadis in Afghanistan.
Today, he stated that the level of trust is higher and the Pak-Afghan relationship is qualitatively transforming – underpinned by intensive political engagement, enhanced security and counter-terrorism co-operation, deepened trade and commercial interaction and improved regional co-operation. Sadly, the Pakistan government has not delivered on this promise yet.
Pakistani officials, however, say the recent surge in Taliban violence in Afghanistan represents the “biggest impediment” in the way of peace.
But, it’s unusual for Pakistan government’s adviser to go public with details of the country’s role in facilitating the contacts. In the past they had attacked the Presidential Palace, the USA and Indian embassies and the Intercontinental Hotel in Kabul. China is disturbed by Uighur jihadists fighting in Northern Afghanistan. Then a group of fighters stormed the building – only to be cut down by an alert security guard who cut down with single burst at least three of the attackers. There are also a group who want to make peace with the Kabul government and lay down their arms.
He stressed that the Afghan Taliban must respect the mandate given by the people of Afghanistan to those who are now in power after the Afghanistan elections a year ago. According to him, our spy agency may not be able to deal with the Afghan policy and suggested the Prime Minister to himself supervise the Afghan policy. One of the grave mistakes the American-led troops committed was their excessive emphasis on a military solution, while reconstruction and creation of infrastructure, and building of institutions, were pushed to the back seat.
In Washington, State Department spokesman John Kirby said the US condemned the attack, which he said “demonstrates the gulf between the Taliban and the people of Afghanistan, and shows blatant disregard for human life and for democracy”. The fighters come from Pakistan, Uzbekistan, and Tajikstan. “We are pursuing them and the gun battle is still ongoing”, he added.
His ears ringing, it took the Afghan army staff sergeant several seconds to realize that the converted shipping container he and other soldiers were standing in was filled with dust and smoke.
He said about 150,000 residents of the district were trapped by the fighting. The source explained the Taliban are concerned that if they are seen as confined to the south and east this might eventually split the country in the long run.
Sign up for our newsletter and get latest news and updates delivered to your inbox.