2015-04~06
http://studentsforliberty.org/blog/2015/04/10/sfl-at-the-university-of-virginia-hosts-rebiya-kadeer/

Students at the University of Virginia Host Rebiya Kadeer | Students For Liberty
This was written by guest authors, Students For Liberty Campus Coordinator, Sam Teixeira, and co-chair of the Students for Individual Liberty Executive Board at the University of Virginia, Grace Charlton.
Wednesday, March 25th, Students for Individual Liberty at the University of Virginia hosted Rebiya Kadeer.  Ms. Kadeer is a native Uyghur from the East Turkistan region of China, also known as the Xinjiang autonomous region.  She was a successful entrepreneur and businesswoman before speaking out against the human rights abuses of the Chinese government, which resulted in her arrest and imprisonment for nearly six years—two of which were in solitary confinement.  She negotiated her transfer to the United States and has since been nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize.
Through her translator and confidant Alim Seytoff, Ms. Kadeer described to our group the systematic human rights abuses against the Uyghur people.  She said that East Turkistan “is a police state,” with tanks, armored cars, and heavily armed soldiers patrolling at all hours.  Ms. Kadeer also explained that China tests some of its nuclear and chemical weapons above ground in East Turkistan, leaving many Uyghur deformed and diseased.
Ms. Kadeer was a polarizing figure on campus.  Several UVA students from her region of China attended the event and were very excited to see her.  They
took pictures afterwards and talked with her at length. However, several UVA students from other regions of China also attended the event and attempted to discredit Ms. Kadeer.  They asked questions implying that she was linked to terrorist groups and drilled her on the historical precedence of the land.   One student in particular made a prolonged statement about terrorism before Mr. Seytoff, interrupted and diffused the situation.  The room was tense for much of the hour-long question and answer session.
Nevertheless, at dinner she told us she cannot fault the Chinese students who do not believe her story because they are essentially brainwashed by the Chinese government’s propaganda.   Although the FBI has been involved, the Chinese embassy continues to harass Ms. Kadeer in the United States.  Chinese agents follow her around and take pictures, and on two occasions, cars rented by the Chinese Embassy have crashed into hers.
Furthermore, Ms. Kadeer and Mr. Seytoff explained that the Chinese government uses terrorism as a justification for its human rights abuses in the region.  Chinese propaganda promotes the idea the Uyghur harbor terrorists from the Middle East, but Ms. Kadeer believes that the Chinese government is exploiting her Muslim faith and its association with terrorism.  She told us that before 9/11, the Chinese narrative against East Turkistan was similar to its narrative against Tibet, but afterwards, it was aimed more specifically at religion, language, and ethnicity.  When we asked her what it feels like to be called a terrorist, she answered simply that it happens everywhere she goes, seeming as though she has become numb to the term.
While Ms. Kadeer’s struggle is very similar to that of the Dalai Lama, her story is not well known.  I encourage you all to visit her website, uyghuramerican.org, to read the documents and reports that Ms. Kadeer and the Uyghur American Association have released to dispute Chinese propaganda.   I would also recommend you read the book about her life story entitled, “Dragon Fighter: One Woman’s Epic Struggle for Peace With China.”
This piece solely expresses the opinion of the author and not necessarily the organization as a whole. Students For Liberty is committed to facilitating a broad dialogue for liberty, representing a variety of opinions. If you’re a student interested in presenting your perspective on this blog, visit our guest submissions page. Like what you read here? You can sign up for a weekly digest of the SFL blog and subscribe for a weekly update on SFL’s events, leadership programs, and resources.
Trust in Mother Market… Don’t Support IP Law’s Protection of Greed - @AlexisEsneault on #IntellectualProperty #tlot https://t.co/QqNaZpCSBg
#MondayMotivation Africa's rapid growth is down to industry and free markets https://t.co/H03lHqIRei by @Telegraph https://t.co/6coyYXvg2v
New report includes full-length feature on #ISFLC16 & a look at @ESFLiberty's growth: https://t.co/Vhc18klZCK #tlot https://t.co/JrfOXcAKkH
RT @JaredMeyer10: Here's what European students told me was holding them back at the @ESFLiberty conference in Prague https://t.co/DPhRx4BU…