2015-01~03
http://www.scmp.com/news/asia/article/1745684/four-uygurs-facing-extradition-china-terror-charges-go-trial

Four Uygurs facing extradition to China on terror charges go on trial | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Four Uygur-speaking foreigners facing possible extradition to China went on trial in Jakarta yesterday for alleged involvement in terrorism activities.
The four men: Ahmet Bozoglan, 27, Abdul Basit Tuzev, 23, Abdullah, 28, and Ahmet Mahmud, 20, were found carrying fake Turkish passports last year.
The eight defendants were indicted under the 2003 Antiterrorism Law for "having an intention" to join the militant Mujahidin Indonesia Timur headed by Santoso, one of Indonesia's most-wanted terror suspects.
Police say the four foreign suspects do not speak Turkish among themselves but instead use Uygur, the language of a Muslim ethnic minority group in Xinjiang where scores of violent incidents linked to separatism have occurred in recent years.
They went on trial as Turks, even though Turkey's embassy in Jakarta does not recognise their citizenship.
Days after Indonesia arrested the four Uygur terrorism suspects in September, China dispatched three intelligence officers to ask authorities to hand them over.
While Indonesia initially demurred, China has apparently secured a preliminary agreement for the men to be returned after their trial, according to Irfan Idris, a senior official at Indonesia's anti-terrorism agency.
China's top security chief Meng Jianzhu has previously hinted at efforts to repatriate suspects when he attended an international meeting of security agency chiefs in June in Russia.
"Some countries have already sent back a batch of terrorists that were based outside of China," Meng said.
The eight defendants are accused of being part of an "evil conspiracy" to aid and abet acts of terrorism, allegedly by providing financial and material assistance to Santoso's group.
They were arrested while on their way to Poso Regency on Sulawesi Island, known to be a magnet for Islamist radicals following bloody clashes there between Christians and Muslims between 1998 and 2001 that left about 1,000 people dead.