2015-01~03
http://www.news.com.au/world/how-charlie-hebdo-terrorist-attacks-in-paris-could-affect-the-world/story-fndir2ev-1227184562300

How Charlie Hebdo terrorist attacks in Paris could affect the world
1:27 AMCharlotte Willis AN Aussie exchange student is among those trapped in Brussels in the wake of a series of blasts that have killed at least 34 people.
1:21 AMCorey Sinclair, Victoria Craw LIVE updates: Eyewitnesses have spoken of their horror at seeing blood and bodies destroyed by bombs one worker believes was planted in luggage.
0:41 AMVictoria Craw and James Matthey FRENCH President Francois Hollande has called for a blunt response to the terrorist attacks in Brussels.
A Malaysian team is heading to South Africa to inspect a piece of debris found along the coast to check if it's from missing flight MH370.
22:25 PMCharles Miranda in London ONCE known as the home of the European Commission and NATO, Brussels is now being seen as the home of jihadist forces.
22:20 PMRobyn Ironside National Travel Writer ISRAELI-style security could become a feature at Australian and other western airports in the wake of the Brussels bombings, a counter-terrorism expert has suggested.
21:21 PMVictoria Craw AN INDIAN actress hits out at those photoshopping faces onto porn films, saying those who are sharing it had not embarrassed her.
21:12 PMBy Lauren Farrow And Heru Rahadi Already known for its traffic woes, Jakarta has become even more clogged with taxi drivers taking to the streets to protest against Uber.
Thousands of PEGIDA (Patriotic Europeans Against the Islamization of the West ) protesters took to the streets of Dresden on Monday in what have now become weekly gatherings. Waving German national and regional flags and holding banners and placards eulog
World changing ... world leaders including Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Malian President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, French President Francois Hollande and German Chancellor Angela Merkel march during the Unity rally in Paris on Nanuary 11. Picture: AFP PHOTO/ ERIC FEFERBERG
WILL the terrorist atrocities in Paris over the past week change the world?
The mass rallies throughout the western world held in the wake of the Charlie Hebdo and supermarket attacks suggest we are at a pivotal moment. Never before has the world seen footage like that of the world leaders walking with arms linked in the streets of Paris.
But a year from now, will we look back at the response to the attacks and see anything that changed, or just more talk, slogans and hacktivism?
Writing in The Huffington Post, Jack Miles argues that terrorist acts with bigger body counts, including the Madrid train bombings of 2004 (191 people killed) and the recent massacre at a school in Pakistan (145 people killed) did not lead to lasting changes.
“If the much smaller Paris atrocities do come to seem a watershed, it will be because, small as they are by headcount, they somehow functioned as the proverbial last straw,” he stated.
Others have suggested that people have been mobilised this time because they see that the terrorists killed people for speaking and drawing their mind.
The fact that the attacks happened in France — a country synonymous for many with ideals of freedom and human rights — has deepened the sense of outrage, it has been suggested.
Here are some ways the world may have changed forever because of the Paris attacks.
Calling for tighter controls ... Spanish Interior Minister Jorge Fernandez Diaz. Picture: AFP PHOTO / MATTHIEU ALEXANDRESource:AFP
Up for discussion ... a meeting in February will discuss tighter controls on Europeans borders.Source:Supplied
EUROPEAN nations have already pushed for tighter anti-terror controls including an EU-wide database of passenger travel information, increased internet surveillance and even changes to the Schengen border-free travel area.
Spain’s Interior Minister Jorge Fernandez Diaz is but one MP to call for new border checks, saying existing mobility arrangements were “facilitating the movements (of jihadists) to any country and also to our country”.
Many of the mooted changes are not new initiatives, but have stalled for years in the face of resistance from some member states in the 28-nation bloc, which jealously guard their intelligence.
An EU summit planned for February 12 will be dedicated to discussing the measures.
Warnings of a ‘fifth column’ ... UKIP leader Nigel Farage. Picture: AP Photo/ Stefan Rousseau/PASource:AP
Claiming vindication ... French Front National party president Marine Le Pen. Picture: Patrick Aventurier/Getty ImagesSource:Getty Images
EXTREME right groups have made significant headway in European parliaments over the past decade, and look set to benefit from the recent events in France.
The fledgling German group that calls itself Patriotic Europeans Against the Islamisation of the West, or PEGIDA, drew its largest ever crowd at its weekly rally in Dresden on Monday night, after organisers declared it a tribute to the victims of the French attacks.
Reports of the size of the crowd differed — some sources stated 25,000, while other claimed 40,000.
The rising far-right in France and other European countries has been driven by an anti-immigration, anti-Islam message. In France, National Front leader Marine Le Pen seized upon the Charlie Hebdo attack just hours after it happened, suggesting it was a vindication of her party’s xenophobic stance.
The largest European country to go to the polls this year is the UK, with pundits predicting a significant swing for the far right UKIP (United Kingdom Independence Party) at the May 7 election.
UKIP leader Nigel Farage has already been accused of exploiting the Paris massacre, telling a radio show that “gross multiculturalism” had led to the development of a “fifth column” within the UK and other European nations.
Cotnuining tensions ... a file picture of Uyghur woman protesting before a group of paramilitary police in Urumqi. Picture: AP Photo/Ng Han GuanSource:News Limited
CHINA banned the burqa in Urumqi, the capital of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, on Saturday.
Xinhua reported that the regional legislature voted to ban the wearing of burqas in public areas “(in) an effort to curb growing extremism that forced Uighur women to abandon their colourful traditional dress and wear black burqas”.
Xinjiang is home to China’s nine-million-strong mostly Muslim ethnic minority.
Violence linked to Xinjiang has intensified over the past year, with at least 200 people killed in a series of clashes which Beijing has blamed on “religious extremists”, “separatists” and “terrorists”.
A severe crackdown in recent months has resulted in hundreds of arrests and around 50 executions and death sentences publicly announced since June.
Rights groups argue that harsh police treatment of the Uighur minority, as well as government campaigns against religious practices such as the wearing of veils, have led to violence.
The freedom to outrage ... The latest issue of French satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo. Photo by Dan Kitwood/Getty Images)Source:Getty Images
THE Australian government faced calls this week to bolster free speech amid concern that Charlie Hebdo could not be published here under existing race discrimination laws.
Human Rights Commissioner Tim Wilson said despite the cartoons being embraced across the world as a symbol of Western liberties, they would not survive the censor in Australia.
“Around the world, if you’re going to say you believe in free speech and that people should have the freedom to offend or insult somebody, then the solution cannot be censorship,” he told the ABC.
“That is what we have in Australia today. We have a law that makes it unlawful to offend or insult somebody.
“So people are either being hypocrites when they say ‘Je suis Charlie’ and saying they defend these people’s right to free speech, or they actually believe in free speech and recognise that laws that make it unlawful to insult or offend people are censorious and would see that Charlie Hebdo would be censored in Australia,” he said.
Several senators backed the calls for renewed debate on free speech.
Deputy Prime Minister Warren Truss ruled out any move to change the law. “We should be bold and speak out about the things we want to speak out about but we can do that without changing section 18C (of the Act),” he said.
Gathering numbers ... Monday’s rally of the group Patriotic Europeans against the Islamisation of the West, or PEGIDA, in Dresden. Picture: AP Photo/Petr David JosekSource:AP
MUSLIMS are feeling the heat of a fierce backlash following the attack.
An official who keeps track of Islamophobic attacks in France said there were 60 incidents — attacks and threats — in the six days since the attack.
Abdallah Zekri, head of the National Observatory Against Islamophobia, said 26 places of worship around France were attacked by firebombs, gunshots or pig heads, with a mosque in Le Mans hit with four grenades.
In the Netherlands, Muslim groups and the government met Friday and said they plan to register anti-Muslim incidents. A burning object was thrown at a mosque in Vlaardingen, on the outskirts of Rotterdam.
“Everyone has this uncomfortable feeling, a sense of being threatened — Muslims because they are afraid to be stigmatised and that they will be attacked too,” said Imade Annouri, a Green parliamentarian of Belgium’s regional legislature of Flanders and an expert on integration issues.
TellMAMA, a British group that tracks anti-Muslim attacks, reported 50-60 cases of specific online threats to individuals last weekend.
“The sheer volume is unbelievable,” said the organisation’s director, Fiyaz Mughal, who fears virtual assaults could spur real ones in the street.
Mohamed Ali Adraoui, a fellow at the European University Institute, suggested that hatred of Islam could morph into an assault on a mosque, in France or elsewhere.
“If you can do that in Charlie Hebdo offices, you can do it in a mosque,” he said.
A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. Find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out.
News Limited Copyright © . All times on this site are AEDT (GMT +11).