2015-01~03
http://asia.nikkei.com/Politics-Economy/International-Relations/Beijing-warns-of-Islamic-State-influence-in-Xinjiang

Fighting terrorism: Beijing warns of Islamic State influence in Xinjiang- Nikkei Asian Review
BEIJING -- Ethnic minority Uighur separatists are joining Islamic State forces before coming back to China to engage in terrorism, a top Chinese official told a news conference Tuesday. Violence has been intensifying in the region, but some fear the government's crackdown may fuel a vicious cycle.
     Zhang Chunxian, the Communist Party head for the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, commented that extremist groups like Islamic State are all over the world, and argued that Xinjiang cannot remain uninvolved.
     His remarks momentarily silenced the nearly 200 journalists from China and abroad in attendance. This marked the first time that a top official had singled out the Middle Eastern militant group for criticism in a public forum.
     Xinjiang has been experiencing an outbreak of violence resulting in many casualties. On Feb. 17, a clash between Uighurs and police forces in Aksu left 17 people dead. The attackers reportedly wrestled away guns from a police officer and engaged in a shootout with police. Several days earlier, in Hotan, a Uighur youth grabbed a police officer and detonated a bomb in a suicide attack, causing several dozen casualties.
     Until recently, violence by Uighurs had typically involved knives or other everyday items. But recent incidents have been more brutal, including organized attacks on police and the use of explosive devices. Public security officials suspect the involvement of Uighur separatist groups with ties to Islamic State.
     An increasingly alarmed Beijing is seeking to forcibly suppress what it calls these "violent elements." Last May, it declared a war against terrorism permitting extralegal measures and even mobilized the military, fueling local fears. According to Uighur residents of Hotan, housewives attending a prayer meeting at a private home were shot by mistake, and a youth was killed simply for disregarding a traffic signal.
     The National People's Congress is deliberating an anti-terrorism law that would allow the government to arrest as a "terrorist element" anyone promoting separatism or ethnic conflict. The bill, expected to be passed within the year, is aimed at clamping down on discontent of all kinds in the name of fighting terrorism.
     Some 5,000 people attempt to illegally exit China every month to escape such oppression. Uighurs frequently leave secretly through Yunnan Province and the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, which border Southeast Asia. More than 300 extremists with a grudge against Beijing have reportedly joined Islamic State.
     The decline in public order is hurting the economic development Xinjiang relies on. Travel is a key industry in the region, which is home to part of the old Silk Road and boasts a wealth of tourism resources. But the number of visitors dropped nearly 5% in 2014, falling for the first time since 2009, which saw major riots in the capital of Urumqi.
You have limited access. To enjoy full access, subscribe now.
Your subscription renewal has not been processed.Please update your payment information and enjoy full access.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week

Your subscription renewal could not be processed. Please update your payment information to continue enjoying the Nikkei Asian Review.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week


 Nikkei Asian Review is the only publication that brings you Insight about Asia, from the inside out.
 XXcontractNameXX has enabled you free full access to Nikkei Asian Review.
