2015-01~03
http://www.arabianbusiness.com/china-said-jail-muslim-man-for-growing-beard-587414.html

China said to jail Muslim man for growing a beard - Culture & Society - ArabianBusiness.com
We can only send passwords to the e-mail address you're registered with. If you can not remember it, or have any other problem, please e-mail registration@arabianbusiness.com
A Chinese Muslim man has reportedly been sentenced to six years’ jail for growing a beard and “picking quarrels and causing trouble”.
The man’s wife also was jailed for two years for admitting to wearing a veil, state-run newspaper Xinjiang Economic Daily said.
The sentences were handed down in Kashgar, in China’s western Xinjiang region where almost half of the population is Muslim, primarily Sunni Uighurs.
The Uighur man had reportedly grown a beard since 2010 and encouraged his wife to wear veils to cover herself. While such dress is not explicitly outlawed in China, there have been campaigns in Kashgar to ban “outdated” religious dress, online news site Quartz reported.
Officials have passed similar bans in other cities: fully covering robes for women are illegal in the provincial capital of Urumqi and neither men with beards or women with headscarves can ride buses in the city of Karamay, according to Quartz.
A spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress advocacy organisation, Dilxat Raxit, told Agence France-Presse (AFP) the sentences were “absurd” and "typical of the political persecution" faced by Uighurs.
"This is a case that would not happen in any other country in the world," Raxit said. "It is unacceptable and absurd. It exposes China's hostile attitude and crisis of governance.
"If a Chinese person grows a beard, it is a personal fashion he is allowed to choose freely. If a Uighur grows a beard, he is a religious extremist.”
China has crackdown on visible signs of Islam in recent years, arguing it is to prevent a feared separatist movement.
Al Jazeera reported that Chinese state media removed reports of the sentences following international criticism that they were another example of China’s repression of Uighur religious freedom.

Disclaimer:The view expressed here by our readers are not necessarily shared by Arabian Business, its employees, sponsors or its advertisers.

FUN DXB Vol II event, a recently held second gathering of entrepreneurs...


The recent spate of building fires in the UAE, including New...


waiting for your lip contour in Kuwait soon inshallah best of luck huda your the best more


No product ready after months, We signed up and yet waiting for the product to be ready. Every time they give us a different excuse and keep postponing... more


waiting for your lip contour in Kuwait soon inshallah best of luck huda your the best more


If I am not wrong it was the Islamic Banking arm of Emirates NBD who illegally cashed my friend Allan Paris's security cheque landing him in Jail. Please... more


I just cannot understand why all this incessant whining, yeah this is life and the standard of living is too expensive and will become far more expensive... more


waiting for your lip contour in Kuwait soon inshallah best of luck huda your the best more


If I am not wrong it was the Islamic Banking arm of Emirates NBD who illegally cashed my friend Allan Paris's security cheque landing him in Jail. Please... more


Another nail in the coffin for the competitiveness of UAE against a solid backdrop of overt salary stagnation (most people haven't seen meaningful salary... more
