2015-01~03
http://borneobulletin.com.bn/bangkok-bombers-wanted-to-target-pier/

Bangkok bombers wanted to target pier - Borneo Bulletin Online
BANGKOK (Reuters) – The perpetrators of last year’s deadly explosion at a Bangkok shrine originally chose a pier packed with Chinese tourists as their primary target and had amassed enough chemicals to make 10 equally powerful bombs, the chief of Thailand’s police bomb squad told Reuters.
A bomb planted at the Erawan Shrine on August 17 killed 20 people and turned a popular tourist site into a scene of carnage.
Another device, which was left at a crowded pier on Bangkok’s Chao Phraya river but failed to explode, might have inflicted much greater casualties, said a leading security analyst. Bomb squad chief Police Colonel Kamthorn Auicharoen’s disclosures to Reuters bolster a widely held theory that the perpetrators of the shrine bombing were trying to kill Chinese tourists.
The Thai police have maintained that the motive for the Erawan bombing was Thailand’s earlier crackdown on human smuggling networks. But many analysts, diplomats and even Thai officials say the August 17 bombing was likely an act of revenge for Thailand’s deportation to China of more than 100 Uighur Muslims in July.
Acknowledging that Chinese tourists were intentionally targeted could dent one of Thailand’s biggest industries. A record 7.9 million Chinese visited the kingdom in 2015, or more than a quarter of the 28 million tourists that year.
File photo shows Chinese tourists dining onboard a boat at a pier at Chao Phraya River in Bangkok Febru-ary 16. – REUTERS
Tourism is one of the few thriving sectors of an economy that has floundered since the military seized power in a May 2014 coup.
When asked about the Bangkok bombers’ possible targeting of Chinese citizens, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters on Thursday that attacks against civilians around the world, including Chinese, were increasing.
“We believe Thai authorities can severely punish the murderers according to law,” said Hua.
Thai police have uncovered evidence in the shrine bombing that points to a large and well-organised network, according to experts and documents reviewed by Reuters.
Dangerous chemicals and other materials discovered in Bangkok apartments connected to two suspects could have made ten more bombs, said bomb squad chief Kamthorn.
Yusufu Mieraili and Adem Karadag, the two suspects arrested last year by Thai police, are Uighur Muslims from China’s restive Xinjiang region. Hundreds of people have died in recent years in unrest in Xinjiang, where most Uighurs live, and in attacks elsewhere in China attributed to Uighurs. Exiles and human rights groups say those Uighurs engaging in violence are lashing out at oppressive government policies that restrict their culture and religion. Beijing denies this and blames militants for the rise in violence.
The two suspects appeared in a Bangkok military court on February 16 to hear the 10 charges against them, including murder and illegal possession of explosives.
The Legislative Council passed the national budget of $5.6 billion for the 2016-17 financial year on…
LIMBANG (Bernama) – The Malaysian federal government has been urged to talk to Brunei Darussalam…
|     James Kon     |   SINCE 2015, United Agri-Fishery Market Sdn Bhd, a company set…
|     Azaraimy HH     |   IT IS appropriate to discuss issues or questions prior to…
LOKA Malaysia, a first of its kind retail movement officially launched its flagship store bringing…
© 2013 Borneo Bulletin Online - The Independent Newspaper in Brunei Darussalam, Sabah and Sarawak
