2015-01~03
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/11354685/Chinese-police-shoot-dead-two-Uighurs-on-Vietnam-border.html

Chinese police shoot dead two Uighurs on Vietnam border - Telegraph
Police shot dead two ethnic Uighurs in southern China as they tried to illegally cross the border into Vietnam, state media reported.
The shooting occurred when police intercepted a van carrying five Uighur “stowaways” at a motorway tollbooth on Sunday evening near Pingxiang in the Guangxi region, according to the China Daily, a state-run newspaper.
Two of the Uighurs “violently resisted arrest” and attacked police with knives before being killed. Two members of the group were detained and one is at large.
Hundreds of people have been killed around China in the past two years in violence between majority Han Chinese and Uighurs, a Muslim minority from China's western Xinjiang region.
News of the border violence came two days after police shot dead six Uighurs in Xinjiang who were trying to detonate a bomb.

China bans burqa in capital of Muslim region of Xinjiang

“China is using extreme means like shooting and killing these people in order to intimidate other Uighurs who wish to escape,” Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress, told AFP news agency.
"There is a direct relationship between China's repressive policies and the increase in those trying to escape."
Xinjiang has been the focus of a year-long government crackdown on “terrorism driven by religious extremism”, which has included the banning of the burka in Urumqi, the regional capital.
It is difficult for Uighurs to obtain a passport; state media has claimed “separatists” have travelled to Syria to join Islamic State.
Rights groups say the government is violating the Uighurs' right to worship and its hardline policy is driving Uighur youth to extremism.
Since China’s Ministry of Public Security set up a special task force to patrol the country’s borders last April, some 350 alleged people smugglers have been arrested and 850 people attempting to flee across the border have been detained.
The smuggling is “mainly organised abroad and controlled behind the scenes ... in efforts to spread religious extremism, and bewitch and incite people to flee abroad to take part in jihadist activities,” a statement on the ministry’s website said.
Last year hundreds of people claiming to be Turkish but believed to be Uighur were detained in Thailand. In November nine Uighurs and 10 Turkish nationals were arrested in Shanghai in a fake passport plot. The Turks, who had entered China legally, provided the Uighurs forged passports for 60,000 yuan (£6,400) each.

In pics: A series of mysterious light paintings by artist duo from 
 Montreal 


From chokers and statement earrings to granny chic details, get ahead of the 
 curve with these simple flourishes 


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


A daredevil slackliner, azaleas in full bloom and Obama meets Castro 


Many dead and injured after bombs detonated at Belgium airport and metro


Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 
