2015-01~03
http://en.cihan.com.tr/news/China-s-official-policy-on-Muslims_0030-CHMTY1MDAzMC81

China’s official policy on Muslims - Cihan

The Paris attack makes it inevitable for us to examine how different countries come up with compromises regarding their Muslim minorities. I would like to express my observations about the People's Republic of China.When I visited China Radio International (CRI), I saw that one of several floors of the personnel dining hall was designated for Muslims. On this floor, halal food is served on green plates on green trays. Uyghurs are not the only Muslim group in China. There are also Kazakh and Kyrgyz groups as well as the Hui in the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region (NHAR). The Hui population in China is estimated to be 15 million, while the total Muslim population is around 40 million.Aboard the Beijing-Ürümqi plane, all passengers were served with food on green trays, and the food packaging had the phrase "Islamic food" written in Chinese, English, Arabic and Uyghur. The restaurants in Ürümqi and Kashgar have signboards reading "Muslim food" written in Arabic, Uyghur, Chinese and English. The same applied to the menus. Announcements were made in three languages on the Beijing-Ürümqi, Ürümqi-Kashgar and Ürümqi-Shanghai flights: Chinese, English and Uyghur. The advertisements in Uyghur start with "Hörmetli hanımlar ve efendiler" (Distinguished ladies and gentlemen).The Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region borders seven countries and is China's largest province. It covers one-sixth of China's surface area. Tibet and Inner Mongolia come after Xinjiang. The total population of Xinjiang is about 20 million, and it was decided that the four rich and developed provinces in the south should lend support to Xinjiang with a view to promoting the economic development of Xinjiang.These four provinces have started to make financial, technological and industrial investments in Xinjiang. In 2013, the gross domestic product (GDP) of Xinjiang was $138.5 billion. Xinjiang grew 11.4 percent in 2014. It is developing faster than the rest of China. There are 10 Muslim ethnic groups in Xinjiang. The Hui read Chinese.In China, minorities -- including Uyghurs -- were not subjected to birth control schemes. The number of children they could have was not restricted. The one-child policy, implemented for the Han, was terminated in 2013.China implements positive discrimination for civil servants' salaries in Xinjiang. Seventh, eighth and 10th grade salaries are paid, respectively, in Beijing, Shanghai, and Xinjiang. In other words, the highest salary is paid in Xinjiang.Turkey's alphabet reform is being debated in Ürümqi: Did relations between Turkey and Arab countries weaken after the Turkish alphabet was Latinized? Did the influence of Islam become weaker? Was there a rupture in Turkey's traditional culture after the Latinization of the alphabet? Central Asian countries started to adopt the Latin alphabet in the wake of the disintegration of the Soviet Union. Kazakhstan will adopt the Latin alphabet between 2015 and 2025. Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan already adopted it.Religious radicalism is widespread in the Arab world. By adopting the Latin alphabet, Uyghur intellectuals seek to protect themselves from Arab and Iranian radicalism. Can this move prevent religious radicalism? In China, there were unsuccessful attempts to introduce the Latin alphabet for the Uyghur and Kazakh languages in the 1960s and 1970s. Now, the debate is back. Some Uyghur intellectuals support the move to the Latin alphabet and use it on their computers. Others argue that the move to abandon the old alphabet will create a rupture in Uyghur culture.Chinese characters have different meanings and different tones. The Uyghur, Kazakh and Kyrgyz languages belong to the Turkic group. Turkey's successful transition to the Latin alphabet may be emulated. Uyghur, Kazakh and Kyrgyz youths are using the Latin alphabet on social networking sites as they find it easier to use.In China, minorities experience positive discrimination in education with the extra points given to the students.There are more than 20,000 mosques in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region. There are about 30,000 Muslim clerics. Every year about 14,000 people go on a pilgrimage from China. The number of pilgrims from Xinjiang is around 3,500. Polygamous marriages are not allowed in Xinjiang. Muslims attach great importance to worshiping in mosques. The Id Kha Mosque in Kashgar is Xinjiang's oldest and largest mosque. It was built in 1142 and enlarged three times. Seven-hundred people can pray inside. The number of Muslims attending prayers for Eid in the square near the mosque has numbered around 30,000. The tombs of ancient Uyghur khans are near the mosque.Turkey and China are both countries with deep-rooted traditions. Turks and Chinese people have roots in the same geography. Turkey is a power located at the western end of Asia while China is a power at the eastern end. For this reason, strategic cooperation between Turkey and China is important for the security, stability and welfare of Asia. This cooperation is different from the high-level cooperation Turkey has with its neighbors.A joint working group has been established and a strategic cooperation action plan has been drawn. The aim is to improve relations through regular high-level consultations and conduct joint work on a global scale. In this context, the Uyghur issue should no longer be a source of tension between Turkey and China, but an opportunity for promoting friendship and cooperation between the countries. Instead of competition, constructive complementarity should be brought to the fore.HASAN KANBOLAT (Cihan/Today's Zaman)