2015-01~03
http://www.cambodiantimes.com/index.php/sid/229502317

Police shoot dead two Uighurs in south China trying to cross border into Vietnam: State media - Cambodian Times
BEIJING (AFP) - The police in southern China shot dead two Uighurs trying to cross the border into Vietnam, state media reported on Monday, with rights groups saying repression at home causes members of the ethnic minority to flee.
Officers discovered a group of Uighurs near a highway toll gate and two who "assaulted" the officers with knives were shot dead, the government-run China News Service said.
Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking and mostly Muslim ethnic minority, whose resource-rich homeland Xinjiang has seen intensifying and increasingly sophisticated attacks, sometimes spreading beyond it.
Two more people were detained while the police were still searching for a fifth in Pingxiang city in the southern region of Guangxi, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.
Vientiane, March 20 (IANS) Voters in Laos on Sunday cast their ballots in the National Assembly and Provincial People's Council elections.
President Choummaly Sayasone and Vice President and General Secretary of the ruling Lao People's Revolutionary Party (LRPR) Bounnhang Vorachith both voted at polling stations in the capital Vientiane, EFE news reported.
There are reportedly around 600 candidates vying for five-year terms in Sunday's vote.
All candidates are either members of or have been approved by the LPRP, which has ruled the country as a one-party state since 1975.
"I am very happy to have seen people enthusiastically exercising their rights casting their votes for people's representatives so that they can have seats at Assembly and councils. This election is very meaningful to our country," President Sayasone said.
A total of 3.74 million people were eligible to vote.
In the last National Assembly elections in 2011, the LPRP won 128 seats, alongside just four approved, non-partisan candidates.

Mining operations by a Chinese coal company in northern Laos are causing structural damage to ...
Myanmar's parliament on Monday approved a proposal by the incoming government to reduce the number ...
An estimated three out of four jobs that make up the global workforce are either ...
A report to mark World Water Day reveals that the poorest people in the world ...
<br>The boss of Australia's stock exchange has quit just days after police began investigating allegations ...
Get the latest Cambodian Times headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Cambodian Times - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved