2015-01~03
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-01-14/chinese-police-arrest-10-turkish-nationals-for-providing-fake-pa/6017590

Chinese police arrest 10 Turkish nationals for providing fake passports to terror suspects - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)
Chinese police have arrested 10 Turkish nationals for allegedly providing fake passports to people described as terror suspects.
According to Chinese media reports, the Turkish nationals were detained in Shanghai for attempting to sneak ethnic Uighurs out of the country.
The Uighurs have been described as "suspected terrorists", preparing to use fake Turkish passports to travel to Syria, Afghanistan and Pakistan through Shanghai's Pudong Airport.
The reports said the Turkish nationals were paid the equivalent of $12,000 for each passport.
They face up to seven years prison for allegedly "helping others to illegally cross national borders".
Another 11 people, including nine Xinjiang "terror suspects", were also detained in November while trying to leave China on Turkish passports, the state-run Global Times newspaper reported.
The Chinese foreign ministry and the Turkish embassy in Beijing did not immediately respond to requests for information about the case.
The paper said terrorism-related audio and video materials were found among the suspects.
Some ethnic Uighurs are turning to violence to push for independence in China's west.
Islamist militants from Xinjiang have been blamed by the government for attacks elsewhere in China, including Beijing.
Over the past two years, hundreds of people have been killed in Xinjiang, strategically located on the borders of central Asia.
On Monday, a group tried to set off an explosive device in a business district of Xinjiang, prompting police to shoot dead six of them, the local government said.
Last October, Malaysian authorities detained 155 Uighurs in Kuala Lumpur who were carrying Turkish passports suspected to be fake.

Topics:
terrorism,


 
 unrest-conflict-and-war,


 
 world-politics,


 
 foreign-affairs,


 
 law-crime-and-justice,


 
 china,


 
 asia,


 
 turkey


 First posted 
 
 January 14, 2015 20:31:14
 

For information on how you can help, visit abc.net.au/appeals or call 1800 811 700.
If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC.
Brussels has been rocked by a series of blasts at the city's airport and at least one metro station, leaving at least 26 dead.
Dozens of large private companies paid no corporate tax in 2013-14. Search our database to see who's paying what.
Malcolm Turnbull has shown crossbench senators the hangman's noose and their minds will now be focused on one thing: survival.
Boldness is the currency of Canberra and confidence is a substitute for the control MPs will never have. Enter Malcolm Turnbull and the double dissolution gamble he "had to take", writes Chris Berg.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.


AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)
