2015-01~03
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/afp/article-2908364/ID-required-buy-New-Year-fireworks-Chinas-Xinjiang.html

ID required to buy New Year fireworks in China's Xinjiang | Daily Mail Online

Published:
 09:58 EST, 13 January 2015

 | 
Updated:
 09:58 EST, 13 January 2015


Authorities in China's Muslim-dominated Xinjiang region said Tuesday that residents will have to provide ID to buy fireworks for Chinese New Year in order to prevent "terrorists" from getting hold of explosives.
"The move is meant... to prevent terrorists from obtaining raw materials to make explosive devices," said Li Jianghui, an official with the region's work safety department quoted by state media.
Far-western Xinjiang has seen a surge in violence over the past year as tensions have mounted between China's ethnic majority Han and the mostly Muslim Uighurs.
Chinese family members set off fireworks as a bride and groom arrive for a wedding reception at a hotel in Urumqi, in China's far-western Xinjiang region, on May 24, 2014 ©Goh Chai Hin (AFP/File)
Beijing blames the violence on "religious extremists", "separatists" and "terrorists" and has responded by launching a severe crackdown in recent months, with hundreds of arrests as well as campaigns against religious practices such as the wearing of veils.
On Monday police shot dead six attackers after they "sought to ignite explosive devices", Xinjiang's government-run Tianshan news site reported.
The move announced Tuesday is also meant to reduce safety risks caused by illegal firework outlets and poor quality fireworks on the market, said Li.
Only 19 fireworks manufacturers will be allowed to sell products in the violence-torn region and sales will be limited to a few days before the new year celebrations, local media reported.
China's lunar new year, which falls on February 19 this year, is traditionally marked with fireworks, which are meant to scare away evil spirits and bad luck.
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group