2015-01~03
http://www.japanherald.com/index.php/sid/229231811

China Slams 'Western' Press Freedom Amid Solidarity Over Paris Attacks - Japan Herald
China's official media on Friday hit out at "Western" notions of press freedom in the wake of attacks in Paris that left a dozen people dead, sparking a hostage crisis in the French capital.
Wednesday's attacks on the weekly satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo was carried out by gunmen believed to be Islamist militants wanting revenge for the weekly's lampooning of key Islamic figures, including the Prophet Mohammad.
After the shootings, elite French police stormed a printworks and a Jewish supermarket, killing two brothers wanted for the attack and an apparent accomplice who had taken hostages in two separate sieges.
The attacks were a trending topic on China's microblog platforms, and made the comment pages of major media outlets controlled by the China's ruling Communist Party on Friday.
In its Chinese-language edition, the tabloid newspaper hit out at the use of satire by Western news media.
"Westerners believe that when a small minority of Western media satirize the Islamic prophet, that this is 'freedom of the press,'" the paper said in an editorial on Friday.
"Some people even see the protection of this freedom a Western value."
Hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets around the world in the wake of the massacre, holding banners and placards reading "I am Charlie," in support of press freedom.
But the said many Muslims living in the West "feel that they are neither trusted nor respected."
It said Western politicians were unwilling to "curb" media outlets because of their need to win votes. "Sometimes they even support the media," the paper said.
While the official Xinhua news agency echoed the Chinese government's condemnation of the attacks, it said they had highlighted "issues with France's anti-terrorism and immigration policies in recent years."
French involvement in strikes on Libya and the Islamic State had turned the country into a target for terrorists, while religious extremism has been allowed to flourish under the country's liberal religious freedom policies, it said.
"The specter of terrorism had surfaced in France well before this attack," the article said.
Charlie Hebdo's editor and some of France's best-known political cartoonists were among those killed when masked men armed with automatic rifles burst into an editorial meeting at the weekly's Paris offices on Wednesday.
The global outcry over the killings included a series of cartoons pitting pens and pencils against rifles, in solidarity with the victims of the attack.
Chinese cartoonists added their own responses, depicting a wounded personification of "Liberte," or freedom, as well as references to literary accounts of the July Revolution of 1830, which are studied in Chinese schools and universities.
Political cartoonist Wang Liming, known by his online nickname "Biantai Lajiao" (in English, Perverted Chili Pepper), posted a cartoon in which a masked terrorist mistakes a pen for a weapon.
Wang, who has frequently been targeted by the Chinese authorities for his work, wrote on Twitter: "The worst that can happen to a cartoonist [in China] is a jail sentence, but in France, they can be gunned down and killed for poking fun at a religion."
"Hmm. Perhaps I should thank our precious party one more time for being so gracious as to refrain from killing me," Wang tweeted.
Journalist Zhu Xinxin, a member of the writers' group Independent Chinese PEN, said the official media was simply looking for excuses to attack the notion of press freedom.
"We have to make a distinction between Islamist terrorists and Muslims," Zhu said. "Most people around the world don't think that Charlie Hebdo overstepped the mark in terms of racism or discrimination against other cultures."
"[This article] really is confusing black with white," he said. "The often picks on various conflicts and problems in the West and blames them on Western democracy or press freedom."
"They want to use this incident to prove that their own controls on the media are justified, and seize on this issue to demonize press freedom in the West," he said.
Guangzhou-based artist He Guoquan said that while perhaps there was a debate to be had about satire directed at religions, the incident has highlighted the lack of any such freedom in China itself.
"All the media in China are run by the state and controlled to the extent that no dissenting voices can emerge," He said.
"There are two main pillars of human civilization: one is the freedom of expression, and the other is democratic elections," he said.
China led the world in imprisoning journalists in 2014, with a total of 29 behind bars, a Paris-based press freedom group said in a recent annual report.
China, which fell two places to rank 175th in the Reporters Without Borders Global Press Freedom Index in 2014, is also holding 73 netizens, the group said.
Journalists' associations in Hong Kong issued statements condemning the violence.
The Hong Kong Journalists' Association (HKJA), which has highlighted eroding press freedom in Hong Kong amid a series of violent attacks on outspoken journalists in recent years, said it is "shocked and outraged by the incident."
"We hold this attack to be tantamount to the murder of free speech and press freedom," the group said in a statement on its website.
"HKJA reiterates that any form of threat, no matter how deadly, will not deter journalists and others in the fourth estate from defending the freedom of press and free speech as a whole," it said.
Meanwhile, foreign correspondents who gathered in a show of solidarity, holding "Je suis Charlie" placards at a Beijing cafe were carefully watched by Chinese police, the reported on its China blog.
China on Thursday condemned the attack, describing terrorism as "a common enemy of all mankind."
"Terrorism is a common enemy of all mankind and a common threat to the entire international community," President Xi Jinping was quoted as saying by Xinhua.
Xi, who launched a one-year anti-terror campaign in the troubled northwestern region of Xinjiang last May, said China "stands ready to work with France and other countries ... to safeguard world peace and protect the people of all countries," the report said.
The Xinjiang region, which is home to millions of Turkic-speaking Uyghurs, has seen an upsurge in violence that has left hundreds dead since 2012, and which China has blamed on terrorists and Islamist insurgents seeking to establish an independent state.
But rights groups accuse the Chinese authorities of ethnically targeted violence in the form of police raids on Uyghur households, as well as tight restrictions on the practice of Islam, and curbs on the culture and language of the Uyghur people.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Forty percent of India's population may not have drinking water by 2030, if the water crisis in country is not met seriously, a study has warned.
With the country facing a grave water crisis and lack of water conservation, the availability of potable water and ground water has decreased over the years which would result in severe situation in the country after a decade, said an activist for water conservation on the eve of World Water Day (March 22) observed to create awareness about water related issues and for action to deal with the global water crisis.
"By 2030, 40 percent of the total population in the country will not have drinking water if situation remains same," Jal Jan Jodo Abhiyan's national convenor Sanjay Singh told IANS, quoting a research published recently by the 2030 Water Resource Group (WRG).
"The ground water is depleting, the small tributaries have dried up to 90 percent and the flow of rivers has reduced by 60-65 percent. This will lead to a severe situation in the coming years reducing water availability to a great extent," he added.
He also said that the per capita demand has increased whereas the availability is very less. In fact, a report on ground water published by PRS Legislative Research --a non-governmental organisation -- says: "Due to increasing population, the national per capita annual availability of water has reduced by 15 percent from 2001 to 2011."
It also said that India uses almost twice the amount of water to grow crops as compared to China and the US.
"The gap between the availability and demand is increasing at a greater pace. Cities like Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai and other metropolitan cities consume water in huge quantities due to changed lifestyle of people. This must be looked into," Singh told IANS.
He also said that the efforts done by the government were not enough to meet the crisis.
South Asia Network on Dam, Rivers and People coordinator Himanshu Thakkar says water crisis in the country is multidimensional and is aggravating fast because of various factors including mismanagement of the resource.
He anticipates big problems based on the water crisis looming large in the country, if the situation continues.
"Ground water is the lifeline of the country which is depleting very fast. Water is part of ecological system as every living thing on earth needs water so if not dealt with properly the perennial water crisis may lead to more serious problems like food crisis, livelihood crisis, social conflicts," Thakkar told IANS.
He said that social conflicts based on water crisis have already started in the country. Tension between Haryana and Punjab over Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal project and conflicts in Marathwada region of Maharashtra over water are the latest examples.
"In terms of water crisis in India things have now come to such a pass that a district collector in Latur district in Maharashtra had to implement section 144 to avoid clashes between people due to water crisis," Thakkar told IANS.
Blaming the government in general being the major contributor towards the crisis, Thakkar said the government machinery was solely responsible for failing in water management.
"Government is responsible for water crisis in terms of mismanagement. The government does not involve people in the management of water. This year is a drought year so the problem has increased manifold but the efforts of the government does not seem sufficient to deal with the crisis," he said.
About the water crisis in Delhi, he said that mismanagement on part of governments can be seen easily as in February, Jat protesters took over Munak canal in Haryana stopping water supply to the national capital and it took over a fortnight to deal with the consequences.
Ruwa Shah can be contacted at ruwa.s@ians.in and Ashish Mishra can be contacted at ashish.m@ians.in)

Washington D.C., Mar. 22 (ANI): Kesha and her lawyer lashed out at the judge, who ...
Singapore / Tokyo, Mar.21 (ANI): Subway is the most important transport system in Singapore with ...
Amposta - Thirteen people were killed and 44 injured on Sunday when a bus carrying ...
Monday, 21 March -- The Director-General, Irina Bokova, inaugurated the new premises of the Division ...
New York, March 22 (IANS) Singer Kesha has filed an appeal against a New York ...
Get the latest Japan Herald headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Japan Herald - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved