2015-01~03
http://www.worldbulletin.net/news/156568/two-uighur-women-killed-by-chinese-police-says-report

Two Uighur women killed by Chinese police, says report | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
Chinese police shot dead two Uighur women during a raid on the outskirts of Guangzhou just hours before a knife attack at the southern city’s main rail station, local media reported on Sunday.
The March 5 operation saw police arrest more than a dozen Uighur men when officers swooped on Xiniujiao village, near the capital of Guangdong province, witnesses told the Hong Kong-based Sunday Morning Post.
Hours later, 13 people were injured when three knife-wielding men attacked people at random at Guangzhou rail station. One suspect was shot dead and another arrested.
Police have not publicly discussed the ethnicity of the attackers or linked the raid with the knife attacks but locals told the Post the two were connected.
A property agent told the newspaper: "Right after the arrest, you see the railway station attack the very next morning. Of course they are related."
The Chinese authorities have blamed previous knife attacks in public places on Uighur separatists, such as the March 2014 attacks at Kunming train station in Yunnan province that left 31 people dead and 141 wounded.
The Post reported a leaked police document circulating online as saying: "Two knife-holding women resisted arrest and were shot by police. One was killed on site with the other one pronounced dead after being treated by hospital. No police were hurt."
Describing the rail station attack, the report said two suspects who appeared to be Uighur attacked civilians on the morning of March 6. One was shot dead and the other was arrested. It confirmed a third man was at large.
The briefing document also mentioned a series of failed attempts to smuggle Uighur out of China through Macao, 145 kilometers (90 miles) south of Guangzhou.
The attacks at Guangzhou were the second set of attacks at the city’s rail station within a year. An assailant wounded six people in May last year.
China has launched a crackdown focusing on the western East Turkistan autonomous region, home to a sizeable Uighur Muslim minority, which activists say is a smokescreen for repression and has led to many Uighur seeking to leave China.
The Uighur are a mostly Muslim ethnic Turkic group that constitutes around 45 percent of Xinjiang's population.
A 67-year-old man from the southeastern city of Chittagong, who had not travelled abroad, was found to have the virus in his blood
Security forces detonate roadside bomb in Muslim majority province where military has been clashing with ISIL-affiliated group
Two maintenance workers have been killed after a train in Singapore hit the workers
Suu Kyi to take one of four positions in new cabinet, with Minister of Foreign Affairs tipped to be the likely choice
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

Gunman killed in attack on Mali hotel hosting EU mission

US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar

NASA astronaut to return to Earth after year in space
