2015-01~03
http://www.indiagazette.com/index.php/sid/231332905

Police Raids Yield No Clues About Kidnapped Uyghur Village Police Chief - India Gazette
A wide-ranging police search for an ethnic Uyghur security chief kidnapped by a group of Uyghurs in an area known for violence between the ethnic group and Han Chinese in China's restive, far-western Xinjiang region has so far yielded no clues, local police said.
Imin Memtimin, 41, who has played an active role in police operations in Sadiqawat village of Baghchi township in Hotan county, was kidnapped by unknown men from his home on the morning of March 9.
Police have been conducting raids of homes in the village in hopes of determining the identities of the kidnappers and finding Memtimin, who served as a police officer from 2010 to 2012 and was later promoted to Sadiqawat's security chief. ?
"The investigation teams from the county and prefectural levels have been stationed in the village," a police officer at the Baghchi township police station told RFA's Uyghur Service.
Hotan (Hetian in Chinese) prefecture in southwestern part of Xinjiang has been rife with stabbing and shooting incidents between ethnic, mostly Muslim Uyghurs and Chinese security forces, with attacks coming amid a string of assaults and bombings across the region, formally called the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.
Adil Ismayil, deputy chief of Hotan country's Public Security Department, who is leading an investigation team of seven officers in conducting the raids, told RFA that the operation is still under way in the prefecture, but his authority was limited in terms of disclosing information about the case.
Four kidnappers wearing black masks over their faces and carrying sticks entered Memtimin's house at 2 a.m. on March 9, said Memtimin Tursuntohti, a police officer in Sadiqawat village.
The kidnappers, who may also have had knives, told Memtimin to be silent and come with them, he said.
"They allowed him to wear his clothes, then took him without touching anything in the house," he said. "They pushed his wife away while she was asking, 'Who you are? Where are you taking him to?'"
At first, Memtimin's wife thought that police were taking away her husband for presumably doing something wrong at work, but she became aware that the men were kidnappers when she saw the sticks in their hands instead of guns, Tursuntohti said.
The kidnappers told Memtimin's wife, who later relayed the information to police, to take care of herself and her children, but she fainted from the scare, Tursuntohti said.
"According this information, we know that the kidnappers were Uyghur, but still we don't know further information about their identities," he said, adding that the prefectural-level investigation team might know more about the incident because they came to the scene with technical equipment.
"So far, we've interrogated more than 1,000 people and detained more than 200 as suspects," in Sadiqawat village, Tursuntohti said, adding that he did not know how many people had been detained in other villages and counties. ?
"It is clear for me that the whereabouts of our security chief Imin Memtimin are still unknown," he said.
Azat Mijit, chief of Sadiqawat village, said the village had remained free of any violent incidents, although some residents had heard of such incidents occurring elsewhere.
"That is why we are in a weak position in terms of collaborating with the police investigation," he said. "No home has been skipped during the raids in my village, but still we have no valuable information about the kidnappers and the whereabouts of the security chief."
Mijit said it was difficult for authorities higher up to keep news of the incident quiet so as not to encourage terrorists or scare off Han Chinese who live in the area.
"But they have been forced to disclose the incident given the circumstances of the investigation," he said.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): A delegation of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) met President Pranab Mukherjee on Monday evening to apprise him of the Uttarakhand crisis, while demanding that Chief Minister Harish Rawat should be allowed to prove his majority on March 28 as fixed by the Governor, and not before that.
Interacting with reporters outside the Rashtrapati Bhavan here, leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad accused the Centre of forcing Governor K.K. Paul to advance the session and to ask the Chief Minister prove majority before March 28. "The Governor has already set a deadline for the Uttarakhand Government to prove their majority, hence, we urged the President that the Chief Minister should be allowed to prove his majority on March 28 as fixed by the Governor, and not before that," he said.
"The Centre did not give a chance to the Congress Government in Arunachal Pradesh to prove their majority, and the same should not happen with the Uttarakhand Government," Azad added.
"We apprised the President how the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with the help of the Central Government is trying to trample democratically elected Opposition parties-ruled governments, especially Congress Governments, in various states," said Azad.
A few weeks back, he said, the Congress Government in Arunachal was brought down, and now the effort is on to overthrow the Uttarakhand Government.
"We informed the President that BJP leaders held our MLAs captive in a bus against their wishes, and produced them before Governor K.K. Paul and now forcing them to issue statements. The 26 BJP MLAs from Uttarakhand have made nine helpless Congress MLAs their captive. We are concerned about their safety," said Azad.
Earlier on Friday, rejecting the Opposition's claim that the ruling Congress Government has slipped into minority after its nine MLAs defected, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Harish Rawat said his government was in majority and if the opposition has any doubt, they should bring a no confidence motion.
However, the BJP claimed that it would stake claim for the formation of a government in the state as the Rawat government was in minority. BJP's national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya told ANI on Friday that 35 legislators - 26 BJP and nine Congress rebels - would be meeting the Uttarakhand Governor K.K. Paul at Raj Bhawan to stake claim for the formation of a government. (ANI)

Geneva 21 March 2016 (WMO) - The year 2015 made history, with shattered temperature records, ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
New Delhi, Mar 22 (ANI): Extending his greetings and felicitations to the government and people ...
New Delhi, Mar 22 (ANI): Ola Money, the popular digital payment solution from Ola, India's ...
Hyderabad, Mar. 22 (ANI): Some 200 aviation companies from over 25 countries participated at the ...
Get the latest India Gazette headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 India Gazette - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved