2015-01~03
http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/world/2015/01/14/and-the-bans-play-on-in-china/

And the ‘bans’ play on in China… | Free Malaysia Today
China's banning spree continues with burqas after the government put a stop to Twitter, Google, Facebook, and Hollywood blockbusters.
BEIJING: The authorities in China are cracking down on women dressed in burqas in the western region of Xinjiang, home to almost half the Muslim population there.
Proposed last month by local legislators, the ban on burqas has been given the green light by the regional legislature, according to CNN.
The burqa, or what the Chinese call “face-masking robes” is an outer garment worn by Muslim women which covers the entire body, including the face to protect their modesty.
Earlier, another city in Xinjiang had stopped people dressed in Islamic-style clothing, wearing veils or sporting large beards from boarding public buses during a provincial sporting event.
This followed reports that authorities in Xinjiang had banned students and civil servants from fasting during the Muslim holy month of Ramadhan.
And just two days ago, China imposed another ban – on US poultry and eggs – after Avian flu was detected in non-commercial flocks last year, the Wall Street Journal reported.
“There’s absolutely no justification for China to take such a drastic action,” lamented Jim Sumner, president of the US Poultry and Egg Export Council, who revealed that the bird flu outbreaks in US were isolated and remote incidents, far from production areas.
But that hasn’t stopped Beijing, famous for banning everything from smoking indoors in public to low-cut necklines and squeezed bosoms on TV, from enjoying a banning spree.
To round things up, CNN released a story on eight things you won’t find in China
Readers are required to have a valid Facebook account to comment on this story. We welcome your opinions to allow a healthy debate. We want our readers to be responsible while commenting and to consider how their views could be received by others. Please be polite and do not use swear words or crude or sexual language or defamatory words. FMT also holds the right to remove comments that violate the letter or spirit of the general commenting rules.The views expressed in the contents are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of FMT.
Home | About Us | Disclaimers / Copyright | Advertise | Contact Us | Copyright (C) 2009-2016 MToday News Sdn. Bhd. All Rights Reserved.