2015-01~03
http://www.dawn.com/news/1173034/islamophobia-in-china-and-pakistans-vow-of-silence

Islamophobia in China and Pakistan’s vow of silence - Blogs - DAWN.COM
Recently, in a country that is decidedly not France, a Muslim man has been sentenced to six years in prison for keeping a beard.
I daresay it’s time we have a polite talk about Islamophobia with our good neighbor in the north.
In the Muslim dominant region of Xinjiang, the 38-year-old man was handed the punishment by the Chinese court. In addition, his wife has been sentenced to two years of imprisonment for wearing an Islamic veil.
Ironically, this took place in Kashgar: the city romanticised in Iqbal’s poetry as one end of the unbreachable Muslim flank guarding the sacred ‘Haram’.
The couple was pronounced guilty of “picking quarrels and provoking trouble”, which is basically my job description as a blogger.
The charge is so absurdly vague and ambiguous; it may as well be Mandarin for “not liking one’s face”. Which is indeed what it sounds like, if one follows the trail of violent suppression of the Uighur populace through history, marked with arbitrary arrests and baffling restrictions.
In July last year, the government forbade Xinjiang officials to fast in the month of Ramazan, and initiated a robust campaign discouraging native women from wearing veil. In Urmaqi, bus passengers were banned from carrying a wide range of common household items, including yoghurt.
The restrictions, each a flagrant assault on the Uighur people’s cultural values, are justified by the most valuable excuse available to us in the post-9/11 universe: ‘security’.
These increasingly despotic measures are being adopted under the doctrine that counter-terrorism definitively trumps individual liberty, although I’m personally having a hard time figuring out how to weaponise yoghurt and facial hair.
I’d reach out and ask the exceptionally inventive Muslims of Uighur, had the Chinese government not dismantled the internet in that region almost to its entirety.
One may be forgiven for asking at this point, if there is a giant portrait of Mao Zedong hanging reverently somewhere in the upper offices of Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA).
These ‘whimsical’ freedom violations barely make up the prologue of a book on Chinese aggression against the Muslims of Xinjiang.
Between 1964 and 1996, China conducted more than 40 poorly-controlled, nuclear tests in Xinjiang. An expert who studied radiation effects from tests by the US, France, and former Soviet Union, calculated that as many as 194,000 people may have died from acute radiation poisoning, among a whopping 1.2 million people who received doses high enough to induce cancer and gross fetal abnormalities.
These are the “conservative estimates” of the damage caused in three decades.
If this form of aggression appears too indirect and impersonal, it should be viewed in context of decades of arbitrary arrests, executions and reports of heinous torture.
The government has been accused of promoting a Hans mass migration to Xinjiang to dilute the natives’ proportion from 90 per cent of the population in 1949, to almost 45 per cent today.
The regime now “manufactures consent” (weirdly, a Chomskian term usually reserved for Western imperialists) of its people for these extreme measures against the Muslims of Xinjiang, by citing ‘Islamic terrorism’ against the Hans in the province.
Ultimately, the Chinese government’s greatest feat is to have its President sit beamingly in the same room as the Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, without ‘Uighur’ creeping into conversation.
More impressive still, is the capacity of the Pakistani political leaders, touting Islamic unity and decrying the oppression of Muslims wherever they may be, to ignore the Islamophobia raging in its most favoured state.
But that’s realpolitik. I’m more curious about how this information would be processed by an average Pakistani social media user, incensed by the anti-Muslim bigotry across Europe.
At the end, I suppose I’m just hoping we’d all get to hear our Prime Minister’s next passionate speech on Sino-Pak friendship over the sound of the invisible elephant blaring in the room.
Faraz Talat is a doctor from Rawalpindi who writes mostly about science and prevalent social issues.
The views expressed by this writer and commenters below do not necessarily reflect the views and policies of the Dawn Media Group.
Pakistan's foreign policy with any country is uni-dimensional: 'friend' or 'foe', nothing in between. That's the foreign policy you get when military runs this policy for 38 years (and counting ...). Had we been a normal country, with a normal foreign policy, and no begging bowl in hand, we could have engaged the Chinese on this issue without making them feel threatened, as a friend counselling a friend.
Some of you really have a wrong idea. Just because Pakistan has developed a few bombs, that doesn't mean that you are going to command some type of dominance over other countries. What can Pakistan do to China or KSA for that matter?
Moreover Muslim population in China has shrunk to just 1.8% today from existing 5%.So the problem will be auto solved
well written.. though i am not racist.. but i think our "pro-Chinese" stand without question will come and bite us.. most west countries which gave open doors to Chinese businessmen have ended being at mercy of their wims (i.e. USA, NZ).
We have to oppose and demonstrate our displeasure against any discrimination against muslims anywhere in the world. Even if its China.
This is one article the government is not going to like. Nothing hurts more than the truth.
Now intresting to see how Pakistanis defen their all weather friend.
Alhamdulillah, you had the courage to speak up the truth - indeed, that's the job of a Muslim for a Muslim
I guess Pakistan must first resolve its own issues before telling someone that something is wrong in their country...
Muslims around the world are going through "big test"..May god help them to pass..
You should write in Urdu as well. It is not only the government but where are all the Mullahs who charge up the masses about anything that is perceived to be anti-Islamic in Europe or North America.
Try talking to China about it and see all the investments flying away into oblivion. Yeah that's a good idea. Not.
we got a blind eye for our All weather friend :)
Is Pakistan the protector of Islam in the world. What stupidity is this? Its own citizens are worse off than most of the Chinese. Fix it before lecturing the world.
"...“picking quarrels and provoking trouble”, which is basically my job description as a blogger. "
Nice one man :) ...
The problem starts when we try to become the sole leader to defend islam while we havent done it for our own selves. Chinese muslims do create trouble. Last year, stabbed foreigners as well as chinese. Dr Faraz, Please do so authentic research of religious extremism being brought to that area and you may lead to protect MUSLIM UMMAH !
What i don't understand is the need to be leader of all Islam followers here. Definitely whats happening in China is wrong at all ends, but for a Pakistani to feel for the atrocities just because they share a religion is beyond comprehension. Consider what would happen if America or India refuse to engage with Pakistan because of atrocities faced by minorities there. Need to provoke some thoughts here!
Critical. No comment. Lets decide and warn China. Oh no....., US upset, can not upset China. Let China do what it likes.. , we will only raise issue when something good/bad happens in India. This is correct. Without that we loose our identity and ....
Do you know about the demolition of Chinese mosques in mass scale, during cultural revolution?
They will come down harder on Muslims.....nothing worthwhile is going to happen?
History keeps repeating. This phobia has created more pain than any other sect ever did in past.
Pakistan can't dare to annoy China by raising this issue. The claim of Pakistani state's of being an Islamic champion are as dumbfounded as USA being the champion of DEMOCRACY! Religion should be independent of politics. Pakistan will have to make a choice between its goal of being an Islamic state or be an viable entity at all, at some point of time.
This is not our business. We should focus on the development and well being of people of Pakistan first. Just look at where we are today compare to China who become independent around same time as us, and India who is far far ahead of us. I really in pain to see our Politicians and securities are mixing religion with state and lost the focus of development of nation. Forget the Kashmir, forget the 'good and bad' terrorists, just keep the development in focus.
Parliament must pass resolution condemning China. Oppression against religion cannot be tolerated.
Their country their Law. Not more to talk about here....
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif must condemn China on this issue.
These people are victims. They can challenge the court's decision in a higher court. If things are still not favorable, they should migrate to Muslim countries.
One word..
Be selfish. The world is selfish. Today's international relations are not based on principles other than "national interests". Religion, is certainly not one of them.
Over 500 atmospheric nuclear tests have been conducted so far by the US, France, Russia and India. If we wana be a Japan, may be we should have a "talk" to others in the line as well.
Cheers,,
Discrimination in Burma, scarves in France, beards in China, and skirmishes in Yemen. With all the bigotry and social decay that has permeated our daily lives in Pakistan, I find it truly amazing that we still have time for nitpicking abroad.
Did china have only one person who have beared? If not then why other people have not punished? 
I am not asking this because I am against beard but if it is crime to have beard then all must be punished and if not crime then there must be something else behind the punishment of this person...
Nice try. Irrespective of how China behaves with Uighur Muslims or treats the followers of Islam, there is not much that Pakistan can do. Best to grin and bear it and continue to condemn France for banning the veil or the West for its 'Islamophobia'.
So the author wants Pakistan to annoy one powerful ally that it has in the immediate vicinity over a beard issue? Not the best suggestion I am afraid.
In a world where Pakistan finds itself isolated to some degree, it cannot afford to make enemies of existing friends and that too China. It's China's problem. Pakistan can stay quiet and neither support it or oppose it. That is the best stance in this situation.
@Wandering Around You are stupid. It does not commanding or dominance it is about requesting saying telling, asking, not to go on the path which could and would bring some kind of strain in our nations and governments in long term.
It is not that Pakistan alone is silent. Indian Muslims are also silent on China issue, although Indian Muslims protested in 2012 at Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata in response to a communal problem at Burma, where India was not at all involved. They burnt buses in Mumbai and created traffic jams at other places.
Pakistan's position on Islam is simply political in nature. To 'think' otherwise is follish.
Of course many decide not to think - they believe.
We have nothing to say about the part of Kashmir occupied by China for that matter.
The Chinese put a Muslim guy in prison for growing a beard and his wife for wearing the hijab? And they imprison people for carrying yogurt? Wow, what friends Pakistan has chosen. Chinese ko dahi se bhi khatra mehsoos ho raha hai?
@Zia . This should be true for all the neighbours.. or?
Spot on - Chinese persecution of Muslims is well known but just another Elephant in the Room that Pakistanis are trained to ignore. I suppose when your desperate for friends you ignore their faults - but hating Muslims is a bit much isn't it?
Mullahism is not Islam. It is indeed the opposite of everything Islam is about.
I suggest, please keep your nose out of other people's affair. Get your house in order first. Pakistan is one of the worst places, when it comes to religious freedom among all other crimes against humanity. Charity begins at home sir!
What looks very funny is Pakistanese blames India for not treating well kashmiri and Muslims in India in spite of we being the most secular country in the world, where minorities have more rights than majority Hindu but when it comes to China, pakistan will close eyes and mouth....Fear of loosing every green friendship?
I can't believe our All weather friend acts this way, it may be time to rethink our whole strategy of who we keep as friends.
"I wish some power the gift to give us,
to see ourselves as others see us."
(Robert Burns)
Chinese media don't show such news because of their government policies otherwise Muslims are more in pain there than anywhere else.
A country in a state like Pakistan cannot afford to be honest or honorable. On top of that, there is this saying about people in glass houses should not throw stones at others.....
China is the country of chinese. whatever they do is there choice, it should not harm the Pak-China friendship
@ZAK I have expressed my displeasure about the way Muslims are treated in China , but the Chinese don't seem to care.
I think Pakistan govt should use its trade/infrastructure ties with China to negotiate better living conditions for minorities in China
@ZAK how about protesting against discrimination against every Human? Why Just Muslims? What about discrimination of non muslims in Muslim countries?
@lifestealer Like I said, that's realpolitik and I get that.
But then public should have the intelligence to question their leader' exuberance in condemning oppression of Muslims in Kashmir and Palestine, but not China because that's too inconvenient.
Let's admit that we don't actually give a fig about 'Muslims', and we're just using their misery to score political points against our foreign nemeses like India and Israel.
Double standards from our side Pakistani Bro! We jump with anger if something is done to Indian Muslims but there is a pin drop silence when it comes to Chinese Muslims. Hats off for our duplicity my friends!
@Sandeep Pakistan is doing best for its country more successfully than any other nation by eliminating terrorists. Don't worry sandeep Pakistan will be one of the wealthiest nation soon. Todays times will be remembered as the worst times in history of Pakistan.
@ZAK What about the discrimination with other communities by Muslims in Muslim Majority countries . People don't have basic rights also in most of these countries.
Many Muslim countries are living under fear of religious inspired attack by Muslims. Pakistan itself is a victim. Chinese government cannot ignore growing religious based attack on others by Uighurs. China is a communist country and if they ban every religious practice , Pakistan government cannot do any thing.
The Xinjiang issue is more complex than you might think; moreover, Pakistan has to save muslims in Kashmir first. Not only is it closer, we've considerable amount of influence there.
We should invite Uighurs and get their view on their issues before trying to be their attorneys.
@Truth. you only- worry- about your friends and loved ones.
Choose another word.
2ndly we have no interest in how wealthy you will get.Our aims are simply to better our lot and not suffer from chronic jealosy and hate.
Islamphobia has spread like cancer throughout the world bringing destruction and hatred
Dwindling in percentage by the day just 1.8 pc now.Problem over soon
Cultural and religious genocide by the Han Chinese. The Chineses also occupy about 10% of Norther Kashmir. 
The Chinese are smart they have wrapped their repression of the Uighur under "War on Terror" which was itself triggered by Bin Laden and friends.
Stop worrying about religion, china kills thousands ppl from all religious background every year. Worry about ppl of your own country regardless of religion.
Problem with Pakistanis is that they like to blame others.
@Pawan we will talk to chinese and convince them to stop any oppression and cite Indian occupied Kashmir. IOK is lost to india, just awaiting a formal UN plebiscite to gain freedom. China needs to avoid that route.
@ZAK 
We have to oppose and demonstrate our displeasure against any discrimination against muslims anywhere in the world. Even if its China."
Yes you should, but your should also stand for discrimination against non-muslims anywhere, including Pakistan.
@ZAK And what would say about suppression of non-muslims in Muslim countries dear ZAK Ji..Would you oppose it or not. if yes, then why not start it in Pakistan first.
It is appalling to see that China has started annihilating the Muslims from various province. Muslims were slaughtered in Uighur and in Jinjiang, Muslims are restricted from fasting and performing Tarawih which is gross violation of Universal Universal Human Rights. It is surprising that no Muslim countries nor any Religious leader dare to condemn those anti Muslim decisions. Rather the Muslim countries are seen to give warm reception to any Chinese official in their countries .
If Buddhists are treated in the same way in Muslims majority countries, Buddhists countries will voice together and keep continuous pressure to find things in their way.
I am Indian and my respect for this newspaper has increased tremendously. I would read DAWN any day instead of some chest thumping jingoistic newspaper.
If we are true Muslims then it is our duty to speak about injustices to other members of the Ummah be it in Palestine, Kashmir or China.
Frankly it is hypocritical of Pakistanis to ignore the plight of Uighars. If China is a true friend of Pakistan, then it should listen to friendly advice and our leaders should give that advice.
If it's not well received then they are not our friends and the relationship is purely a transactional one based on mutual interests. In which case we should stop talking about the height of the Himalayas and the depth of oceans!!!
Pakistan and other Islamic countries should raise their voice against this human rights violation in China. We cant expect anything from India since she is already involved worst kind of violation against their minorities.
This kind of suppression will bring more agitation from the Muslims population in China
None of this would be happening if we Muslims being in such big numbers in today's day and age are so far away from the teachings of holy Qur'an. We are not even united within the boundaries of one single country (e.g. Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iraq, Yemen, Sham .... the list goes on and on). We keep blaming others for our short commings, yet the problem lies within ourselves. How can we even think about being one single Ummah? . Until that happen we will be marginalized everywhere in the world.
@ZAK Indian ZAK , stop hurting my image in dawn by using my id.
"Pakistan has to save muslims in Kashmir "... haha at the cost of Pakistan save the muslims of Kashmir. Pakistanis do not understand what is their opportunity cost of useless fight for Kashmir. If I remember correctly Pakistan per capita income was more than Indian in 90's and now India is ahead. If India can achive a per capita GDP of about 1800 USD then Pakistan should be closer to 3000 mark given they have much more resources per capita due to lesser population density.
@Ahmed "Mullahism is not Islam. It is indeed the opposite of everything Islam is about."
Who would believe you buddy...look around you...every Islamic country is fighting against each other...Muslims are killing their own Muslim brethren...do I even need to name any country??? The latest example: Saudi Arabia vs Yemen...
Every religion is banned in India.islam is not special. Follow Law of land just like in Arab countries case.
Every country has a right to protect its Citizen enimity with China is not in Interest of Pakistan one should protest deplomaticaly but protect Chinese interest internationally as China is Pakistani' friend.
The simple truth is Pakistan cannot afford China's displeasure. India is already a foe and why add another big neighbor to the list. It is nothing but sensible diplomacy.
@ZAK have to oppose !!!!! Even if !!! Do you think your spineless Govt can do this keeping your submarine deal at stake ???
first make Pakistan economically and educationally strong.than we can do some thing for other Muslims. no our Muslim brother is safe in the whole world .so itz the responsibility of Pakistan to make our nation super power than we can help other Muslim brothets
The OIC should take it up if there is a problem of Islamophobia not Pakistan.The same goes with the Uighur problem.
Welcome to Totalitarian Autocracy! Chinese also want to control who is eligible to be a Dalai Lama and who is not. They also define which religion is acceptable (right now five are designated as official) and which are not. There you have it: Difference between democracy (and even an imperfect one) and a dictatorship. Saudi Arabia seems to have more in common with them than Pakistan does, despite the "all weather" rhetoric.
Government of China should grow up and stop discriminating against people because of their religious beliefs and ethnicity. Pakistani politicians and government leaders must get a spine to speak against discriminatory Chinese policies and actions against Muslims of China which shall be true representation of the public sentiment in Pakistan.
@ZAK we are already dealing with so many things that this would be the last thing i would want my govt to indulge in, be it china or any where....
just solve all the issues we are already dealing with!
This is precisely the problem with muslims . China is an independent and sovereign country . They have their own law and orders. They don't interfere with Pakistan's affairs. They do whatever best for their country. Why are you worried ?
two questions, one is where did this writer being taught media. two is why you written in English.
two explanations, one is Uighur traditional clothes are not veil, and men dont have beards. two is why after 911 few Uighur become wear like this.
two suggestions, one is please go to china have a look and then comment what is real happened there, two is respecting is an mutual things that muslin and non-muslin should both be.
Isn't communism all about homogenizing the society in the aspects of finances, culture and class? I don't think we should call this Islamophobia.
@Zak India will hold a plebiscite as soon as the Pakistani troops pull back to 1947 borders.
what kind of all weather friendship is this where we fear of mentioning this Muslim issue with our best friend?
@Gerry dcunha Do you think the practice of Islam may have something to do with it?
@Zia I think the wisdom has prevailed at last with you. You are right and neutral this time.
@Truth This is a very serious discussion. It is not a time for cutting jokes.
Pakitan is not worried about the judgement day. Surely worried about chinese judgement.
Thanks for exposing true phase of China to Indiaphobics in Pak.
@n b good for them bjp was not in power then.
@Ijaz try to be humans first instead of true muslim. world will be much better with that.
As if Pakistan does not have enough troubles of its own. It cannot antagonize the one friend it has in the international community.
When you are going to put your bearded Neanderthals behind bars.
Yeah but then in return for the silence you get a higher than mountain sweeter than honey and deeper than ocean love from the Chinese. Am sure it's worth the trade isn't it ?
@sana Pakistan should take on anyone in this matter. Pakistan was created for islam. Instead of begging for money we have to beg China to stop the discrimination immediately.
Muslims need to understand Islam, what does "Islamic veil" means? This and other aspects considered "Islamic" are cultural aspect of place were Islam was born. They need to separate Islam from Arab. I always wondered about orthodox people, they are more in love with there rituals and traditions than the true meaning of the religion they follow and nobody can enlighten them.
Muslims can make this as issue of curb on individual freedom, but thinking of hijab, veil, beard, cap, circumcision, etc. as Islamic is pure ignorance.
India so badly wants Pakistan to stay away from powerful mighty China. The Indians only need these articles to pick on Pakistan and China friendship.
We should write to the un. Ashamed to be a pakistani.
our 2nd best friend also treats us like our first one. bummer.
There is no political or economic basis of the so-called all weather friendship of Pakistan and China, nor has Pakistan any religious or cultural connectivity with China such as she has with India and even Iran. The only basis of the Sino-Pak ties is the common hatred of India which naturally did not exist before 1962 when China turned India's enemy. As for Pakistan's rhetoric for the cause of Muslims, it is pure rubbish. This is well established by the care which Pakistan has shown towards the Bihari Muslims entrapped in Bangladesh ever since 1971, while crying hoarse about the Kashmiri Muslims and the Palestinians. Besides, I think a Muslim is much more unsafe in Pakistan than in China or India.
@ZAK I think you made a typing error: Change from: "against muslims" to "against anyone"
One should Accept the fact, that you have to be adaptive to environment around you. One should not act obstinate to displeasure people around you under the name of religion. One should be adjustable to maintain harmony, whatever it takes.
In a situation where people in majority doesn't like someone, then it's better not to irk the majority. With time you can make a room and you would be accepted, if you have a right reason. That's called change management.
If this would have happened in India, Pakistani parliament would have immediately passed a resolution condemning the incident. Hafiz Sayeed would have gone for a long march protesting the incident. Pervez Musharaf would have given a long speech lecturing India. Alas, this happened in our all weather friend's home. Let's ignore it as if nothing happened. Let's continue to spit more poison against India. Long live our opportunistic establishment and poor foreign policy.
China is the only country in which people can sleep at night peacefully becuase its attitude to religion. In china, Not only muslims, other religions have also limited freedom. It is for the security of nation. There is no Taliban,Al-Quida,or other monsters in china. Religious freedom is very danger after a certain limit. The muslims in china have to live according to china's rule, not islamic rules. Otherwise they can leave china.
@ZAK 
Why don't arrange and lead one of that kind?
Thanks God, it is first time I have seen article against China in any major news paper in Pakistan... Well done DAWN and blogger. Otherwise, people vilify U.S.A for everything that goes wrong against Muslim , but not China. In western world, Muslim can pray freely , but no in China. On that account even Israel is better than China. Chinese are friends of no one , they are friends of their interests.
Don't Even look at what other countries are doing. Just work on to keep your house in order. If you are strong internally everybody listen.
Pakistan govt. must act now -before it is too late. Tell your Chinese friends how to calm the situation and what are Islamic hot spots not to be touched.
@Wandering Around This is not the case of dominance-this is to call for justice-and equal rights which all the mankind have agreed to be given to all.
Congrats to both Dawn and Faraz for publishing this. I like your definition "picking quarrels and provoking trouble" - unfortunately, that seems to be the mantra of today's media. The article exposes the hypocrisy of Islamic countries and exposes the suppression of religious freedom in China. The OIC should join in condemning China. Of course, the Chinese will ignore it.
Last time I checked Kasmiris could keep their beard, wear burqa and carry yoghurts. Carrying AK 47 is not appreciated though.
China is a great friend of Pakistan. Our interests merge on all issues. I lived in China for two years and know that the issue is blown out of proportion.
@ZAK You should be opposing all discrimination, not just discrimination against Muslims.
@qa_ri@yahoo.com It is the job of everyone to speak up for the truth - nothing to do with any religion.
@Aadami Phobia implies fear. I do not think it is a fear, simply a dislike.
@TrueMuslim Why not help some Hindus, Sikhs and Christians closer to home?
@Shahrose Khan There are people even closer, just look out through your window
I am sure most of the readers who are making comments against China are clean shaved (without Islamic beared). Some senior members in Jamat e Islami and JUI F or other Religious parties are not having beareds. I would appreciciate their views on this topic.
@truth Pak is very happy with China becoming powerful ignoring all negative effects from China.
China is not acting wisely in its efforts to destroy a people and their culture by brute force and highhandedness.
It has adopted most humiliating and cruel tactics to say the least.
I have been very much against their atrocities in this province since a long time.
Just because they are our ally, does not mean we should not tell them where they are absolutely wrong.
Our corrupt leadership has a lot of vested business interests and too many skeletons in its closet to actually talk to China about this very grave and serious matter.
I live in China and this article portrays an inaccurate picture of things in China. There is a halal restaurant on every street in CHINA. Just Google it. The author should first visit China before writing on this subject.
Well pretty much same is happening with Shias and other minorities in Pakistan.
So Obama is not saying something similar to what he said in India about religious intolerance. Hope Pakistan brings this to U.S notice.
Every individual Muslim must raise our concern and displeasure and highlight this thing on every available platform to put some sort of pressure.
@Gaurav Arya I wouldn't be so judgmental about the friends that Pakistan has chosen. Lest I point out the shenanigans of your best friend Russia.
@KN I wouldn't talk of hypocrisy for a country claiming to be secular but very calmly calls itself Hindustan.
Well written. Hope someone at Chinese govt or their Embassy in Pakistan will read this blog and convey the sentiments of people of Pakistan to their Government. At least in private talks, Pak Govt. should raise this issue with Chinese Govt.
@Kamal , I think Pak has the right to question if anything bad happens in India.. See, Pak is the only opposition India has got in this whole world. So, a credible opposition will pave way for better governance. Good luck.
@haihiaha @DareDevil how do you know that, you go there?
Haihiaha : I came to know about mass scale demolition of mosques through publicly available sources like wikipedia, bbc.com. Providing the links for you to check and validate. Let me know if I am wrong. I wish, I am wrong.
@Ijaz I dont understand the concept of 'Ummah'.. Is that not little old? Now countries have boundary and people adopt to lifestyle and culture which is suitable and affordable in the place they live. You can't expect a Muslim living in Ethiopia to scale up to your standards nor you can expect a Brunei muslim to come down to your level. I think time is right to speak of a localized body well entrenched in understanding the ground realities rather than trying to forcefully gather a caliphate style Ummah..
well as a friend we should be able to raise the concerns about the mounting number of injustices against the uhigur muslims. ideally if a friendship is based on equality then we should not be hindered by the prospect of this affecting our "higher than mountains and deeper than sea friendship"
Ooo the row now sailing towards China.Well I have a question, do we have the right to ask China to avoid apprehend those culprits having links with Alqaeda , ISIS and TTP.It seems now greater games started to part pour ways from a friend like China after posing a threat to relations with Iran on account of Yemen issue.
@anup You're honestly asking me why I'm worried about flagrant human rights' violations in China?
Like there's something wrong with me for caring about the basic welfare of human beings outside 4-m radius of me? I'm not sure. I might be suffering from a condition called 'empathy'.
@ZAK Even though you have to live on a begging bowl.
Arabs treat the south asian muslims very badly. I do not hear any protest against that.
Pakistan has it's hands full right at this moment and picking up a quarrel with an ally would not be discretion ,right?:):):)
@The conscious Did you just wake up? Maybe unconscious would be more fitting.
@ZAK So are you volunteering to teach our foes a just lesson? Hurrah!
While in Rome do as the Romans do, and while in China do as the Chinese do.
China must not forget that Pakistan is a nuclear power!
This article should be feedback for China.. how Pakistani citizens feel about their Islamophobia. China! dear friend, let people choose what life they want to lead.
if nuclear power & so much power shortage 
yr army wants nuclear weapons rather then nuclear power
China is our friend of all weathers. So it is ok. Don't make it an issue.
I totally agree with your views. How is it possible on the one hand to decry the treatment of muslims elsewhere but not by china. Its easy to tell your enemies the wrongs they commit. However if one is unable to enjoin good and forbid evil amongst his or her own family friends and those closest to us, then doing the former is of little use. We however amongst all the muslims nations lack a clear foreign policy and use pragmatism as a bases for solving problems. There is little consistency between policy makers and senior officials. One should always uphold the truth regardless of its short term consequences. Truth allways avails in the end. Inshaallah. The uighur issue needs to be raised with china. These people have stopped from practicing basics of their faith. If pakistan needs china then china also needs a strong pakistan. It deems that we have always played the role of little brother when dealing with other nations.
@Aadami I hope more saner voices like you arise in Pakistan and understand the real world realities. Sometime back I did a search to Nazia Hassan in youtube and I see very nice songs of her recorded in Pakistan. If you compare it with the state of today, its just miserable.
I have not seen/read about any other country in the world that has gone so bad in a matter of a decade. 
I hope saner voices like yours arise and country gravitates towards development instead of religion.
Pakistan should follow the Chinese example as a role model. There will be no sectarian killings, no political religious parties, no interfaith tensions, no innumerable holidays. Countries and individuals who keep religion to themselves are far better that those who wish to propagate, their own versions of faith on others.
@shamain Don't you feel bad about ISIS terrorists killing other brutally ? How better is that compared to chinese atrocities against muslims ?
Don't you feel you should stage protests against ISIS also ?

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
