2015-01~03
http://in.reuters.com/article/2015/02/12/china-xinjiang-idINL4N0VM53Z20150212

China to boost financial help for troubled Xinjiang | Reuters
BEIJING Feb 12 Four of China's top financial
regulators vowed on Thursday to step up policy support for the
poorer southern portion of the troubled western region of
Xinjiang to boost economic development and ensure stability
there.
Hundreds of people have been killed in resource-rich
Xinjiang, strategically located on the borders of central Asia,
in violence in the past two years between the Muslim Uighur
people who call the region home and ethnic majority Han Chinese.
The government has also blamed attacks elsewhere in China,
including Beijing, on Islamist militants from Xinjiang.
Authorities have employed a carrot and stick approach to
bring Xinjiang under control, massively ramping up security but
also pumping in money, in a recognition of the economic roots of
the unrest, especially in the poorer southern portion.
In a joint statement, the regulators, including the central
bank, said they would deepen indirect fund-raising, expand
direct financing, encourage financial innovation and step up
infrastructure projects.
Favourable monetary policies, such as differentiated
required reserves, will be used to spur financial institutions
to increase the amount of credit available for southern Xinjiang
region, particularly for agriculture and small companies.
Banks should "improve tolerance" of non-performing loans, as
long as risks are well controlled, and set up branches in poorly
served areas, the regulators added.
But authorities will also have to increase efforts to fight
terror-related money laundering, they said.
Many Uighurs complain that only the Han benefit from
Xinjiang's economic growth, as a result of discrimination and
the poor educational levels of Uighurs, including lack of
fluency in Mandarin, the national tongue.
Xinjiang is crucial to China's growing energy needs, but
foreign experts and rights groups say the bulk of the proceeds
from sales of its resources has gone to majority Han Chinese,
stoking resentment among Uighurs.

 (Reporting by Ben Blanchard)
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.