2015-01~03
http://www.thailandnews.net/index.php/sid/231444843

Thailand News - Court Rules Suspected Uighur Family Must Remain in Thai Custody

The court rejected the refugee family's contention that indefinite detention in the kingdom is illegal. It said Thai authorities must continue to hold them until identification documents are received from both China and Turkey.

The case has pitted Turkey against China, with Thailand seemingly reluctant to make a decision that would anger either of those countries.

The family's lawyer, Worasit Piriyawiboon, said all 17 have relatives and a house in Turkey and their nationalities now should be beyond dispute. They all obtained passports from Turkey's Interior Ministry that make them "officially Turkish citizens."

But China claims the refugees are from its Xinjiang region and must be repatriated.

"They have to remain in Thailand subject to verification of nationality. So nothing has changed," a spokesman for Thailand's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Sek Wannamethee, told VOA shortly after the court decision.

Fifteen members of the Teklimankan family were apprehended by police one year ago after illegally entering Thailand from Cambodia. Since then two children have been born to the family.

The family's lawyer said the Uighurs have to pay for the cost of staying in the detention center, as well as their food, water and any medication.

Phil Robertson, deputy director of the Asia division for Human Rights Watch, said conditions in the detention center are poor.

"We're talking about small children. We're talking about infants that are being condemned to stay in overcrowded and unsanitary conditions in the immigration detention center indefinitely because Thailand doesn't want to believe the Turkish government when it says that these people are Turkish citizens," said Robertson, speaking to VOA from Berlin.

Thailand's decision in this closely-watched case has implications for more detainees than just the one family.

"At this time there are over 300 people that are in this dilemma, essentially stalled in an effort to go to Turkey - people who have all claimed to be Turkish citizens, people that have been interviewed and assessed by the Turkish government," said Robertson. "And the Turkish government has said that 'yes, indeed, these are our citizens and we want them all to go.'"

Under pressure from Beijing, some Asian countries - including Cambodia, Malaysia, Pakistan and Thailand - have sent fleeing Uighurs to China.

There are an estimated 10 million Uighurs in Xinjiang. The Turkic-speaking ethnic minority has not accepted rule by China, which has been accused of repressing the Uighurs' culture and religion.
Shillong, March 21 (IANS) Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday admitted that there was a need to strengthen security along the international border in the northeastern region to curb ...
The rules of cycling are, usually, pretty simple. You put your head down, you turn the pedals. You try to keep a steady cadence. You watch out for cars on the roads and rocks on the trails, you keep ...
Thailand's 4G expansion was thrown into disarray yesterday after a telecom company that beat more established rivals at an auction last year failed to meet its first payment deadline, ...
/* The tag in this template has been generated for use on a non-SSL page. * If this tag is to be placed on an SSL page change the "http" to "https". */ --> ...
(FILES) This file photo taken on January 30, 2015 shows an illustration of an iPhone held up in front of the Apple Inc. logo.Apple said February 22, 2016 it would accept having a panel of experts ...
The Bank of Thailand will face a tough policy decision, while South Kore will release its fourth-quarter growth report and Japan offers up an inflation reading in a holiday ...
A Phuket-Moscow flight with 369 people on board was grounded for six hours for an emergency inspection after one of the passengers said he didn’t feel safe. The airport ...
Barack Obama and his Cuban counterpart Raul Castro vowed on Monday in Havana to set aside their differences in pursuit of what the US president called a "new day" for the ...
Htin Kyaw, left, newly elected president of Myanmar, walks with National League for Democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi, right, at Myanmar's parliament in Naypyitaw, Myanmar ...
Thailand face their biggest game in recent memory when they play Iraq in Tehran on Thursday, needing just a point to guarantee passage into the final stage of AFC qualifying for the 2018 ...
TOKYO - The dollar held firm against the yen and the euro on Tuesday, after two Federal Reserve officials suggested the US central bank may raise interest rates as soon as next ...
CUPERTINO, United States - Apple on Monday unveiled a new iPhone with a four-inch screen, aiming to reach consumers looking for a handset that is more affordable and compact than its flagship ...
Pete Bhodaramik, chief executive officer of Jasmine International (JAS), at the press conference on December 21, 2015 revealed business plan after winning the licence. ...
Traditional taxi, motorbike taxi and other public transport drivers are angry that the new services are offering rides at lower prices. (AFP File ...
The five O-Net subjects are maths, science, English, Thai and social studies, religion and culture. Assoc Prof Samphan Phanphruk, director of the National Institute of ...
Chiang Mai , said reports from 90 hospitals in the area showed that the number of patients with coronary artery and respiratory diseases had increased dramatically as the region's haze worsened ...
KATHMANDU - The head of Nepal's earthquake reconstruction authority is being investigated following complaints of corruption and other irregularities, an anti-graft official said ...
The National Anti-Corruption Commission (NACC) Monday floated a proposal that investigation of cases with great impact on the public should include top officials to make the cases more ...
Following Chinese tourists' chaotic stampede and subsequent gluttonous gorging of piles of prawns at a buffet in Thailand, Phuket will be holding an etiquette course for guides working with ...
NAY PYI TAW, Myanmar - Myanmar's new president-elect told lawmakers Monday that plans to create a new ethnic affairs ministry were "vital" for the conflict-torn nation, in his maiden ...
Thailand News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Beaches, exotic temples, ruins, good food, world-class services, snorkeling and scuba diving, hill-tribe culture, trekking, nightlife, exceptional handicrafts, classical dance, friendly people and beautiful scenery are among the main attractions of Thailand.
Thailand will appeal to anyone who is interested in beach vacations or archaeology, but especially to those who want to explore exotic cultures without sacrificing modern conveniences.
Bangkok (Thailand), Mar.22. (ANI): Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of Myanmar's National League for Democracy, will be a minister in the new Cabinet when it takes power this April, ending weeks of ...
Singapore - Two maintenance staff working on elevated tracks in Singapore's mass transit system were hit and killed by a train on Tuesday, an official said. It was a rare tragedy on a train system ...
Sydney - Two pieces of debris found in Mozambique have arrived in Australia for experts to determine if they came from missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, an official says.
A huge search for the ...
Bangkok, March 22 (IANS) Haze in Thailand's northern provinces has caused 64,108 people to be hospitalised, while more patients are expected as a result of the air pollution, the media reported on ...
BRUSSELS – Terror visited Brussels Tuesday morning, as explosions rocked the airport and a metro station - in apparently coordinated attacks, killing scores of people and grievously injuring many ...
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from the United Nations Security Council sanctions list after a Chinese request, a media report said ...
BAMAKO, Mali – At least three unidentified gunmen opened fire in their attempt to force their entry into the European Union Training Mission (EUTM) headquarters in the capital of Mali, Bamako, ...
LONDON – There are “clear downside risks” to the country if Britain left the European Union, ratings agency Moody’s said on Tuesday, warning that the exit from the bloc would also lead to ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
© 1999 - 2016 Thailand News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)