2015-01~03
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-03-31/china-jails-muslim-man-for-growing-beard/6360542

China jails Muslim man for growing beard, wife for wearing burka - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)
A Muslim man has been jailed in China for six years for growing his beard while his wife has been imprisoned for two years for wearing a burka, according to China Youth Daily reports.
International Uighur groups have criticised Chinese officials for imprisoning the couple for having an extreme Muslim appearance.
World Uighur Congress spokesman Dilxat Raxit said the sentences were "absurd", and typical of the political persecution faced by the mostly Muslim ethnic minority group.
"This is a case that would not happen in any other country in the world," Mr Raxit said in a statement.
"It is unacceptable and absurd. It exposes China's hostile attitude and crisis of governance.
"If a Chinese person grows a beard, it is a personal fashion he is allowed to choose freely. If a Uighur grows a beard, he is a religious extremist.
"China's goal is to use judicial means to force Uighurs to accept Chinese people's traditions and give up their own way of life."
Western China's Xinjiang province has seen a major crackdown on ethnic Uighurs with clothing and appearances linked to radical Islam.
The couple were charged with "picking quarrels and provoking trouble".
For more than a year the authorities in Xinjiang have been campaigning against men growing beards — a practice officials associate with extremist ideas.
A campaign dubbed Project Beauty also encourages women to leave their heads bare and abandon wearing the veil.
Rights groups believe Beijing's repression of Uighur culture and religion has fanned tensions in Xinjiang, a resource-rich region that abuts central Asia.
Violence increased last year and at least 200 people were killed in a series of bombings and deadly clashes with security forces, blamed by Beijing on separatists and religious extremists.
Beijing defends its policies, arguing it has boosted economic development in the area and that it upholds minority and religious rights in a country with 55 recognised ethnic minorities as well as the Han majority.
By Monday the China Youth Daily report and several other articles on the case had been deleted from mainland news sites.
For information on how you can help, visit abc.net.au/appeals or call 1800 811 700.
If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC.
Brussels has been rocked by a series of blasts at the city's airport and at least one metro station, leaving at least 26 dead.
Dozens of large private companies paid no corporate tax in 2013-14. Search our database to see who's paying what.
Malcolm Turnbull has shown crossbench senators the hangman's noose and their minds will now be focused on one thing: survival.
Boldness is the currency of Canberra and confidence is a substitute for the control MPs will never have. Enter Malcolm Turnbull and the double dissolution gamble he "had to take", writes Chris Berg.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.


AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)
