2015-01~03
http://www.silkroadreporters.com/2015/02/13/u-s-leaves-afghanistan-will-china-come/

As U.S. Leaves Afghanistan, Will China Come In? | Silk Road Reporters
As the the military withdrawal by U.S. forces from Afghanistan edges ever closer, China appears to be moving in a new direction towards greater involvement in Afghanistan, with a tripartite meeting in Kabul between Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Beijing earlier this week.
The meeting coincides with a Wall Street Journal report on Feb. 10 which detailed meetings between Taliban leaders and Chinese officials in Beijing in December 2014, in addition to meetings between US, Chinese and Afghan officials in the same month.
China’s increasing level of involvement stems from President Xi Jinping’s desire to focus more on international affairs before, whereas previous Chinese leaders have chosen to focus on maintaining domestic stability. China has also weathered criticism that it is ‘free-riding’ on the work accomplished by the U.S. military and NATO forces, as China has refused to contribute military support to the project but is benefiting economically in Afghanistan.
Beijing is primarily concerned with securing access to Afghanistan’s mineral and energy resources and establishing new markets. In this vein, it signed agreements in Kabul with Afghanistan and Pakistan this week to build a 1500-megawatt hydroelectric plant in the turbulent Afghan border province of Kunar, as well as assist Pakistan with the construction of a Peshawar-Kabul railway. China has also agreed to assist with the construction of a rail line between Chaman, in Balochistan, and Kandahar.
China’s leaders recognize, however, that ensuring the stability of their Afghan investments is critical. Though the Metallurgical Corporation of China (MCC) won the bid to develop the Aynak copper deposit in 2008 and China National Petroleum Company (CNPC) acquired the Amu Darya oil fields in 2011, progress on both projects have been stalled due to ongoing security issues. A spate of Taliban-led attacks on Kabul prompted the U.S. to commit an additional 1,000 more soldiers in the country in 2015 than originally planned, accentuating the country’s continuing instability.
China has plenty of reasons to be concerned about a resurgence in violence in South Asia. In addition to the area’s mineral and energy riches, it is also geographically close to its tense western province of Xinjiang, sharing borders with both Pakistan and Afghanistan. Xinjiang has witnessed a steady stream of violence and terror attacks in recent months, and China remains concerned that militants from South Asia could further stir up tensions.
This explains why China has deviated from its non-interference policy toward its neighbors. Chinese leaders believe that the only way an accord can be reached between Kabul and the Taliban is through the involvement of Pakistan-based Taliban groups, and has been pushing Pakistan to encourage Taliban groups in that country to participate in the reconciliation talks between the Afghan Taliban and Kabul-based government. China is promising aid to Islamabad in return for this assistance.
“We hope that China will play a proactive role in bringing peace to Afghanistan, because whatever the Chinese do, they do it according to a plan and with focus,” Afghan President Ashraf Ghani said in December 2014.
China’s involvement in Afghanistan will be markedly different from that of its predecessor, the United States, should China choose to bolster its Afghan entanglement. Beijing has explicitly stated that it will not be sending any ground forces to be stationed in Afghanistan and will not be providing any parties with weapons.
Beijing also has no ideological opposition to the Taliban becoming more involved in Afghan politics, seeing a rapprochement between the two sides as necessary for establishing security – and ensuring the protection of Chinese investments.
China will also benefit from a more solid, continuous relationship that it shares with Pakistan, which is expected to give Beijing more stead with Islamabad than the US has had. Beijing also has good relations with both Iran and Russia, which have a vested interest in maintaining peace in Afghanistan.
Yet Beijing will be confronted with the same challenges the U.S. faced – including the lack of political unity on the ground, the loss of billions of dollars in aid and military assistance from NATO, and improving relations with neighbouring states.
Jax Jacobsen is a Montreal-based freelance journalist who reports on Central Asia, mining, and foreign affairs. She has been published in the Montreal Gazette, The Guardian, The New Statesman, and elsewhere. She can be found on Twitter @jaxjacobsen.
Subscribe to our news and get the latest information from Silk Road Reporters
Subscribe to our news and get the latest information from Silk Road Reporters