2015-01~03
http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/islamic-state-china-xinjiang-region-iraq-xi-jinping/1/423144.html

Extremists from China have joined ISIS : World, News - India Today
A number of extremists from China's Muslim-majority Xinjiang region have travelled to West Asia to join the war being waged by the Islamic State group, a top Chinese official said on Tuesday.
In the first official confirmation that Chinese terrorists had joined the Islamic State, the Communist Party chief of Xinjiang, Zhang Chunxian, said that "Xinjiang has extremists that have joined IS".
"We recently broke up a few cases involving those who had returned directly after fighting in war," Zhang was quoted by Reuters as telling reporters, speaking along the sidelines of China's on-going 10-day session of the National People's Congress, or Parliament.
China has blamed a string of recent violent attacks in Xinjiang on Uighur extremist groups such as the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, whose members Chinese officials say are in hiding in Pakistan or Afghanistan. Uighurs are an ethnic Turkic minority native to Xinjiang.
Chinese State media have previously said as many as 300 people from Xinjiang may have been involved in fighting for IS or in Syria, although these claims have not been verified.
Separately on Tuesday, Hong Kong newspaper Ming Pao said the assailants behind a knife attack on Friday on a railway station in Guangzhou in southern China may have planned to travel to West Asia to join ISIS. The attack had left nine people injured, with one attacker killed and another taken into custody.
The newspaper said the railway station attack had followed a police raid on a group of 40 Uighurs who were in hiding in Guangzhou, and had plans to travel to Southeast Asia and onward to West Asia. Uighur extremists were also blamed for a knife attack on a railway station in Kunming, in southwestern China, last year that left as many as 29 people killed and more than 100 injured.
For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in. ताज़ातरीन ख़बरों और वीडियो के लिए आजतक.इन पर आएं.