2015-01~03
http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/d-brief/2015/03/27/rare-pika-photographed/

Rare, Adorable Pika Photographed For First Time in Decades
If you went out searching for the Ili pika in the moutains of China, odds are your search would be fruitless. And that’s a darn shame.
Seriously, look at that cuddly distant relative of the rabbit.
Sadly, Ili pikas are “vulnerable to extinction” according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature, and as such, no one has seen the little critters for two decades. But last July, Li Weidong, the man who discovered the creatures in 1983, was reacquainted with an old fuzzy friend while climbing through the Tian Shan Mountains in central China. With his camera in tow, he made sure to snap the first picture of an Ili pika since Bill Clinton was president.
Ili pikas, nicknamed “magic rabbits,” grow to be about 7 inches long, and they live at cool, high elevations on the craggy rock faces of mountains in China. But like so many other endangered animals, Ili pikas are seeing their habitats gobbled up by grazing livestock, climate change and pollution. To escape these threats, Ili pikas climb higher into the mountains, but they’re running out of room.
Li has studied the critters extensively, and he estimates they number fewer than 1,000 worldwide — making them rarer than the panda.
After finding and Ili pika in 1983, Li returned to find two more that year and declared it was a new species. He named it after his hometown Ili. But in 1992 Li left his work with Ili pikas to join the Xinjiang Academy of Environmental Protection in the regional capital Urumqi, and studies of the animals ceased. Then, in 2007, Li retired and set his sights on searching for the elusive mountain dwellers once again.
Li certainly has an affinity toward the mammals, but it’s a relationship that may not have a happy ending. He told CNN:
“I discovered the species, and I watched as it became endangered. If it becomes extinct in front of me, I’ll feel so guilty.”
Li funds Ili pika research on his own dime, and has spent $32,000 working to track down the animals and protect them. Currently, Ili pikas are not listed on China’s List of Wildlife under Special Protection, and Li would like to establish a nature reserve to protect the few remaining Ili pikas.
Let’s hope Li is successful, because we want Ili pikas to stick around and warm our hearts for a lot longer.
If they could find them AND transfer them to a safer less endangered region with the same habitat, maybe they could re-establish their numbers and allow them to flourish again.
it takes money, he needs a go fund me page!
What about the World Wildlife Organization? One must wonder why they would allow something like that become extinct. There are other groups as well that get many govt. Grants as well as private donations.
You need to consider that they may have a negative impact on the environment they are relocated to. They are rabbits after all.
Very true, look at how well that turned out in Australia. I wonder if it would be possible to breed these in zoos? I know some of the rarer species don’t do well in captivity.
I think that given it down to the last thousand or so at least trying captive breeding should be attempted and if successful a viable breeding stock should be maintain.
If they become valued as food, there will be a lot of money put into their continued existence and proliferation. I hope, rather, that they grow in numbers, enough to become a new pet animal.
The problem is the WWO has no power in the People’s Republic of China. Remember, it’s China’s very citizens that are ultimately behind elephant and rhino poaching (for example).
They clearly care about Pandas as well and the government certainly care about the environment some ways, they wouldn’t have undertook a huge reforestation program if they didn’t.
How do you know they would survive in another habitat? There are many animals who live in very small areas of the planet (land and water) that can only survive because of the climate or food source located there.
It can work — our California Condors became extinct in the wild in 1987, when we captured the last 7 for a last attempt at creating a captive breeding program.
In 2012, they counted 404, divided among 5 separate populations. They were divided so that one natural disaster wouldn’t wipe out the entire species.
So, it CAN work, and I deeply believe that our California Condors would have been extinct without it.
What can work for one species might and will not work for all. Many species have a very limited diet or climate requirements while other animals can thrive almost anywhere and adapt very quickly.
Might work, might not work. If it gets down to the last few, might as well roll the dice. Better than just waiting for the last one to die so we can stuff it.
It would take a lot of negotiating with China though to start worldwide breeding programs, and once they’d reach a certain age China would demand their return since they’re very possessive about animals unique to their territory. That’s why such a big fuss is made about pandas when they’re shipped around the world for breeding programs and then sent back to China a few years later.
In most cases now we have to try diverse methods to be successful at one as nobody has the the answer to the rate of environmental change even in specific areas.
They are where they are because that is where they need to be. Climate change is a big threat to all pikas. They need high elevations and cold.
Up past a certain elevation, there is NO food for anything. We have lots of high elevation areas in the USA. However, since the huge Canadian wolves have been brought back into the country, it’s not really a safe place either. Although extinction is no better. I think they would love the Columbia River Canyon, or perhaps Hells Canyon, which is not humanized because its so steep.
Why should the world care? It’s China’s citizens that are the complete driving force behind the world’s decimation of elephants, pangolins, tigers, rhinos, sharks among many other creatures. Chinese greed is the problem and President Xi is a dirty little coward that does nothing. All citizens of China are cowards for that matter.
Um, ok, but how is that the pika’s fault? I don’t get why that would be a logical reason to allow another species to go extinct.
People are not the only reason species go extinct. Millions of species are gone that were gone before we were even here.
True… Still not understanding why Chinese greed would be a good reason for letting pikas go extinct…?
However, people are the reason we seem to be at in the midst of the 6th mass extinction on the planet.
Its lack of education that is the problem. The Pangolin is thought to have medicinal value in China, which it does not. They kill hundreds of thousands of Pangolins. Pangolins also sell for a lot of money in China. All for nothing! Their ignorance is so wasteful, its sickening. Wasting an animal species and wasting the money spent on them. If extremists must hate a country, China is far more deserving of their hate than America.
“I discovered the species, and I watched as it became endangered. If it becomes extinct in front of me, I’ll feel so guilty.” And so, you should.
Why should he feel guilty? He is trying to protect them. Others should feel guilty, but not him.
What these pikas need is high elevations and cold climates. Meaning humans need to take climate change seriously.
No, what these pikas need is to come to my house and hang out with me. I’ve got a big bed, and we could pile in and form a big ball of pika luv. Sigh…
I find it hard to believe anything related to a rabbit is going extinct. That’s all they do!
THEY NEED TO GET ON THAT LIST! LET’S NOT LET ANOTHER SPECIES GET AWAY!
They live in craggy rocky areas and have a very low tolerance for heat.
People doesn’t care about anything but development!!!! Why ? After all they wore here 1.
This were the same with the White Lions. When the White Lion of Bona Bona Game Lodger were discovered in the mid – 1970s, they become the subject of much interest and debate in South Africa. Many people are still under the opinion and impression that the white lion are a different species. The truth is that this is a natural phenomenon that occurs due to “Leucism” as detailed below. Every so often we are treated to glimpse of these incredible animals.
The white Lion roam South Africa kingdom for many years due to extinction some private owners had to start projects to save the
species. Bona Bona White Lion project can be proud to announce that one of our Lions females recently gave birth to two white cubs.
White coats of the White Lion were not product of ”albinism” but a venom inane called “Leucism” this is a rear event, the white mutation, which affected tow of the pigment involved in coat colouration, is expressed only when two conditions pertain. Both parents carry white gene. The offspring inherit the recessive gene of each parent, otherwise if the cub receive the dominant tawny gene its pelt will be orangey to white
Someone mentioned about they may have a negative impact on the world because they are rabbits. I think you are talking about humans they have more of a negative impact on the world and the beautiful animals that live in it than any rabbit could have.
Funny about that Andrew I am from Australia and I know about the rabbits but who introduced them into Australia. Oh yes was it humans, I think it was just like the toads. Stop blaming animals for our blunders they don’t know anything other than to survive humans are suppose to be the intelligent ones
As a rabbit sanctuary for almost 15 years now I totally agree. Humans have a tendency to blame and abuse or exploit poor, innocent animals far too much for no better reason than total ignorance.
If they’re really rabbits their numbers will increase really fast! F*** like rabbits is a saying for a reason
They’re a distant cousin of the rabbit, so they probably don’t have the same breeding frenzy as normal rabbits. Normal rabbits can get pregnant whilst already pregnant and that’s probably evolution trying to keep their numbers high because they’re food to many species including humans and are lucky to live more than a couple of years in the wild. These little fellas we don’t know much about, maybe their living in high grounds means they don’t need to worry about survival nearly as much and have a lesser sex drive. Trying to spot more than one and spending a few years watching their activities should help give clues to how they survive and breed and whether it should be more of a major concern to begin breeding programs or not to raise their numbers.
Maybe their numbers are just fine. Perhaps they are not wanting to be seen.
Is it possible to import a few of them to the US and start a breeding program? I understand China has many restrictions but if they aren’t interested in these creatures, perhaps they would allow us to cultivate a community of them for preservation. I have friends that run exotic sanctuaries and have imported other species over the years. Does anyone know how to contact Li?
This is the first one sighted in decades. Let’s hope Li can get land set aside for a protected sanctuary for it/them. Then we can think about import/export.
Just catch some of them and put in nice fenced and secured place and help them breed – and share them with zoos and nature lovers – and before you know it, there will be millions of them as pets, and then people can reintroduce them to wild in some natural preserves and help them be happy for years to come.
The article said it was thought they were extinct. This is the first one sighted. Someone needs to provide it, hopefully, them a protected sanctuary in their own habitat for now.

 Sign up to get the latest science news delivered weekly right to your inbox!
