2015-01~03
http://www.i24news.tv/en/news/international/asia-pacific/57768-150115-china-bans-wearing-burqa-in-muslim-xinjiang

China bans wearing burqa in Muslim Xinjiang | i24news - See beyond
By using our website, you accept the use of cookies in order to enjoy an optimal navigation with offers relevant to your interests, and to allow us to perform web analytics. 
More information

credits/photos : AFPCapital of China's Xinjiang to ban burqas in public: report
Chinese authorities have banned women in Urumqi, the capital city of Xinjiang—an autonomous western region where Muslims account for almost half of the population—from wearing burqas in public, government-run website, Tianshan News, said Monday.
Residents have been banned from wearing burqas in the city of 3.1 million people, in "an effort to curb growing extremism," state media had announced.
"Burqas are not [a] traditional dress for Uighur women, and wearing them in public places is banned in countries such as Belgium and France," reported Xinhua, China's official news agency.
Xinjiang is home to the Uighurs, a largely Muslim, Turkic-speaking group as well as a growing number of Han Chinese migrants who have poured into the region which borders Pakistan, Afghanistan and Kazakhstan.
China has previously launched drives to discourage women from covering their faces, and security officials often log details of those wearing burqas, an Islamic garment that covers the eyes as well as the whole face and body.
In July 2014, Xinjiang had banned civil servants, students and teachers from fasting during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan.
The authorities in Xinjiang have also restricted men from having long beards, clamped down on religious education activities, and acted to control the entrances and exits to mosques.
A "Project Beauty" campaign in the predominantly Uighur city of Kashgar saw a publicity offensive encouraging women not to wear traditional Islamic clothing.
Authorities in another Xinjiang city, Karamay, in August banned people wearing hijabs, niqabs, burqas, or clothing with the Islamic star and crescent symbol from local buses.
Rights groups say that harsh police treatment of Uighurs and campaigns against some religious practices has stoked violence.
Beijing has blamed "separatists" from Xinjiang for a wave of deadly incidents in and beyond the region, which have been labelled "terrorism" by Beijing.
Several hundred people have died this year, and Xinjiang witnessed its bloodiest incident since 2009 when 37 civilians and 59 "terrorists" were killed in an attack on a police station and government offices in Shache county, also known as Yarkand, in July.
Five years ago, rioting involving Uighurs and members of China's Han majority left around 200 people dead in Urumqi.
China defends its policies in Xinjiang, arguing that it has boosted economic development in the area and that it upholds minority and religious rights in a country with 56 recognized ethnic groups.