2015-01~03
http://www.thestatesman.net/news/101729-china-deploys-more-troops-in-xinjiang-to-plug-infiltration.html

The Statesman: In talks with Pak on media ban on LeT coverage: US
The Union finance minister said revamped insurance schemes that were launched had the potential to reduce distress in the farm sector.
The PDP chief spoke to media persons and termed her meeting with Narendra Modi 'good and very positive'.
The union home minister said that no decision has been taken with regard to withdraw Assam Rifles from the Indo-Myanmar border.
Belgium PM Charles Michel said priority is to rescue the victims of the blasts that struck Brussels.
Myanmar's president-elect Htin Kyaw nominated Aung San Suu Kyi to join the cabinet, giving the National League for Democracy leader a formal role in the government.
Pakistan observes its National Day on March 23, to mark the anniversary of the resolution for Pakistan at the Muslim League's Lahore meeting in 1940.
The training session was scheduled for Tuesday afternoon at the King Baudouin stadium.
The midfielder feels his former boss will fit in well at United and Antonio Conte will do a good job at Chelsea too.
The overall viewer experience is enhanced as the audience is now privy to an aspect that was earlier out of bounds earlier.
Chinese colours, sprinklers and waterguns are flying off the shelves while local manufacturers are facing losses of up to 75 per cent, Assocham said.
Grove authored best-selling books and widely cited articles, and spoke out on an array of prominent public issues.
Negative Chinese indices and profit booking, dragged the Indian equity markets lower during the late-afternoon trade session on Tuesday.
The Sufi conference inaugurated by Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Thursday last appears to have been part of a well-planned scheme of the BJP to create confusion among Muslims.
With Obama’s historic visit to Cuba, the US President and his counterpart, Raul Castro, have scripted a watershed chapter in what is often referred to as Pan-American history.
There have been many military intervention by the UN in the second half of the 20th century; running the gamut from large-sized interventions to small-scale ones.
The LG said the govt is committed to honest administration.
The CM allegedly gave "misleading information" in his affidavit ahead of 2013 polls.
Police said the call regarding flight 9W832 was received at around 4 pm.
The service will benefit tourists and visitors to the grand precinct.
The party has initially opposed an alliance with the Congress.
About 10,64,039 cases are pending in lower courts across the state.
Bhitarkanika National Park forest personnel made the arrests on Monday.
As many as 41 elephants died due to poaching, poisoning, deliberate electrocution and accidental electrocution.
The festival is celebrated in the spring season with colours and water, much like Holi, but with additional Manipuri features.
The philosophy, life and cultural influences of the Parsis in India, whose Zoroastrianism faith is considered among the world's oldest religions
Different types of Holi celebrated across the country include traditional, warrior, royal, stick or cultural.
With a low calorie diet, even Type 2 diabetes can be reversed.
Dipesh chakrabarty, a professor at the University Of Chicago, recently delivered a lecture on the implications of climate change on human history in Kolkata.
With the Central University of Jammu entering into a tie-up with the only Press Club in the state, students are guaranteed hands-on experience.
Cricket match between India and Pak sees the level of madness raised to an impossible pitch.
"#Brussels bound @jetairways flight from #Delhi has landed," the actress tweeted.
The US has said that it is in talks with Pakistan regarding that country's recent move to ban media coverage of terrorist outfits including Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).
"All I can tell you is we're aware of them, we're looking into them, we're talking about this with Pakistani leaders," State Department Spokesman, John Kirby, told reporters.
"I'm going to refer you to Pakistan for the reasoning behind its decisions," he said.
Pakistan on November 2 banned media coverage of militant groups like the Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD) as part of a crackdown on terror, acknowledging for the first time that the Mumbai attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed-led outfit was a wing of the LeT.
The Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority (PEMRA) had issued a notification banning all satellite TV channels and FM radio from coverage of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD) and Falah-e-Insaniat Foundation (FIF) under UN restriction.
"The Jamaat-ud-Dawa and Falah-e-Insaniat Foundation are the other wings of Lashkar-e-Taiba," the PEMRA notification said.
"What I can tell you is we recognise there's a balance to be struck here between the fight against terrorism and media freedom. It's a balance that every nation has to strike.
Pakistan should speak for itself and for why it made this decision and how it's going to execute this decision.
"What I can tell you is, you know, we continue to discuss this issue with leaders in Pakistan and we'll do that," he said.