2015-01~03
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2869905/Capital-Chinas-Xinjiang-ban-burqas-public-report.html?ITO=1490&ns_campaign=1490

Capital of China's Xinjiang to ban burqas in public | Daily Mail Online

Published:
 06:48 EST, 11 December 2014

 | 
Updated:
 05:38 EST, 14 January 2015


Authorities in the capital of China's Xinjiang province, where nearly half of the population is Muslim, has banned the wearing of burqas in public.
The ban of Islamic veils is an 'effort to curb growing extremism' by China's ruling communist party, local media reports. 
The government in Urumqi, a city with a population of more than 3million, voted through the ban last week, a move which experts fear may spark more unrest in the already troubled region. 
New law: Uighur women shop at a bazaar in Xinjiang region, where local government has imposed a ban on wearing full Islamic veil, the burqa, in public
Xinjiang is the largest province in China, and despite only about 4.3 per cent of the land area being fit for human habitation, it is home to more than 22million people, nearly half of which are Muslim Uighur.
Hundreds have died in ethnic clashes across the restive far western region in recent months, with Beijing vowing to 'strike hard' against violence.
The local legislature in Xinjiang 'considered and adopted "Regulations for the banning of wearing of burqas in public areas in Urumqi'', on Wednesday'  the Sina web news portal said.
The ban only applies to the full Islamic veil, the burqa, which covers the face and eyes, and not the hijab, which covers the hair and neck.
'Burqas are not traditional dress for Uighur women, and wearing them in public places is banned in countries such as Belgium and France,' Xinhua, China's official news agency, wrote in a brief article about the ban. 
Minority: Chinese paramilitary police stand guard in Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang Province, as an Uighur woman in hijab walks past
China has previously launched drives to discourage women from covering their faces, and security officials often log details of those wearing burqas, an Islamic garment that covers the eyes as well as the whole face and body.
A 'Project Beauty' campaign in the predominantly Uighur city of Kashgar saw a publicity offensive encouraging women not to wear traditional Islamic clothing.
Authorities in another Xinjiang city, Karamay, in August banned people wearing hijabs, niqabs, burqas, or clothing with the Islamic star and crescent symbol from local buses.
Rights groups say that harsh police treatment of Uighurs and campaigns against some religious practices has stoked violence.
Beijing has blamed 'separatists' from Xinjiang for a wave of deadly incidents in and beyond the region, which have been labelled 'terrorism' by Beijing.
Several hundred people have died this year, and Xinjiang witnessed its bloodiest incident since 2009 when 37 civilians and 59 'terrorists' were killed in an attack on a police station and government offices in Shache county, also known as Yarkand, in July.
Five years ago, rioting involving Uighurs and members of China's Han majority left around 200 people dead in Urumqi.
China defends its policies in Xinjiang, arguing that it has boosted economic development in the area and that it upholds minority and religious rights in a country with 56 recognised ethnic groups. 

 The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group