2015-01~03
http://www.aljazeera.com/news/2015/03/china-executes-uighurs-convicted-mass-stabbing-150324094334622.html

China executes Uighurs convicted of mass stabbing - Al Jazeera English
Meet the refugees who fled Syria for the Gaza Strip
24 Mar 2015 11:20 GMT | Xinjiang, Uighur, China, Asia
China has executed three accused separatists for their role in an attack that killed 31 people at a train station in the country's southwest last year.
Tuesday's announcement of the execution came six months after Iskandar Ehet, Turgun Tohtunyaz and Hasayn Muhammad, were sentenced to death after being convicted of homicide and leading a terrorist organisation.
A higher court later upheld the sentence, the official Xinhua news agency reported.
The government has said the attack, in the city of Kunming, was carried out by knife-wielding separatists from the far western region of Xinjiang, which is located on the borders of Central Asia.
Police shot four other assailants dead during the knife attack, which injured 141 people on March 1, 2014.
Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur minority group, has been plagued by unrest in recent years. Some Uighurs have chafed under Chinese restrictions on their culture and religion.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the exiled World Uyghur Congress, said the defendants were denied a fair trial.
"China's use of the death penalty as a political tool does not address the root of the problem," he said in an e-mail to the Reuters news agency.
"China continues to make use of this incident to incite discrimination against Uighurs."
The Chinese government denies accusations of official discrimination against Uighurs, and says all trials are carried out fairly and in accordance with the rule of law.
Rights groups have expressed concern about executions and mass-sentencings carried out regularly since an upswing in violence blamed in the restive province.
Another female attacker, Patigul Tohti, who was pregnant when she was arrested, received a life sentence, Xinhua said.
Ethnic tensions on the rise in China's vast western frontier.
Beijing says a "terrorist gang" of six men and two women was responsible for Saturday's attack that killed 29 people.

 Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
 are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
 or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
 global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
 accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.

A crew of underground rappers in Havana fight for a free Cuba by taking the young to task over their apathy.
Aboriginal communities taking their cases against oil pipeline and seismic testing to Supreme Court of Canada.
Who dies and where they were shot determines how much attention their deaths get and how many questions are asked.
The Gulf’s ace women's tennis player is putting the region on the world tennis map and eyeing an historic Olympic spot.
Ethnic tensions on the rise in China's vast western frontier.
Beijing says a "terrorist gang" of six men and two women was responsible for Saturday's attack that killed 29 people.
Death toll rises to more than 30 in twin assaults on airport and metro station as Western Europe enters lock-down mode.
Shock and fear spread in Belgian capital after explosions at Zaventem airport and Maelbeek metro station.
Nigeria's first female mechanic views her country through the prism of opportunity and enterprise for women.
Latin American migrants risk life and limb to reach the US border in search of the American dream.
The incredible story of 18 cows that became Israel's most wanted fugitives and symbols of Palestinian resistance.