2015-01~03
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/231332905

Police Raids Yield No Clues About Kidnapped Uyghur Village Police Chief - China National News
A wide-ranging police search for an ethnic Uyghur security chief kidnapped by a group of Uyghurs in an area known for violence between the ethnic group and Han Chinese in China's restive, far-western Xinjiang region has so far yielded no clues, local police said.
Imin Memtimin, 41, who has played an active role in police operations in Sadiqawat village of Baghchi township in Hotan county, was kidnapped by unknown men from his home on the morning of March 9.
Police have been conducting raids of homes in the village in hopes of determining the identities of the kidnappers and finding Memtimin, who served as a police officer from 2010 to 2012 and was later promoted to Sadiqawat's security chief. ?
"The investigation teams from the county and prefectural levels have been stationed in the village," a police officer at the Baghchi township police station told RFA's Uyghur Service.
Hotan (Hetian in Chinese) prefecture in southwestern part of Xinjiang has been rife with stabbing and shooting incidents between ethnic, mostly Muslim Uyghurs and Chinese security forces, with attacks coming amid a string of assaults and bombings across the region, formally called the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.
Adil Ismayil, deputy chief of Hotan country's Public Security Department, who is leading an investigation team of seven officers in conducting the raids, told RFA that the operation is still under way in the prefecture, but his authority was limited in terms of disclosing information about the case.
Four kidnappers wearing black masks over their faces and carrying sticks entered Memtimin's house at 2 a.m. on March 9, said Memtimin Tursuntohti, a police officer in Sadiqawat village.
The kidnappers, who may also have had knives, told Memtimin to be silent and come with them, he said.
"They allowed him to wear his clothes, then took him without touching anything in the house," he said. "They pushed his wife away while she was asking, 'Who you are? Where are you taking him to?'"
At first, Memtimin's wife thought that police were taking away her husband for presumably doing something wrong at work, but she became aware that the men were kidnappers when she saw the sticks in their hands instead of guns, Tursuntohti said.
The kidnappers told Memtimin's wife, who later relayed the information to police, to take care of herself and her children, but she fainted from the scare, Tursuntohti said.
"According this information, we know that the kidnappers were Uyghur, but still we don't know further information about their identities," he said, adding that the prefectural-level investigation team might know more about the incident because they came to the scene with technical equipment.
"So far, we've interrogated more than 1,000 people and detained more than 200 as suspects," in Sadiqawat village, Tursuntohti said, adding that he did not know how many people had been detained in other villages and counties. ?
"It is clear for me that the whereabouts of our security chief Imin Memtimin are still unknown," he said.
Azat Mijit, chief of Sadiqawat village, said the village had remained free of any violent incidents, although some residents had heard of such incidents occurring elsewhere.
"That is why we are in a weak position in terms of collaborating with the police investigation," he said. "No home has been skipped during the raids in my village, but still we have no valuable information about the kidnappers and the whereabouts of the security chief."
Mijit said it was difficult for authorities higher up to keep news of the incident quiet so as not to encourage terrorists or scare off Han Chinese who live in the area.
"But they have been forced to disclose the incident given the circumstances of the investigation," he said.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Kunshan (China), March 21 (IANS) India were placed in a relatively easy group in the women's section but the men's team did not prove to be as lucky at the draw for the prestigious Thomas and Uber Cup Finals badminton tournament that was held here on Monday.
In the men's section -- the Thomas Cup -- the Indian team have been drawn along with 13-times winners Indonesia and strong contenders Thailand and Hong Kong China in Group B.
The women's team have been placed in Group D of the Uber Cup alongside Japan -- the runners-up in the last edition in 2014 -- Australia and Germany.
The tournament will be held here in Kunshan from May 15-22.
Meanwhile, Thomas Cup defending champions Japan and top seeds China found themselves in the same group as the draw. The two powerhouses were drawn in Group A alongside France and Mexico, ensuring that the starting stage of the finals itself should be an intensely competitive affair.
Second seeds Denmark, in Group D, were drawn along with Chinese Taipei, New Zealand and South Africa while Group C has South Korea, Malaysia, England and Germany.
In the Uber Cup competition, hosts and defending champions China will have to contend with European power Denmark in Group A. Their group-mates are Spain and Malaysia.
Group B consists of Korea, Chinese Taipei, Mauritius and USA, while Group C has Thailand, Indonesia, Bulgaria and Hong Kong China.
Sixteen teams each in the Thomas Cup and Uber Cup qualified for the final rounds based on their performance in the continental team championships and team rankings. The No.1 and No.2 seeded teams were separated in the draw by placing them at the top of Group A and Group D respectively. The other teams and corresponding group positions were then picked by the invited dignitaries.
The top two teams in each group will make it to the knockout stages. There will be another draw for the quarter-finals.

UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved