2015-01~03
http://www.aljazeera.com/news/2015/03/thailand-continue-keeping-17-uighurs-custody-150327094339442.html

Thailand to continue keeping 17 'Uighurs' in custody - Al Jazeera English
Meet the refugees who fled Syria for the Gaza Strip
27 Mar 2015 12:28 GMT | Asia Pacific, China, Thailand, Turkey
A family of 17 suspected Uighur Muslims at the centre of a diplomatic tug-of-war between Turkey and China will remain in custody until their nationalities are proven after a Thai court has rejected their argument that their prolonged detention was illegal.
The court ruled on Friday that Thai immigration had the right to detain the group but made no ruling on their nationality. Turkey and China both claim the detainees as nationals in a dispute with potential implications for hundreds of other suspected Uighur detainees and to where they should be repatriated.
"There are more than 300 Uighurs here in detention for illegally entering Thailand. So for the time being all of them are now caught in this diplomatic tug-of-war," said Al Jazeera's Scott Heidler, reporting from the Thai capital Bangkok.
The group, who use the name Teklimakan, has been in detention for a year. The group plans to appeal against the decision, their lawyer Worasit Piriyawiboon said. "I don't agree with the court decision and I'm ready to fight," Worasit said on Friday.Turkish passports Thai police detained the group, all from the same family, in March 2014 after they illegally entered Thailand overland from Cambodia. Two of the 13 children in the group were born in custody. The family claimed to be Turkish and, while still in detention, were issued with passports by the Turkish embassy and granted permission to travel to Turkey. China insists the 17 detainees are Chinese Uighurs who should be returned to the northwest Chinese region of Xinjiang, according to court documents seen by the Reuters news agency.
Hundreds of people have been killed in unrest in Xinjiang in the past two years, prompting a crackdown by Chinese authorities, and small numbers of Uighurs have tried to flee. Hundreds, possibly thousands, have travelled clandestinely through Southeast Asia to Turkey. The Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking people officially regarded as "brothers" in Turkey, which already hosts large Uighur populations.
Why the Uighur people will continue to reject China's colonial and apartheid rule.
Follow the story of exiled Uighur Muslims of Central Asia, many of whom fled Chinese control of their land in 1949.

 Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
 are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
 or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
 global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
 accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.

A crew of underground rappers in Havana fight for a free Cuba by taking the young to task over their apathy.
Aboriginal communities taking their cases against oil pipeline and seismic testing to Supreme Court of Canada.
Who dies and where they were shot determines how much attention their deaths get and how many questions are asked.
The Gulf’s ace women's tennis player is putting the region on the world tennis map and eyeing an historic Olympic spot.
Why the Uighur people will continue to reject China's colonial and apartheid rule.
Follow the story of exiled Uighur Muslims of Central Asia, many of whom fled Chinese control of their land in 1949.
Death toll rises to more than 30 in twin assaults on airport and metro station as Western Europe enters lock-down mode.
Shock and fear spread in Belgian capital after explosions at Zaventem airport and Maelbeek metro station.
Nigeria's first female mechanic views her country through the prism of opportunity and enterprise for women.
Latin American migrants risk life and limb to reach the US border in search of the American dream.
The incredible story of 18 cows that became Israel's most wanted fugitives and symbols of Palestinian resistance.