2015-01~03
http://www.scmp.com/comment/insight-opinion/article/1681042/after-paris-attacks-state-papers-offer-feeble-argument

After Paris attacks, state papers offer feeble argument for limits on press | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
After violence at Charlie Hebdo office, state papers push line that unchecked media ultimately worsens social tensions
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Like elsewhere in the world, the mainland media have devoted several rounds of commentary to the attack on the Paris offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.
Initially, state media joined in the international chorus of condemnation, following a statement from President Xi Jinping, who said "terrorism is a common enemy of all mankind and a common threat to the entire international community".
Mainland coverage focused on the threat of terrorism, ignoring the questions and concerns about press freedom that the tragedy posed. "We believe that no reason in the world can justify terrorist behaviour," said the Global Times, a tabloid affiliated with Communist Party mouthpiece People's Daily.
Beijing has voiced support before for the West's fight against terrorism in the past, as it confronts what it views as a security threat from Islamic radicals based in Xinjiang , home to the Uygur ethnic minority.
But the sympathetic views in state media were shortlived and soon replaced by daily commentaries questioning press freedom in the West.
Some said the liberties had caused "ethnic tensions and conflict of civilisation". Others said constraints should be placed on media to avoid such tragedies. "The press freedom of the West is not helping to solve the conflicts between different races, and what's worse, it may intensify them," China Daily said. It asked: "What on earth are the boundaries between respect for religion and freedom of the press?" - a protestation that some Uygurs and Tibetans, who argue that their cultural and religious identities are being erased, might find grimly ironic.
The Global Times said the "murders illustrate the pitfalls of press freedom", while state agency Xinhua said the incident suggested "there should be a limit on press freedom".
In their responses, most Chinese commentators seemed not to understand that a free press in the West means journalists and commentators can question and criticise the beliefs of others - including religious and political ideology - within the limits of democratically decided law.
People in such societies see press freedom as essential to the protection of human rights and individual liberty.
In the case of Charlie Hebdo, most mainstream opinion across the world believed that the magazine had either exercised its right within the limits of law, or those offended could seek reparation through the courts.
Thus there should be no question that the occasional conflict between free speech and religion can justify restricting the freedom of the press, as the mainland's state media had called for. Such comments belie the contradictions in the Communist Party's stance. The constitution says citizens should "enjoy freedom of speech, of the press, of assembly, of association, of procession and of demonstration". Beijing has also signed, though the legislature has not yet approved, the United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states: everyone has the right to freedom of opinion.
In reality, party leaders see press freedom as a threat to communist authoritarian rule. Thus party propagandists and censors use every possible problem in the West to justify their repression of press freedom. And that's why the mainland, despite its impressive economic progress, has maintained one of the strictest censorship systems in the world.