2015-01~03
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/11460847/Official-claims-China-has-best-religious-policy-in-the-world.html

Official claims China has ‘best religious policy in the world’ - Telegraph
A prominent Islamic leader from China’s violence-stricken west has claimed the Communist Party’s religious policies are the "best in the world", despite activists accusing Beijing of waging an increasingly repressive campaign against religion.
Speaking on Tuesday morning, Abudulrekep Tumniyaz, a pro-government cleric, painted an unusually rosy picture of religious affairs in Xinjiang, a sprawling border region that is currently witnessing a major government offensive against religious extremism and terrorism.
“Our religious policy is the best in the world,” Mr Abudulrekep, the dean of the Xinjiang Islamic Institute, told a session of China’s annual rubber stamp parliament.
“In Xinjiang people can choose freely [which religion to follow],” the 52-year-old imam added.
Xinjiang, a vast region of snow-capped mountains is home to the Uighurs

Beijing assembles people's army to crush China terrorists with an iron fist


China bans burqa in capital of Muslim region of Xinjiang

Xinjiang, a vast and spectacular region of snow-capped mountains and scorching deserts, is home to the Uighurs, a largely Muslim ethnic minority who frequently complain of Beijing’s curtailment of their religious freedoms.
Under-18s are not permitted to enter mosques while women were recently banned from wearing the burka in the Urumqi, the capital.
Activists say an already dire situation has worsened dramatically since a “strike hard” security drive began last May following a suicide attack in Urumqi that killed 31 people.
Since that attack authorities have “stepped up already onerous restrictions on Islam with the stated aim of fighting ‘violent terrorism and religious extremism’,” Amnesty International claimed in a report released last month.
Some schools deliberately handed out sweets to Muslim children during Ramadan to prevent them fasting, the report said. Communist Party officials were punished for their faith. “Outward signs of adherence to Islam such as beards or veils were often banned,” it added.
During a visit to Yining, on Xinjiang’s border with Kazakhstan, last year The Telegraph witnessed Chinese security forces performing intimidating nightly parades in front of the city’s Bayatulla mosque.
William Nee, a Hong Kong-based Amnesty researcher, questioned the imam’s assertion about Beijing’s religious policies.
“I find that really unbelievable that he would say such a thing. Freedom of religion is systematically violated in China in general but in the Xinjiang Autonomous Region in particular,” he said.
“The strike hard campaign is very worrying because it appears that a lot of the crackdown is a crackdown on religious practice in the region.”
However, Xinjiang’s Muslims were not the only ones suffering because of the officially atheist Communist Party’s hardline on religion, Mr Nee added, pointing to a wave of church demolitions in east China and the ongoing harassment of underground Christian communities.
Abudulrekep Tumniyaz, who is also the deputy director of Xinjiang Islamic Association, was born in Xinjiang’s Shanshan County in 1962. He became an imam at the age of 28 and a delegate to the Communist Party-controlled parliament in 2013, according to official profiles.
He met with Xi Jinping, China’s president, during a tour of the region last May. “Xi said he hopes religious leaders like Abudulrekep could help people stay away from extremism,” state media reported.

In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


Many dead and injured after bombs detonated at Belgium airport and metro


Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


In pics: A series of mysterious light paintings by artist duo from 
 Montreal 


From chokers and statement earrings to granny chic details, get ahead of the 
 curve with these simple flourishes 


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


A daredevil slackliner, azaleas in full bloom and Obama meets Castro 
