2015-01~03
http://www.dawn.com/news/1158080&c=6DbXc7loXN1ZHKqnPMamZ2psf2slAk4tTV4EDNQCrjw&mkt=en-us

Two Uighurs trying to enter Vietnam shot dead - Newspaper - DAWN.COM
BEIJING: Police in southern China shot dead two Uighurs trying to cross the border into Vietnam, state media reported on Monday, with rights groups saying repression at home causes members of the ethnic minority to flee.
Officers discovered a group of Uighurs near a highway toll gate on Sunday evening and two who “assaulted” the officers with knives were shot dead, the government-run China News Service said.
Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking and mostly Muslim ethnic minority, whose resource-rich homeland Xinjiang has seen intensifying and increasingly sophisticated attacks, sometimes spreading beyond it.
Two more people were detained while police were still searching for a fifth in Pingxiang city in the southern region of Guangxi, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.
At least 200 people have been killed in a series of clashes over the past year linked to Xinjiang, with authorities blaming religious extremists and separatists in the far northwest region.
Rights groups argue that harsh police treatment of the Uighur minority, as well as government campaigns and bans against religious practices such as the wearing of veils have led to violence.
“China is using extreme means like shooting and killing these people in order to intimidate other Uighurs who wish to escape,” said Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the Munich-based World Uyghur Congress.
“There is a direct relationship between China’s repressive policies and the increase in those trying to escape. “Hundreds of people believed to be Uighurs were detained in Thailand last year, claiming they were Turkish citizens in order to avoid being sent back to China. Chinese authorities launched a crackdown on illegal emigration in the wake of their case.
Police have seized 352 alleged human smugglers and detained 852 suspects who tried to cross China’s southwestern border since moves to stamp out illegal immigration were launched in April, Xinhua said.
On a mobile phone? Get the Dawn Mobile App: Apple Store | Google Play
There is no difference between North Korea and China. Both are authoritarian states which kill innocent people. No Human rights. That is why both countries are disliked by the world.
Our country should talk to China about this, if we have the guts to call spade a spade!
I am waiting for the day when Pakistanis tweet #savemuslimsinchina.

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
