2015-01~03
http://www.news.com.au/world/asia/chinas-jailing-of-man-for-growing-a-beard-labelled-absurd/story-fnh81fz8-1227285788129

China jails man for growing beard: reports | Islam crackdown
1:31 AMCorey Sinclair, Victoria Craw LIVE updates: Eyewitnesses have spoken of their horror at seeing blood and bodies destroyed by bombs one worker believes was planted in luggage.
1:27 AMCharlotte Willis AN Aussie exchange student is among those trapped in Brussels in the wake of a series of blasts that have killed at least 34 people.
0:41 AMVictoria Craw and James Matthey FRENCH President Francois Hollande has called for a blunt response to the terrorist attacks in Brussels.
A Malaysian team is heading to South Africa to inspect a piece of debris found along the coast to check if it's from missing flight MH370.
22:25 PMCharles Miranda in London ONCE known as the home of the European Commission and NATO, Brussels is now being seen as the home of jihadist forces.
22:20 PMRobyn Ironside National Travel Writer ISRAELI-style security could become a feature at Australian and other western airports in the wake of the Brussels bombings, a counter-terrorism expert has suggested.
21:21 PMVictoria Craw AN INDIAN actress hits out at those photoshopping faces onto porn films, saying those who are sharing it had not embarrassed her.
21:12 PMBy Lauren Farrow And Heru Rahadi Already known for its traffic woes, Jakarta has become even more clogged with taxi drivers taking to the streets to protest against Uber.
Ethnic Muslims in China have been faced with a growing crackdown by the Chinese government on displays of their faith
A MAN in China has reportedly been sentenced to six years in prison for growing a beard, prompting outrage from an activist group.
Chinese state media reported the sentence in China’s predominantly Muslim Xinjiang region, and it was picked up by international news outlets. But accounts of the penalty have since vanished from Chinese online media.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the exile group World Uyghur Congress, said the case was “typical of the political persecution” faced by Uyghurs, the mostly Muslim, Turkic-speaking minority group that calls Xinjiang home.
“This is a case that would not happen in any other country in the world,” Raxit said in a statement. “It is unacceptable and absurd. It exposes China’s hostile attitude and crisis of governance.
“If a Chinese person grows a beard, it is a personal fashion he is allowed to choose freely. If a Uyghur grows a beard, he is a religious extremist.
“China’s goal is to use judicial means to force Uyghurs to accept Chinese people’s traditions and give up their own way of life.”
On Sunday, the China Youth Daily reported that a court in Xinjiang’s desert oasis city of Kashgar sentenced a 38-year-old Uighur man to six years in jail for growing a beard, while his wife was given two years for veiling herself.
The man “had started growing his beard in 2010” and his wife “wore a veil hiding her face and a burqa”, the paper said. Both practices are discouraged by local authorities.
The couple were found guilty of “picking quarrels and provoking trouble”, a vague accusation regularly used in the Chinese judicial system.
A local trader handling his livestock at the Kashgar Livestock Markets in Xinjiang, China.Source:Supplied
An employee of Kashgar’s propaganda department declined to confirm the report on Monday, telling AFP: “I know nothing about this.” For more than a year the authorities in Xinjiang have been campaigning against men growing beards — a practice officials associate with extremist ideas.
A campaign dubbed “Project Beauty” also encourages women to leave their heads bare and abandon wearing the veil, which some Muslims see as a religious requirement.
Rights groups believe Beijing’s repression of Uyghur culture and religion has fanned tensions in Xinjiang, a resource-rich region that abuts Central Asia.
Violence increased last year and at least 200 people were killed in a series of bombings and deadly clashes with security forces, blamed by Beijing on “separatists” and “religious extremists”.
Beijing defends its policies, arguing it has boosted economic development in the area and that it upholds minority and religious rights in a country with 55 recognised ethnic minorities as well as the Han majority.
Foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters: “The Chinese government will do its best to promote stability and economic development as well as harmonious coexistence of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang.” By Monday the China Youth Daily report and several other articles on the case had been deleted from mainland news sites.
The initial accounts incited debate among users of China’s popular online social networks. Some said the punishment was an appropriate way to guard against extremism.
“Anyone dressed that way is a terrorist, not a Muslim!” wrote one user on Sina Weibo, a Chinese equivalent of Twitter.
Others dismissed the anti-beard campaign as a “simple and crude” measure that would do little to ensure public safety.
Some referred to the spectacularly hirsute German political theorist whose writings are a cornerstone of Communist Party ideology to this day, with one asking: “How many years would Marx have been sentenced to?”
A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. Find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out.
News Limited Copyright © . All times on this site are AEDT (GMT +11).