2015-01~03
http://tacstrat.com/content/index.php/2015/03/06/chinas-slow-and-steady-move-into-afghanistan/

China's slow and steady move into Afghanistan - TACSTRAT
The first round of recent strategic trilateral dialogue between China, Pakistan and Afghanistan has been held on 10 February 2015 in Kabul. Though, the meeting that was concluded between the three sides has mainly focused on the Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace process for which both Pakistan and China has expressed their full support like the past meetings.
What lies besides this is important for India. From the year 2012, when the first Afghanistan-China- Pakistan trilateral dialogue was held in Beijing, to 2015 meeting that has been recently held, a lot of changes can be identified in the Chinese approach towards Afghanistan. In 2012, Chinese interest in Afghanistan was limited to supporting Pakistan to increase its influence and control in the country. But slowly and strategically, China has increased its role and influence in the economic and political scenarios in Afghanistan through its direct involvement and intensified its Afghan Diplomacy.
In the recent meeting, the three sides agreed to carry out practical cooperation program under the Trilateral Strategic Dialogue and to deepen cooperation in the fields of counter-terrorism and security. It has been argued that China’s increased involvement in Afghanistan is in view to fill the power vacuum created in the aftermath of the US and NATO troops’ withdrawal with increasing apprehension that the void could lead to Al-Qaeda and Taliban staging a comeback. China has already beefed up security along the Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK) and Afghanistan to prevent infiltration of the militants supporting the East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM). It is this movement that is said to be behind the violent attacks in the volatile Xinjiang where the Uyghur Muslims were restive over settlements of Hans.
However, the recent developments in which China has extended support to build a hydro-dam and improve railway and highway connectivity between Pakistan and Afghanistan proves that it is no more going to keep a low position and the Communist giant seeks to play a larger role in the war-torn country. Furthermore, bilateral meetings were also held between Afghanistan and Chinese sides to discuss the greater role China could play. Other then these, many meetings have been held between Afghanistan and Chinese sides at foreign ministerial levels to discuss the cooperation between the two countries. Recently, a delegation representing the Taliban insurgency recently visited China where it held talks with Chinese officials, but few details were made available to media by either side.
These recent diplomatic activities by China and its increasing interest in Afghanistan could be understood as a part of China’s ambitious effort to increase its influence and control in South Asia. China, in the recent past, has build strong inroads in Sri-Lanka, Nepal and Myanmar challenging India and changing the power dynamics in the region.
India is facing the challenge of balancing China in South Asia, a region once dominated by India. Similar challenge exists in Afghanistan too. Besides countering Pakistan, India also has to deal with the Pakistan-China nexus in Afghanistan and for this India needs a strong and well thought counter-strategy. In Afghanistan, India enjoys the edge of cultural closeness, counter-terrorist measures, its democratic and liberal politics and its reputation of a peaceful and stable country. However, the important thing is that how India is and will be using these leverages in its bilateral relation with Afghanistan.
Before the trilateral meeting between Afghanistan, Pakistan and China, The Foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan met the Indian Ambassador to Kabul H.E Amir Shina on 3 February 2015. H.E Mr. Rabbani while expressing his happiness for meeting the Indian Ambassador talked about the historical and friendly ties between the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the Republic of India. In the meeting, India expressed its commitment to continue its assistance to Afghanistan and in the coming year Afghanistan and India will work closely for the implementation of the trade and transit agreement of SAARC and development of Bamyan as the cultural capital of SAARC.
Earlier, on 10 September 2014, Foreign Minister Zarar Ahmad Osmani met with Mrs. Sushma Swaraj the Indian Foreign Minister at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Mr. Osmani called the friendly and historic relations between the two countries very important. Pointing at big projects like the Salma Dam, Afghan Parliament’s Building, the network for transferring electricity from neighboring countries, providing Afghans with scholarships, establishing the Institute of Mines, building the Agriculture University in Kandahar, and the training of Afghan Security Forces, Mr. Osmani said, “The Indian people and government have a special position among the Afghan people and government due to the historic and friendly relations and their generous support for Afghanistan.” Having considered the cooperation with the Afghan people and government one of her government’s main responsibilities, the Indian Foreign Minister said, “Stability and development in Afghanistan is of high importance for the Indian people and government.”
The recent government in New Delhi is trying hard to gain the ground it was gradually losing due to ineffective and immature foreign policy with the neighboring countries. In Afghanistan too, India is trying hard to strengthen the ties and play bigger role to counter the possible terrorist nexus that could become big challenge for India if the Pakistani and Afghan terrorist outfits combines. To strengthen the bilateral ties, India is using the cultural and historical links it had once shared with Afghanistan, i.e., ‘Indian soft power’, besides its involvement in economic activities. However, what India needs now is greater role in the politics of Afghanistan. India, a stable democracy with well tested and successful government structures and disciplined army has more to offer to Afghanistan than its neighboring Pakistan or China.