2015-01~03
http://www.economist.com/news/china/21639555-uighurs-and-tibetans-feel-left-out-chinas-economic-boom-ethnic-discrimination-not

Don’t make yourself at home | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
CHINA is urbanising at a rapid pace. In 2000 nearly two-thirds of its residents lived in the countryside. Today fewer than half do. But two ethnic groups, whose members often chafe at Chinese rule, are bucking this trend. Uighurs and Tibetans are staying on the farm, often because discrimination against them makes it difficult to find work in cities. As ethnic discontent grows, so too does the discrimination, creating a vicious circle.
Breaking this circle is crucial to China’s efforts to defuse unrest in Xinjiang, Tibet and Tibetan-inhabited areas of other provinces, which collectively account for nearly one-third of China’s land area. In Xinjiang, Uighur grievances have triggered numerous outbreaks of violence. On January 12th, in what appeared to be the latest such example, six people were shot dead after allegedly attacking police in Shule, a town near China’s border with Central Asia. Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking, mostly Muslim, minority who number about 10m in Xinjiang. In 2000, 80% of them were farmers; ten years later 83% of them were.
There has been far less violence in Tibet, but separatism in the region is no less a headache for China’s leaders. There are more than 6m Tibetans in Tibet and four neighbouring provinces. The proportion of farmers fell only slightly between 2000 and 2010, from 87% to 83%. Some prefer to stay in the fields. But many others feel excluded from the benefits enjoyed by the ethnic Han Chinese, who make up more than 90% of China’s population. Neither Uighurs nor Tibetans enjoy ready access to the job market that has drawn tens of millions of Han to cities in recent years. They are unwelcome, and they know it.
In 2010 about 1% of Tibetans had settled outside the provinces that encompass their homeland, and less than 1% of Uighurs had migrated from Xinjiang, according to census data compiled by Ma Rong of Peking University. Many of the migrants are either officials or in government-sponsored education programmes. The rate of voluntary exodus from Xinjiang and Tibetan areas is slowing considerably.
Part of the problem is linguistic. Uighurs and Tibetans brought up in the countryside often have a very poor grasp of Mandarin, the official language. The government has tried to promote Mandarin in schools, but has encountered resistance in some places where it is seen as an attempt to suppress native culture. In southern Xinjiang, where most Uighurs live, many schools do not teach it.
But discrimination is a big factor, too. Even some of the best-educated Uighur and Tibetan migrants struggle to find work. Reza Hasmath of Oxford University found that minority candidates in Beijing, for example, were better educated on average than their Han counterparts, but got worse-paying jobs. A separate study found that CVs of Uighurs and Tibetans, whose ethnicities are clearly identifiable from their names (most Uighurs also look physically very different from Han Chinese), generated far fewer calls for interviews.
Government programmes help some Uighurs, Tibetans and other minorities get a better education; affirmative-action policies can boost their chances of going to university. One scheme, known as the Xinjiang Class, sends thousands of Uighurs as well as Han Chinese from Xinjiang every year to other parts of China to complete their schooling. But it also encourages them to return to Xinjiang to work among Uighurs. Official figures suggest that 50% end up going back to Xinjiang. Timothy Grose of Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology in Indiana found that most he interviewed would have preferred not to.
One 25-year-old university graduate from the Xinjiang Class describes her months of difficulty in getting a job in Beijing, before landing one at a foreign-owned company. A large Chinese IT firm rescinded a job offer without explanation on the Friday before she was to start work. Another job interviewer then told her she should go back to Xinjiang. Mr Grose reports that some Xinjiang Class members are put off jobs by being told that they cannot be provided with halal meals.
A rash of terrorist incidents involving Uighurs has not helped. In September the central government stressed the importance of “urban ethnic work”, telling city officials not to adopt a “closed-door” policy to minorities, but also not to take a “laissez-faire attitude”. James Leibold of La Trobe University writes that such confused instructions reflect “a growing realisation that mingling might increase ethnic tensions and conflict”.
The government has made token efforts to create job opportunities for Uighurs on the coast, sending busloads of them to work in factories. But employers are wary. In June 2009 in the southern city of Shaoguan in Guangdong province, a brawl between Uighur and Han Chinese workers at a toy factory left two Uighurs dead and dozens injured. This fuelled ethnically charged riots that erupted a few days later in Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang, in which about 200 died.
Just being a Uighur can draw police attention. In November, while President Barack Obama and other world leaders were in Beijing for a summit, police tried (unsuccessfully) to persuade the landlord of the Xinjiang Class graduate to evict her, saying Uighurs were not welcome. “Sometimes I feel alone,” says the former student. “I feel like I don’t know who I am; where I belong.”
The fall in the price of oil and gas provides a once-in-a-generation opportunity to fix bad energy...
An extraordinary election result gives the country a chance to heal deep wounds
Just as the threat of terrorism is increasing, the ability of Western security agencies to defeat it...
A tumbling currency reflects Europe’s dismal prospects; it is a second-best route to curing them
In future disasters the West should not treat the victims or the government like bystanders
The attacks on Charlie Hebdo and a kosher supermarket brought the French together. But the unity may...
Western security agencies are losing capabilities they used to count on
A backlash against European Muslims would play into the hands of the killers.
Islamist violence stems much more from recent history than from the faith’s essentials
The GOP has more clout in the states than at any time since the 1920s
The list of possible Republican candidates grows longer and more familiar
Will Barack Obama’s plan for free community college make a difference?
One Dread Pirate is on trial; what about the others?
The high marriage rates of the 1950s are not coming back
Five frustrating years later, an earthquake-torn nation searches for stability
An ousted prime minister faces impeachment. Is it for show?
Narendra Modi finds his economic ambitions jeopardised by his party’s ideology
Tobacco leaf is the last farm product to be relieved of price controls
China has become big in Africa. Now for the backlash
Gaza is sinking amid hostility from Israel, Egypt and its Palestinian brethren
The Russian economy will take a long time to recover. It badly needs structural reforms that it is...
The European Union heads into battle with national governments on energy
A populist election win need not spell disaster for Greece—or for the euro zone
How and why the fortunes of England’s two ancient university towns diverged
David Cameron is smart to duck a TV debate—but not right
A rush of new entrants hope to shake up banking
Stuffed emergency wards are a sign of bigger problems in English hospitals
Britons face a stark electoral choice. It is a pity so few seem aware of it
Courts are increasingly being asked to rule on injuries inflicted during games
Thanks to better technology and improved efficiency, energy is becoming cleaner and more...
Renewables are no longer a fad but a fact of life, supercharged by advances in power storage
Solar is giving hundreds of millions of Africans access to electricity for the first time
The power industry’s main concern has always been supply. Now it is learning to manage demand
The oil giant’s troubles could make it a takeover target, especially if the price of crude keeps...
IBM is not about to go down, but life in the cloud will be tough
Asia’s most successful tycoon has many reasons for shaking up his empire
After a few good years America’s carmakers face a rapid U-turn
Locals, fed up of paying over the odds, are shopping abroad
Being a good networker pays off—but it requires skill as well as shamelessness
As markets slide, investors should worry more about some price drops than others
A legal dispute and a default illuminate the darker corners of Chinese finance
An ailing economy has staged a partial recovery thanks to cheap oil
The central bank cuts interest rates for the first time in two years
A few countries are taking advantage of lower oil prices to cut subsidies
Why leaving the euro would still be bad for both Greece and the currency area
Women are scarce in some, but not all, academic disciplines. New work suggests the cause may be a...
A new tool in the quest to understand—and co-opt—nature’s secrets of flying
A controversial trial on a mysterious disease continues to yield insights
A master-tenor deconstructs a piece of music he has sung 100 times
The internet causes inequality, selfishness and narcissism, according to a new book
Artists should be identified by race, according to a new show. Is this wise?
Stéphane Charbonnier (“Charb”), cartoonist and editor of Charlie Hebdo, was murdered on January...
Terror in Belgium: The Brussels attacks show that Islamic State is still...
Fudge-ocracy: The way to get ahead in China is to manipulate statistics
Terror in Belgium: Days after the arrest of Europe’s most-wanted...
Dissidents in Azerbaijan: Azerbaijan frees 14 jailed dissidents. The rest...
The Economist explains: How Ireland’s traveller community remains on the...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more