2015-01~03
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2015/01/22/129000-for-shanghai-stampede-victims-draws-debate-online/

$129,000 for Shanghai Stampede Victims Draws Debate Online - China Real Time Report - WSJ
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit http://www.djreprints.com.
This week, government officials announced compensation for victims of Shanghai’s deadly New Year’s Eve stampede. Now, signs of a public backlash have begun to emerge in China’s online public squares over the amount – and whether it should be paid at all.
The city’s government announced Wednesday it would compensate families of the 36 people killed in the stampede with 800,000 yuan ($128,850) each. Compensation for those injured in the disaster would be decided separately, it said.
The city had also fired four officials for their role in the disaster, which took place at the Bund, one of Shanghai’s most famous tourist spots.
Leave me out of this, some microbloggers replied. “The government pays, society pays, but what I don’t understand is, why should taxpayers’ funds be used to pay?” one Weibo user called JoeFang wrote.
Debates over the amount of compensation given following tragedies frequently spring up in China, with varying amounts offered by the government. Last year, relatives of victims of a brutal train station knifing attack accepted 300,000 yuan payments. By contrast, in 2009 following deadly ethnic clashes in Xinjiang, relatives received 420,000 yuan. Meanwhile following a 2011 collision of two high-speed trains near the city of Wenzhou, relatives were given 915,000 yuan.
On Thursday, some Weibo users expressed anger that the government was giving the same amount of compensation that was also handed out to families of six schoolchildren fatally trampled in a stampede in China’s southwestern city of Kunming in September. “How is it that shoes of such different sizes are all priced the same way? I just don’t get it,” one microblogger asked.
The New Year’s Eve tragedy in China’s most populous city also drew memories of the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake in the country’s southwestern Sichuan province, which killed thousands of schoolchildren and drew many citizens into a prolonged fight with the government over compensation issues. “Are the makers of this tragedy paying this compensation?” one Weibo user wrote, referring to the Shanghai deaths. “Back then, [it] was a natural disaster – how was that paid for? And how much was paid?”
Others said official punishments for the stampede, which targeted only district-level officials in the city, fell short of what should’ve been the real targets. “Those in higher positions of authority didn’t even appear among the names [of those punished],” a commenter wrote. “Was the inquiry complete? Or did it just find scapegoats?”
Prison Guards Are Hard to Capture as Jobless Rates Fall
How Do You Do, FNU? Some in U.S. Handle Just One Name
Wall Street’s Former Top Woman Tells Her Side of Lehman’s Collapse
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.