2015-01~03
http://www.economist.com/news/asia/21645837-chances-are-growing-afghan-taliban-will-be-brought-negotiating-table-hope

Hope springs | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
ANYWHERE else, the delivery of food, tents and blankets to victims of avalanches in a neighbouring country would be seen as a welcome but unremarkable humanitarian act. Not, given their history of poisonous bilateral relations, when Afghanistan is the recipient and the donor is Pakistan. The arrival of Pakistani help in the stricken Panjshir valley, where snowfalls have killed more than 280 people, is a sign of how markedly relations between the two countries have improved of late. Now Pakistan may be poised to help broker talks between the Afghan government and the Afghan Taliban who have long fought a bloody insurgency against it. Even an uncertain prospect of negotiations is significant.
Much credit for the improvement goes to Ashraf Ghani, Afghanistan’s president since September. In an early speech Mr Ghani declared Pakistan to be his priority and consigned India, once a tight ally of Afghanistan’s, to the outer rings of a “five circle” foreign policy. Whereas his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, made frequent forays to India, Mr Ghani has yet to visit. When he went to Pakistan in November, he broke protocol by calling on General Raheel Sharif, the army chief who, more than his (unrelated) namesake and prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, holds real power in Pakistan. That courtesy caused dismay among those back home for whom the Pakistani army is a source of all evil, most notably as the Taliban’s historical backer. “Nothing he has done has caused more dishonour to Afghanistan,” a former foreign minister, Rangin Dadfar Spanta, fumes.
General Sharif has since made many reciprocal visits to Kabul. Mr Ghani has ordered his security forces to work with their Pakistani counterparts on managing a volatile border. He has also sent cadets to enroll in Pakistan’s military academy in Abbottabad, in contrast to Mr Karzai’s preference for training officers in India rather than in Pakistan. This counters Pakistani anxiety over the Afghan army’s future leaders being indoctrinated by a mortal enemy.
Perhaps most strikingly, Mr Ghani is diverting soldiers away from the fight against the Afghan Taliban—on March 3rd a suicide-bomber killed nine soldiers in Helmand province—to deal instead with Pakistan’s own version of the Taliban, Tehreeke-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), whose militants have taken refuge in Dangam in eastern Afghanistan. After TTP men in December attacked a school for army families in Peshawar in north-west Pakistan, killing 132 children, Mr Ghani’s is a notable gesture.
He now needs to win a big prize in return if he is not to be written off as a stooge of Pakistan. The Pakistani army must help lure the Afghan Taliban into early peace talks. Mid-ranking officers in the Pakistani army and its spy agencies have traditionally opposed that. In private they say that the Afghan Taliban poses no threat to Pakistan itself, while providing a useful channel for Pakistan to influence events over the border.
The good news is that General Sharif is clear-eyed about how negotiations between the Afghan government and the Taliban could help bring wider stability to the region. Pakistan has its own chronic problems with terrorists—the December massacre in Peshawar brought that painfully home.
The Pakistani authorities have influence over the Afghan Taliban, whose leaders enjoy broad protection in the Pakistani cities of Quetta, Karachi, Peshawar and elsewhere. Many Taliban own property in Pakistan, and their children attend local schools. The Quetta Shura, their ruling council, remains intact. A senior Western diplomat in Islamabad, Pakistan’s capital, believes that the Pakistanis are actively pushing the Afghan Taliban into negotiations. He judges that among the Taliban are “reasonable people” ready to be guided by instructions from their leader, Mullah Omar, should he sue for peace.
Back channels between the Afghan Taliban and the government in Kabul, the Afghan capital, have long existed, yet previous hopes of talks have foundered. This time could be different. With American-led foreign troops withdrawing, it is harder for the Taliban to claim to be fighting a patriotic war against foreign occupiers (though Mr Ghani will be lobbying hard for more American troops to remain when he visits Washington later this month). And if, this year, Afghan security forces survive their first full fighting season without NATO firepower, it might disabuse those militants who believe that only American forces are denying them victory. Afghan security forces are losing more men in a year—4,350 in 2013, the latest year with full statistics—than all foreign troops killed since 2001. Yet the 169,000-strong army and the police are forces to be reckoned with. They should easily deny the Taliban their grandiose promise to capture the provinces of Helmand and Kunar this year.
Further, useful diplomacy is being brought to bear. China, Pakistan’s closest ally, has hosted Taliban delegations in Beijing in hopes of securing peace. China has mining interests in Afghanistan, and it is also increasingly concerned about Islamist militancy among its Uighur population. It is keen to see a more stable region. America, too, supports peace talks with the Taliban, having once opposed them.
Some Afghan politicians envisage two years of peace talks, with the Taliban then taking part in parliamentary elections. A national council, a loya jirga, is already planned, giving parliament more powers. Might the Taliban form part of it?
The problem is that Mr Ghani probably does not have two years. His standing at home is already weakened by the way he came to power in an election so tainted by fraud that supporters of his rival, Abdullah Abdullah, claimed that their candidate had been cheated. Although Mr Ghani struck a power-sharing deal with Mr Abdullah, antagonism between the two camps remains high, and there are problems in forming a government. That is all before taking into consideration how deeply unpopular in some quarters Mr Ghani’s policy of co-operating with Pakistan remains. Mr Karzai continues to snipe from his mini-palace a short distance from Mr Ghani’s office, warning that Afghanistan must not “be under Pakistan’s thumb”. If he is to survive in office, Mr Ghani needs early results to show for his endeavours to find peace.
A quarter of a century after the end of the cold war, the world faces a growing threat of nuclear...
Pakistan is helping Afghanistan’s president make peace with the Taliban. Other powers should back...
As the Supreme Court considers whether to gut Obamacare, evidence is mounting that the law is...
Girls do better than boys in school and university. But both can still improve—sometimes for...
Despite optimistic attempts to rid the world of nuclear weapons, the threat they pose to peace is...
Negotiations on Iran’s enrichment and plutonium facilities are nearly over
His speech helped Republicans, but will not stop Iran going nuclear
Another Rhodes scholar from a rural state eyes the White House
Failing schools pose a big challenge to President Enrique Peña Nieto’s vision for modernising...
Few of the drug lords who terrorised the country remain at large
A case against the president is thrown out. The questions it gave rise to remain
Cuba wants a controlled courtship with the United States, not a fevered embrace. That may frustrate...
Problems at a state investment fund are bad news for Malaysia’s prime minister
A scattergun budget had welcome reforms but lacked real boldness
Whether as victim or as aggressor, the country finds it hard to face up to the past
The prime minister seeks to lower expectations for the economy
Xi Jinping’s new big idea is not quite as vacuous as it first appears
Foreign businesses are looking beyond falling oil prices and a limping economy
The assassination of Boris Nemtsov leaves liberal Russians in fear of a new wave of violent...
A call for peace by the PKK’s leader could mean a new deal for Turkey
In a conservative culture, a women’s football team breaks barriers
If you speak to a big shot in Macedonia, you may be recorded
Europe’s energy plans are a cautious step in the right direction
To survive as a party of government, the Lib Dems must hold south-west England. They probably...
The weightiest human-rights outfit has waded into a moral quagmire
The government tries to block a Russian investment in the North Sea
The decade-old fox-hunting ban has irked countryfolk, spared few foxes and damaged politics
Boys are being outclassed by girls at both school and university, and the gap is widening
To protect itself from attack, Estonia is finding ways to back up its data
Fed up with the failings of the big operators, remote Mexican communities are acting for themselves
A quick way to contain oil spills with lightweight booms
From exposure to a nasty throat infection or confirmation of a heart attack, the phone will know
Advanced equipment has been developed to help protect health-care workers, but the gear may not be...
Better automated acquisition of speech may be more about seeing than it is about hearing
A simple treatment using a laser can produce surfaces with the ability to clean themselves
Downsizing to a car with a smaller engine is being made easier by the latest turbochargers. They can...
Space vehicles that can operate in the ultra low-gravity on asteroids and comets are having to...
Tech startups are moving into the food business to make sustainable versions of meat and dairy...
With a DIY bundle of electronics or a ready-made device it is possible to stimulate the brain. But...
Susan Ellenberg is a biostatistician trying to avoid mistakes in an era of Big Data and high-tech...
A wasteful and inefficient industry is in the throes of great disruption
Warren Buffett’s 50th annual missive to his company’s shareholders obfuscates rather than...
A fast-growing telecoms empire is being built on debt and cost-cutting
Progress in bettering women’s chances in the workplace is mixed
The global online-shopping giants may not find it easy to conquer the region
Management by goal-setting is making a comeback, its flaws supposedly fixed
Making money from a global banking network is as difficult as it is alluring
The Bank of Japan is still far from its inflation target, but that may matter less
Economic history suggests that talk of American secular stagnation may be overblown
Could the key to the evolution of the human brain be found in a dreadful illness?
Aircraft engines may soon be built one layer at a time
How a multinational Muslim empire was destroyed by the first world war
No other country is ready to challenge America’s dominant global position
A reporter shadows Los Angeles detectives to try to understand why so many black men are killed
The touching story of a British prime minister and his unusual wife
What the careers of two British designers reveal about the fashion industry
Boris Nemtsov, leader of Russia’s reformers, was shot dead on February 27th, aged 55
Terror in Belgium: The Brussels attacks show that Islamic State is still...
Fudge-ocracy: The way to get ahead in China is to manipulate statistics
Terror in Belgium: Days after the arrest of Europe’s most-wanted...
Dissidents in Azerbaijan: Azerbaijan frees 14 jailed dissidents. The rest...
The Economist explains: How Ireland’s traveller community remains on the...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more