2015-01~03
http://www.themalaymailonline.com/what-you-think/article/terrorist-threats-are-omnipresent-sin-chew-daily

Terrorist threats are omnipresent — Sin Chew Daily | What You Think | Malay Mail Online
Blood and panic as twin blasts trigger chaos in Brussels
The Edit: Zayn Malik reveals a strange benefit of leaving 1D

FEBRUARY 11 — Claiming as the world’s largest hacker group, “Anonymous” released 11 Facebook accounts allegedly related to the Islamic State (IS) militants, and most of the accounts are said to be owned by Malaysians.

 According to “Anonymous”, the IS uses the accounts to expand its influence and recruit members, inducing people to join the so-called jihad in Syria.

 It was yet another shocking news after our country was accused to be a transit point for Asian Islamic terrorists.

 It has long been a fact that Islamic terrorists use our country as an important transit point. China’s Vice Minister of Public Security Meng Hongwei recently revealed when visiting Home Minister Datuk Seri Dr Ahmad Zahid Hamidi that more than 300 Chinese nationals had used Malaysia as a transit point on their way to join the IS militant group in Syria and Iraq.

 Meanwhile, it is estimated that currently, more than 100 Malaysians have been involving in the jihad in the Middle East. The police has arrested 46 individuals attempted to join the IS militants in Syria. On January 1, the police also took a timely action, arresting a terrorist leader who was active in Iraq and Syria. The terrorist who secretly entered the country with a fake passport was reportedly planning a trip to the Republic of Sudan.

 In addition, the police also nabbed about 155 Uygur illegal immigrants, including 37 women and 76 children, from China’s Xinjiang when raided two apartment units in Taman Bukit Jalil in Kuala Lumpur. Although the police has not yet confirmed that they were about to join any extremist terrorist groups, it still exposed our flaws and weaknesses in certain aspects. It is believed that visa-free offer to the people of many Islamic countries; as well oversight difficulties and weaknesses in border security have left opportunities to terrorists to sneak into the country.

 The above mentioned facts showed that the shadow of terrorists does not shroud only the US and European countries, but is also threatening Asian countries, including Malaysia, of course.

 More chillingly, the current terrorist attacks are not only organised activities from terrorist organisations like the IS, but they are also from “lone wolves”, who are hard to detect. At the same time, we also must be vigilant as these “jihadists” are unafraid of death. They might attack at anytime, anywhere. You cannot be spared even if you claim yourself an Islamic country.

 Our Home Minister said that the country has taken a variety of anti-terrorism measures, including arrests and various preventive measures. The government will also table a new Anti-Terrorism Bill in March. Based on the current situation, however, what the government and police should do and strengthen might be more than these.

 Last month, the official website of Malaysia Airlines (MAS) was hacked by hackers claiming to be from the “Lizard Squad — Official Cyber Caliphate” group. Today, the “Anonymous” claimed that most Facebook accounts closely related to the IS are owned by Malaysians. These showed that the warning from Cyber Security Malaysia, saying Malaysia could be the next target of cyber terrorism is not groundless.

 In the face of such a great variety and rampant terrorist threats, it is indeed necessary for the government and police to be more vigilant and carry out an in-depth investigation based on the information provided by “Anonymous”, while seeking cooperation from other countries, to ferret out Malaysians involving in terrorist activities and bring them to justice, and pacify the people. — mysinchew.com
 * This is the personal opinion of the writer or publication and does not necessarily represent the views of Malay Mail Online.
Reuters Video: Passengers evacuate Belgian metro train after deadly blast
‘Batman v Superman’ trailer if it came out in 1995
Reuters Video: Plane crashes in Russia, killing all on board
About Us | Contact Us | Policies | Search | Archive | E-Paper | Mobile | ProjekMMO | RecomN - Local Services