2015-01~03
http://www.bruneinews.net/index.php/sid/231332905

Brunei News - Police Raids Yield No Clues About Kidnapped Uyghur Village Police Chief


Imin Memtimin, 41, who has played an active role in police operations in Sadiqawat village of Baghchi township in Hotan county, was kidnapped by unknown men from his home on the morning of March 9.


Police have been conducting raids of homes in the village in hopes of determining the identities of the kidnappers and finding Memtimin, who served as a police officer from 2010 to 2012 and was later promoted to Sadiqawat's security chief. ?


"The investigation teams from the county and prefectural levels have been stationed in the village," a police officer at the Baghchi township police station told RFA's Uyghur Service.


Hotan (Hetian in Chinese) prefecture in southwestern part of Xinjiang has been rife with stabbing and shooting incidents between ethnic, mostly Muslim Uyghurs and Chinese security forces, with attacks coming amid a string of assaults and bombings across the region, formally called the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.


Adil Ismayil, deputy chief of Hotan country's Public Security Department, who is leading an investigation team of seven officers in conducting the raids, told RFA that the operation is still under way in the prefecture, but his authority was limited in terms of disclosing information about the case.


Four kidnappers wearing black masks over their faces and carrying sticks entered Memtimin's house at 2 a.m. on March 9, said Memtimin Tursuntohti, a police officer in Sadiqawat village.


The kidnappers, who may also have had knives, told Memtimin to be silent and come with them, he said.


"They allowed him to wear his clothes, then took him without touching anything in the house," he said. "They pushed his wife away while she was asking, 'Who you are? Where are you taking him to?'"


At first, Memtimin's wife thought that police were taking away her husband for presumably doing something wrong at work, but she became aware that the men were kidnappers when she saw the sticks in their hands instead of guns, Tursuntohti said.


The kidnappers told Memtimin's wife, who later relayed the information to police, to take care of herself and her children, but she fainted from the scare, Tursuntohti said.


"According this information, we know that the kidnappers were Uyghur, but still we don't know further information about their identities," he said, adding that the prefectural-level investigation team might know more about the incident because they came to the scene with technical equipment.


"So far, we've interrogated more than 1,000 people and detained more than 200 as suspects," in Sadiqawat village, Tursuntohti said, adding that he did not know how many people had been detained in other villages and counties. ?


"It is clear for me that the whereabouts of our security chief Imin Memtimin are still unknown," he said.


Azat Mijit, chief of Sadiqawat village, said the village had remained free of any violent incidents, although some residents had heard of such incidents occurring elsewhere.


"That is why we are in a weak position in terms of collaborating with the police investigation," he said. "No home has been skipped during the raids in my village, but still we have no valuable information about the kidnappers and the whereabouts of the security chief."


Mijit said it was difficult for authorities higher up to keep news of the incident quiet so as not to encourage terrorists or scare off Han Chinese who live in the area.


"But they have been forced to disclose the incident given the circumstances of the investigation," he said.




Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Khairy speaking to the press. -- Bernama photo PUTRAJAYA: An independent investigation team is to be set up to make an immediate review for improvement of the internal mechanism and governing ...
Hishammuddin accompanies Payne to their meeting. -- Bernama photo KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia and Australia have agreed to share information and intelligence on counter-terrorism to tackle the rising ...
PUTRAJAYA: The issue of integrity should take priority and should be everyone's concern, regardless if one is a subordinate, senior official, minister or chief minister, said Rural and Regional ...
TUARAN: The Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation (MOSTI) wants to arm the people with its iDengue smartphone application (app) to battle dengue in Sabah.Its minister, Datuk Seri Panglima ...
KUALA LUMPUR: Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim was allowed 360 meetings with various parties up to March 13, since he served his prison sentence at the Sg Buloh Prison in February 2015.Deputy Prime Minister ...
TUARAN: The earth satellite station in Laya Laya here needs to be established before the imminent launch of the national satellite, RazakSat-2, in 2017.Science, Technology and Innovation (MOSTI) ...
Guan Eng answering questions posed by reporters at the Dewan Rakyat lobby yestesrday. -- Bernama photo GEORGE TOWN: The real value of the bungalow at Jalan Pinhorn bought by Lim Guan Eng is RM4.27 ...
KOTA KINABALU: The Babagon Dam which supplies water to the west coast of Sabah has only 50 percent or 116 meters of water left due to the prolonged drought.Sabah Water Department deputy director Teo ...
THE government spent almost RM300 million towards implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) on April 1, 2015.This amount covered training grants, GST-compliant accounting software for small ...
CLAIMS that the number of foreigners working in the country has reached 5.5 million are untrue.The Home Ministry told the Dewan Rakyat yesterday that based on Immigration Department records as of ...
KENINGAU: Some 473 acres of land involving scrubs and weeds, farms and forests were destroyed in a fire in Sook several weeks ago.Sook Parti Bersatu Rakyat Sabah (PBRS) Youth chief Ramian Ayub ...
KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia has expressed hope the new US President would accept the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) agreement despite claims by US presidential candidates Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton ...
KOTA KINABALU: The third Sabah FCAS International Dragon Boat Race 2016 will be held in May with a total of RM74,000 cash prize to be won.The race will be held at Likas Bay on May 21 and 22 from 6am ...
TAWAU: A 47-year-old shopkeeper was robbed by a man who covered his face with a black balaclava at a cold storage shop at CTV Junction, Mile 2 3/4, Jln Chong Tien Vun here about 7.30pm on ...
KUALA LUMPUR: Two former Lord Presidents have been cited as affirming that the Federal Constitution is clear about the exclusive power of the Attorney-General over criminal matters and that his ...
KUALA LUMPUR: The Meeting of the Technical Committee Tackling the El-Nino and Dry Weather today agreed on the definition of heatwave used by the Meteorological Department that is Level 0: Weather ...
KOTA KINABALU: In a five-day nationwide drug-bust operation, Sabah's narcotic team busted 268 cases and made 288 arrests through raiding some of the areas known to be the target for hideouts ...
KUALA LUMPUR: A total of 203 communication towers have been built in Sarawak as at Jan 31 this year, said the Communications and Multimedia Ministry (KKMM).KKMM in a written reply in the Dewan ...
KOTA KINABALU: The Kota Kinabalu Chinese Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KKCCCI) will look seriously into and study the feasibility of a joint venture (JV) program between bumiputera farmers and ...
KUALA LUMPUR: The mother of actress Ummi Nazeera was acquitted of perjury yesterday, after the prosecution withdrew its appeal against her acquittal.Deputy public prosecutor Nur Hafizah Rajuni ...
Brunei News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
The tiny but thriving Islamic Sultanate of Brunei perches on the northwestern coast of Borneo, completely encircled by the East Malaysian state of Sarawak. 
Brunei is a little slice of Islamic heaven. Alcohol is virtually unobtainable, there's no nightlife to speak of, and the political culture encourages quiet acquiescence to the edicts of the sultan. The folk of Brunei are amply rewarded for their conformist ways with free healthcare, free education, free sporting centres, cheap loans and high, tax-free wages.
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from the United Nations Security Council sanctions list after a Chinese request, a media report said ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by temporarily easing trade sanctions slapped earlier this month against the Chinese telecom equipment and smartphone maker ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
BRUSSELS – Terror visited Brussels Tuesday morning, as explosions rocked the airport and a metro station - in apparently coordinated attacks, killing scores of people and grievously injuring many ...
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from the United Nations Security Council sanctions list after a Chinese request, a media report said ...
BAMAKO, Mali – At least three unidentified gunmen opened fire in their attempt to force their entry into the European Union Training Mission (EUTM) headquarters in the capital of Mali, Bamako, ...
LONDON – There are “clear downside risks” to the country if Britain left the European Union, ratings agency Moody’s said on Tuesday, warning that the exit from the bloc would also lead to ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
© 1999 - 2016 Brunei News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)