2015-01~03
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/reuters/article-3014293/Thailand-keeps-suspected-Uighurs-custody-amid-Turkey-China-tug-war.html

Thailand keeps suspected Uighurs in custody amid Turkey-China tug-of-war | Daily Mail Online

Published:
 03:57 EST, 27 March 2015

 | 
Updated:
 03:57 EST, 27 March 2015


BANGKOK, March 27 (Reuters) - A family of 17 suspected
Uighur Muslims at the centre of a diplomatic tug-of-war between
Turkey and China will remain in custody after a Thai court on
Friday rejected their argument that their prolonged detention
was illegal.
Turkey and China both claim the detainees as nationals in a
dispute with potential implications for hundreds of other
suspected Uighur detainees and to where they should be
repatriated. The group has been in detention for a year.
The court ruled that Thai immigration had the right to
detain the group but made no ruling on their nationality. Under
Thai law, court approval must be sought for detention periods of
more than seven days.
The group plans to appeal against the decision, their lawyer
Worasit Piriyawiboon said.
"I don't agree with the court decision and I'm ready to
fight," Worasit told reporters on Friday.
Thai police detained the group, all from the same family, in
March 2014 after they illegally entered Thailand overland from
Cambodia. Two of the 13 children in the group were born in
custody.
The family claimed to be Turkish and, while still in
detention, were issued with passports by the Turkish Embassy and
granted permission to travel to Turkey.
China insists the 17 detainees are Chinese Uighurs who
should be returned to the northwest Chinese region of Xinjiang,
according to court documents seen by Reuters.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying, asked
about those detained, said China was willing to increase
cooperation with countries such as Thailand to fight illegal
immigration and cross-border crime. She did not comment on the
case itself.
Turkey and China have both asked Thailand for help in
repatriating the group, Thai National Security Council
secretary-general Anusit Kunakorn said after a first hearing of
the case on Tuesday.
Thai court documents referring to them do not detail their
nationality.
Turkish diplomats at the hearing on Friday declined to
comment on the verdict. None of the family, who use the name
Teklimakan, appeared in court. They have spent most of the past
year in the main police immigration detention centre in Bangkok.
Hundreds of people have been killed in unrest in Xinjiang in
the past two years, prompting a crackdown by Chinese
authorities, and small numbers of Uighurs have tried to flee.
Hundreds, possibly thousands, have travelled clandestinely
through Southeast Asia to Turkey.
The Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking people officially regarded
as "brothers" in Turkey, which already hosts large Uighur
populations.

 (Additional reporting by Ben Blanchard in Beijing; Editing by
Simon Webb and Paul Tait)
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group