2015-01~03
http://news.thaivisa.com/thaivisa-news/suspected-uighur-muslims-causes-struggle-between-china-and-turkey/42611/

Suspected Uighur Muslims Causes Struggle Between China and Turkey
Kashgar, China – July 11, 2014: Id Kah Mosque, Kashgar, Xinjiang privince, China. This is the largest Mosque in China. It is the central place of worship for the local Uighur population which are a Turkic ethnic group living in Asia
Hundreds of suspected Uighur Muslims detained in Thailand has caused a rift between China and Turkey. The Muslims have been detained due to being in the country illegally. China and Turkey have been in the middle of the issue due to both countries wanting to repatriate those detained.
In March 2014, there was a group of 17 Uighur Muslims that were detained all from the same family. Entering the country illegally through Cambodia, the family has spent nearly a year in custody in Bangkok at the police immigration detention center. The family has 13 children in total, with two being born while detained.
China claims that the family should return to the region of Xinjiang. However, the family has claimed that they are from Turkey and were issued passports by the Turkish government.
China’s claims may be true. In the last two years, Chinese authorities have been citing unrest in the Xinjiang region with many Uighurs fleeing the country as a result. It’s estimated that hundreds of Uighurs have left the country in an attempt to reach Turkey in the past two years. These numbers may even swell into the thousands.
Thailand’s National Security Council states that both countries have come forward and claimed that the family are rightful citizens of their country. Thailand reaffirms that they are merely holding illegal immigrants and will wait for the family’s nationalities to be verified before sending them to either Turkey or China.
There was a meeting over the family’s fate on Tuesday with both Chinese and Turkey officials. Turkey states that the family are Turkish citizens and that they do have valid Turkish passports to prove their citizenship. After the meeting, Chinese officials did not comment on the meeting.
Several human rights groups have stated that sending the Uighurs to China may result in severe persecution, arrest and possibly torture of the family.