2015-01~03
http://www.dawn.com/news/1153849/the-other-factors-reshaping-pakistans-war-on-terror&c=J0rCDGpvPmalT212QNp2YzHHJkbVgCB6YG808FQ95zU&mkt=en-us

The 'other' factors reshaping Pakistan's war on terror - Blogs - DAWN.COM
Over 15 days have passed since the gruesome Peshawar carnage shook up the entire country. The atmosphere is still somber as a flurry of activity continues in government quarters.
Do the authorities intend real, meaningful action or are they still looking to stage manage some mass catharsis and bid their time before returning to their old ways?
A slew of senior analysts remain skeptical, and they have good reason to be, given recent history.
Nevertheless, I for one shall not be carried away by past experiences and lose sight of new factors that suggest that Pakistan may have turned the corner. There is more at play than meets the eye.
When the US military campaign in Afghanistan came knocking at our door, the country was under a host of economic and military sanctions imposed by none other than the US itself.
The Pressler Amendment of 1985 had bound the US president to annually certify that a country receiving military or economic aid from US was not pursuing a nuclear program. For five years, President Regan and then President Bush (Senior) signed the certificate, up until the Soviets finally withdrew from Afghanistan.
The period 1983-1990 saw US military aid stand at an average of around half a billion dollars (in 2009 constant dollar).
But the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan in 1989 drew a rather abrupt drop scene of this decade long Pak-US military friendship.
Then in May 1998, Pakistan defied international pressure and went ahead with nuclear tests. President Clinton imposed further sanctions under Symington Amendment and Glenn Amendment.
When General Musharraf toppled the elected government in October 1999, US Congress invoked Section 508 of the Foreign Assistance Act prohibiting all aid to Pakistan; these were termed as ‘democracy sanctions’.
The US non-military aid to Pakistan for the period 1991-2001 averaged just $75 million per year, while the total military aid during the eleven year period was a paltry $7 million.
All of this changed in September 2001. President Bush (Junior) waived Pressler, Symington and Glenn Amendments and the US Congress voted to allow the President to waive ‘democracy sanctions’. This broke loose a flood of US money.
US military aid to Pakistan in the first year of the new war, 2002, was a staggering $1.74 billion. The non-military economic assistance that year was $937 million.
The US has certainly not been the only donor. As shown in a report by Center for Global Development, the US financial assistance worth $ 1.3 billion was just 30 per cent of the gross Official Development Assistance (ODA) that flowed into Pakistan in 2011, totaling $4.15 billion.
Assistance from US and allies to Pakistan has maintained a high level since then despite many challenges.
For a broad comparison, consider that Pakistan’s total current expenditure for 2010-11 was Rs 2,296 billion and out of this Defense Affairs and Services (not total military budget) was Rs 445 billion.
The Coalition Support Fund (which reimburses expenses incurred by US allies against the war on terrorism) for the year 2010 was $1.22 billion (in 2009 constant) or roughly Rs100 billion; in other words, over a fifth of military’s current expenditure. It has remained at this level for a good 13 year period. This is a long time to stay hooked on to something.
Bloomberg quotes Congressional Research Service claiming, the U.S. paid Pakistan $11 billion out of the Pentagon’s Coalition Support Fund budget as of 2013. Including other military and economic aid, the US has given Pakistan about $28 billion during the 12 years through 2014.
General Raheel Sharif got an extension in the Coalition Support Fund for 2015 worth $1 billion during his recent visit to the US. But by 2016, US will be completely out of its combat status in Afghanistan.
In November 2016, during the next US presidential elections, Democrats would like to take pride in having successfully concluded the longest war in US history.
So while budgetary supports and civilian aid from the US and others will continue, though at a reduced level, military aid will slide down sharply, if not dry up completely after 2015.
Pakistan needs to keep around 150,000 troops in North Waziristan until at least 2017.
The monster of terrorism looming large at the western border at the time when resources are shrinking is no good news.
The time to act has arrived as Pakistan’s military strategists can no longer (financially) afford to let matters linger on its western borders.
The Kerry-Lugar bill had tried to use the US aid as a lever to create a new civil-military balance in Pakistan in 2009. The brazen attempt to give the newly elected government supremacy over military affairs had annoyed the army and was effectively blunted as aid to both civilian and military continued unabated.
The new reality is that the aid pipelines are drying up, especially the ones that directly supplied our military. It is bound to create a new civil-military power equation.
The civil-military hostility of 1990s can at least partly be attributed to the sudden reduction in size of the budget pie. We are again facing a similar moment in our history.
The only way to sustain previous levels of allocations is to increase the size of the national budget. That can come through measures like expansion in tax base, foreign investments and the overall growth in GDP of the country.
Peace is a pre-requisite to growth and it is only possible if terrorism is uprooted and we embark on a new era of regional cooperation.
The recent upsurge in terror acts is blamed on the Operation Zarb-e-Azb, which, despite its shortcomings, the world has come to recognise as a step forward in the fight against terrorism.
Two weeks before the launch of Zarb-e-Azb, (on June 15, 2014), General Raheel Sharif paid a visit to China, holding meetings with political and military leadership of the new global power.
Since then, there has been a crisscross of meetings between US, China, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India.
China has advised Pakistan to settle its disputes with India through talks. It has also exhorted ‘neighbours of Afghanistan’ to not meddle in its internal affairs. It has come out in support of the new government in Kabul and has signed economic cooperation agreements worth tens of billions of dollar with Afghanistan, Pakistan and India.
A new economy is emerging in the region, and China is a dominant player in it.
China and Pakistan have close cooperation in almost every sector of defense. According to SIPRI, during the five-year period 2009-13, Pakistan was the world’s third biggest importer of arms in the world (having a 5 per cent share in total international arms imports) and 54 per cent of Pakistan’s imports came from China.
Looking at it from the other side, China became the world’s fourth largest arms exporter during the same period and 47 per cent of its total exports were bought by Pakistan.
China has three main stakes in the region that are related to Pakistan.
One: it sees the militancy in Pakistan and Afghanistan as a source of unrest in its home province Xinjiang, and it has zero tolerance for religious extremism.
Islamic militancy in Pakistan and Afghanistan is a constant source of inspiration, if not support, for ethnic Uighurs of Xinjiang and a major irritant for Beijing.
Two: Xinjiang is important for China from more than one aspect. It has a fifth of that country’s oil reserves and its largest coal and natural gas reserves. It also serves as the distribution hub of the gas China imports from Central Asia.
Beijing has recently said it is investing $300 billion in the region and a good part of this is going in developing roads and railways that will link China with Europe and other regions. One important route shall pass through Pakistan and China wants its merchandise to flow on it, but is wary of religious extremism traveling back into its already troubled region.
See: China Invests in Region Rich in Oil, Coal and Also Strife
Three: China has stakes in the region’s economy. It already has a $3.5 billion copper mining contract at Mes Aynak near Kabul. China's appetite for mineral resources is insatiable.
Besides that, many of the Chinese investments in other countries of the region can materialise or optimise if there are no cross-country hindrances. This provides “once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to kick-start the two redundant economies of Pakistan and Afghanistan.”
Pakistan’s western allies have been exhorting it to ‘do more’ in the war against terrorism with frustratingly limited success. The pressure to walk the last mile now may not be coming from the wily West but from ‘all-weather friend’ China.
Given the ‘unreliability’ of the US, Pakistan is trying to diversify. Its recent overtures to Russia are part of this effort but these are unlikely to yield anything substantial given the uncertainties faced by that country’s economy especially in the face of the current slump in oil prices.
So Pakistan is left with China as the only reliable military partner – and it certainly cannot afford to lose or annoy her.
Tahir Mehdi works with Punjab Lok Sujag, a research and advocacy group that has a primary interest in understanding governance and democracy.
The views expressed by this writer and commenters below do not necessarily reflect the views and policies of the Dawn Media Group.
Soon "do more" from China, Author made the concerned are seems to be reality
Islam can defend itself. Islam does NOT need a self-appointed custodian to defend it.
Our need is: a single-mindedly focus on turning Pakistan into an "Economic Fortress"
There are no permanent friends or enemies.Don't take China for granted
where did all the money gone............billion and billions of dollars came from US and average Pakistani is still poor.
I think clipping the wings this aid bird will force pakistan to stand on its own feet.
@Atif Khan : why only Islam? what about Pakistanis who are Christians, Hindus and other minorities?
So make no mistake here this may not have been our war when it was imposed on us but it very well is now, And what Pakistan is doing is more in Pakistan's own interest than USA/China/Afghanistan and whatnot
@Tahir sahib, again a very deep analysis coming from your side. I however have lost in the strategic insight of our Generals. I can't say for sure that these people have the wits even to thin on these lines. I hope although that they do.
From one to another, why Pakistan has to be dependent on allies? But if you are dependent on them they are not allies anymore.
Pakistan has paid the price for Chinese friendship. It has given a large chunk of land in disputed Kashmir to China. In turn China sells arms to Pakistan at exorbitant rates, this is ruining the economy of Pakistan and ordinary Pakistanis are suffering. The best option for Pakistan is to end arm struggle with India, sign peace treaty and look after the welfare of its people.
I think India and Pakistan should rely on each other first because both countries are importing arms and boosting economies like China, US, France, Russia etc at the cost of their own economies. As far as US or China is concerned none of them are reliable as every one can see what US has done to Afghanistan, Iraq and how China betrayed its all time friend Myanmar. India and Pakistan must initiate steps in the interest of their own citizens and resolve all outstanding issues peacefully. I get hurt when a person in Pakistan mocks poverty in India or an Indian mocks extremism in Pak. Bot factors are equally existant in India as well as Pak. If we help each other such issues can be resolved in no time. I saw how every school in India mourned the barbaric massacre in Pakistan recently and even Indian parliament did the same. Pakistanis reciprocated and impressed every Indian heart when they strongly objected bail granted to Lakhvi. Its our politicians to create the rift but I see every Pakistani heart full of love for every Indian and ofcourse India needs to do more here. Players like China, US, Russia must be kept out when it comes to India and Pakistan because they might be our friends or enemies but we are brothers and its duty of every family member to support and protect each other. India should always stand with Pakistan and ease its pain on western most province and Pakistan should stand stand solid with India on every single issue and then you see the change in attitude of the world. Take it for granted.
China has pak right where it wants it. Completely weak and dependent on it. Too bad Pakistanis cannot see it and believe Chinese are their "best friends"
@Atif Khan : well said. All self appointed 'thekedars' should mind their own business. Be it Hindus, Muslims...
@Kirpal 
Once Kashmir has been secured we will sign all the treaties we need. We will bleed for Kashmir, such is the enemy that you have made for yourself.
You have to factor in the growing China India trade which has reached about $ 70 billion in 2014. 
China in now India's largest trading partner and both nations have publicly expressed the desire to expand this to about $ 100 billion by 2015. Remove the import restrictions currently in both countries and this number can exponentially grow. This is one of the biggest bilateral south - south trade relationships in the world. Look at the Chinese presidents recent visit to India ..... They want to be a player in Indias infrastructure expansion .... ports, railways etc etc. The cold logic of Economics in the end will always prevail in the end. Existing strategic paradigms are at best pieces of convenience.
@Bobby It paid into the budget deficits. Pakistan's biggest problem is low tax collection. We only collect about 18%. The rest has to come from outside in the form of aid. The other issue are the subsidies, on everything from petrol to books and medicines. The money has to come from somewhere.
@Kirpal That is not easy as Pak army believes giving up proxy war with India will disintegrate pak. The only thing that's holding many terrorist org together is their anti india sentiments. That's why musharaf and LeT take no time in blaming India for any attack in pak although everyone is aware that's not the case.
No one can save us but us. And by us i dont mean US
Pakistan is in a lose-lose situation from all sides; literally and figuratively. Vast majority of Pakistan's problems lies because of its religious extremism and the other big chunk of the problem lies in Muslims who claim Islam to be Almighty but do not follow its true teachings and have corrupted their personal communal, and national life due to this shortcoming.
Unfortunately the rot has set in so deep that nothing can be done now. It will take decades for course correction and who is willing to wait that far. That too if course correct correction is attempted. There is no sign of that yet.
However difficult it may unless Pakistan and its people learn to stand on their legs without foreign aid they will not get any respect.American aid to Pakistan has brought Pakistan to the current situation.It must improve its economy and put on the back burner its disputes with India for a decade.Even Bangladesh is doing better than Pakistan at the moment.
Pakistan is a mercenary country. Whoever gives money Pakistan goes to war for them. Before US, now China maybe Russia also.
@Atif Khan I'm sorry, exactly how will Islam defend itself? Let's sit back on our chairs and let more children die and maybe all this madness will go away eventually, right? Meanwhile, Pakistan will continue to shame Islam and distort its image in news headlines everyday. Great plan!
Regarding the "Economic Fortress" part, please explain how one can make Pakistan a strong economical power without focusing on the instability of the country? Who wants to invest in a country infested with terrorists with no electricity or gas, frequent shutdowns, and children getting shot in schools? You can't have one without the other.
@Bobby Right? In the past 13 years, Pakistan has only become more unstable. With all that money flowing in, they were neither able to improve the economy nor protect their country. How is no one trying to get to the bottom of this? We are always ready to blame other countries for our misfortunes, but does anyone care to ask what their government has been doing all these years with all that money? How did it fail so miserably and where did all that money go?
As always, Pakistanis will learn we will have to rely on our own capabilities and have faith.. 
Situation hasn't changed, we are still surrounded by the same enemies that existed in 1947... Nothing has changed...
Fear has been our best friend and we have learnt to deal with it well...come what may...
Good article, our stance of closing our ears and eyes to what china is doing to its muslims is disgusting
China has been advising Pakistan to go after the militants since a long time, but subsequent governments have ignored their advise, the present government even started a dialogue with the militants and China kept quiet. It is the Peshawar incident which has been the game changer and the army rightly took a tough stand and has been able to take the inept politicians on board.And hopefully thing will move for betterment now.
Pakistan received a total of 18 billion USD since 2001. The foreign remittances per year is on average 14 billion USD. When a Pak expat arrives Islamabad airport from abroad, the Islamabad airport shows the respect it have for Pakistani expat (runway, immigration, luggage collection all b). The country who just give us in total USD 18 billion USD we give their citizen the best facilities to them. Give respect to your people, your country and you see the progress we can achieve. 
We need to have our own internal and foreign policy. Not a policy based on foreign dictation.
Totally agree with you. I only wish and hope that politicians of both the countries understand that the interests of both the nations and its peoples come first. War is not the answer.
Citizens of both the countries are brothers with the same cultural values. Hatred kills the soul.
If India and Pakistan want to be strong in all the fields, and compete with the west on an equal footing, both the countries need to stand shoulder to shoulder.
The first step would be to get rid of religious bigotry, promote love, respect, harmony, equality and justice for their citizenry and for their brothers across the borders.
the blurry lines demarcating the good and bad terrorist is the real factor.
@ Kundan, Rainman, Azeez. If this region is to prosper it is thinking like yours which will have to be the only way to go. ONLY.
About time the sane millions on both sides were able to influence action by governments to this end.

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
