2015-01~03
http://www.saltlakecitysun.com/index.php/sid/229820621

Villagers Appeal for Release of Jailed, Elderly Uyghur Religious Scholar - Salt Lake City Sun
Residents of a county in northwest China's restive Xinjiang region have petitioned local authorities for the release of an elderly religious scholar whose health has declined since he was jailed six years ago for "illegal religious teaching activities" and "murdering a student," sources said.
Ablimit Qari Hajim, 85, the former imam, or Muslim religious leader, of the Yurchi township mosque in Kelpin county (Keping in Chinese), Aksu prefecture (Akesu in Chinese), is serving a 17-year sentence in a prison near the regional capital Urumqi, according to current and former residents of Yoqirisu village, where the scholar resided.
Kelpin county residents, including Hajim's relatives and neighbors, signed a petition for his release and submitted it several times to the local police, county government, and autonomous regional government in Urumqi, requesting that the scholar be released because of poor health, they said.
"We all requested that Ablimit Qari Hajim be released to his to home if possible, because he is so old and weak," one of Hajim's neighbors, who requested anonymity for personal security reasons, told RFA's Uyghur Service. "He would perform his jail term at home under the guarantee of the people of Kelpin. However, the authorities refused our application, so [he] is still in prison."
Abdurahman Ozturk, a Kelpin county native and former neighbor of Hajim, who is now an independent journalist and television presenter at Uyghur-language Erk TV in Istanbul, said he heard that Hajim was severely ill and suffering from a psychological disorder.
Hajim is a famous religious person and scholar, not only in Kelpin county, but also the rest of Aksu prefecture, including neighboring counties, the sources said.
In the late 1990s, a teenager from a neighboring county, whom Hajim taught along with other students in his home in the mountainous area of Kelpin county to avoid attracting the authorities' attention, suddenly died in an accident, the unnamed woman said.
The deceased boy's parents and local residents had asked Hajim to lead a religious ceremony for him.
"But after a dozen years, the authorities detained Ablimit Qari Hajim and accused him of being a murderer," the woman said.
Tuyghun Abduweli, a Uyghur writer from Kelpin county who lives in exile in Canada, said he used to reside in a village neighboring Yoqirisu and knew Hajim well.
"The? main reason for his arrest was his outstanding reputation and religious influence among the people of Kelpin," he said. "The authorities really feared his existence, and they believed that Ablimit Qari Hajim's influences among the local Uyghurs would be a threat to the government."
Hajim originally had been detained in Aksu prison, but was moved to another facility outside Urumqi, the unnamed woman said.
Hajim's relatives, who visit him in jail every three to six months, indicated that he was in poor health and suffering from mental illness, she said.
"They said that nowadays Ablimit Qari Hajim's health condition is getting worse day by day, and sometimes he doesn't even recognize his sons or grandsons,' she said.
Hajim's eldest son, Memet Qari, was also arrested on charges of "illegal religious teaching activities along with his father and has served six years of a life sentence in a prison near Urumqi, current and former residents of Yoqirisu village said.
"We were surprised by his [Hajim's] and his son's arrests, because he [Hajim] is one of the most respected and knowledgeable people in Kelpin county," the woman said. "He was also a member of the county's People's Political Consultative Committee."
The committee is a political advisory body in China, consisting of delegates from a range of political parties and organizations as well as independent members. ?
Since the 1980s, Hajim had taught religious studies to many young people, some of whom now live in exile in Turkey and European countries, and advised locals about familial and personal matters, current and former residents of Yoqirisu village said.
Eysa Qarim, a former student who now lives in exile in Netherlands, said when he studied under Hajim during the late 1980s, the Chinese authorities had enacted a reform and open door policy, which permitted an atmosphere of religious tolerance in Xinjiang, allowing such private religious schools to operate.
But during the late 1990s, the authorities began to strictly control religious figures and private religious schools, he said.
"As a young student learning the Muslim religion, I also was forced go to abroad for personal safety reasons," he said. "Just after my departure from my hometown, I heard that master Ablimit Qari Hajim was arrested. I was miserable when I heard this news. It was a big loss for our people and our hometown."
The minority Turkic-speaking Uyghurs in Xinjiang face pervasive ethnic discrimination, religious repression, and cultural suppression by China's communist government in the name of the fight against
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
WASHINGTON - This Tuesday, March 22, when Republicans in Utah caucus to nominate a candidate for U.S. President, many of them won't actually be in Utah. In fact, some won't even be in North America. That's because for the first time ever in the United States, a state party will allow voting via the Internet.
Members of the Utah Republican party who either can't make it to a caucus site, or simply choose to participate via the Internet, will be able to cast their ballot by registering online at the party's website. Once registered, online voters will have all day - from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. MDT - to select which candidate they want to be this year's Republican presidential nominee.
"I think it's going to be great," Utah Republican Chairman James Evans recently told the Deseret News during a demonstration of how the online voting will work. "There's not a reason for anyone not to participate." (Utah's Democratic state party is not allowing online voting this cycle.)
The idea of voting for national office may strike some Americans as new and untested, but in fact a large number of jurisdictions around the world have already moved parts of their electoral process onto the Internet.
The firm selected to coordinate this first-of-its-kind vote in the U.S. is Smartmatic, an international operation based in Britain with experience in online voting. Since its founding in 2001, Smartmatic says its technology has been employed at national level elections in Uganda, Estonia, the Philippines, Brazil and Belgium, among others.
"If you think about the criticality of the democratic process, I don't think there's another transaction as a citizen I take that has that level of significance and importance as voting in an election," says Mike Summers, a program manager at Smartmatic and key developer of the technology.
"Who thinks the notion of requiring people to go to a particular location at a particular time on a particular day and use a pencil and a piece of paper which is then counted by hand is a good idea - It just seems at odds with how we lead our lives today," Summers told VOA.
The process in Utah will work like this: Internet voters first register online with some personal information. Once confirmed as party members, they'll receive a unique cryptographic key they will enter when voting on the party website. At the site, voters will be able to learn about the candidates and even change their ballot before submitting their vote; once a vote is submitted, however, it is permanent and unchangeable.
Summers, who will be on-hand in Utah to monitor the election, said voters need to trust that any system they use is safe and secure - be it pencil and paper, punch cards or an online website. "It's secure, private, and no vote can be changed or deleted, and no bogus votes can be introduced into the ballot box," he said.
To accomplish that in Utah, Summers says Smartmatic's technology will employ cryptographic blockchains- the first time anywhere that technology will be used in an online vote. Blockchain technology is a type of distributed digital ledger first used by Bitcoin to create permanent, secure and cryptographically protected records of various transactions, such as purchases or votes cast.
The move online may make unique sense for Utah. An overwhelming majority of residents there are members of the Church of Latter Day Saints, also known as Mormons; many of whom spend several years abroad doing missionary work.
Traditionally in U.S. elections, voters who are abroad, such as missionaries or U.S. military service personnel, have relied on ballots sent back and forth through the mail. But Summers says postal voting is notoriously unreliable.
"There's no security around postal voting," said Smartmatic's Mike Summers. "In many instances, only 20% of those postal ballots make it back on time. I see Internet voting as the perfect replacement." A representative of the Utah Republican party told VOA that the Internet isn't being looked at to replace actual voting at polling stations, but merely to make it easier for party members to participate in the process.
Mike Smith agrees. "I don't think anybody's proposing that online voting is there to replace polling station voting," he said. "We would just like to see more and more voters pushing at county and state levels and asking for this, telling their governments they want to be engaged and want more of this."

WASHINGTON - This Tuesday, March 22, when Republicans in Utah caucus to nominate a candidate ...
"Dump Trump" Fights Intolerance with Violence "Dump Trump" protesters ramped up their violent attacks against ...
Tucson - Donald Trump's campaign in Arizona is centered on his hard line against illegal ...
WASHINGTON - Donald Trump faces a tough challenge in Utah's caucuses on Tuesday, but the ...
Donald Trump is so strong among Utah Mormons that if the Republican frontrunner secures the ...
Get the latest Salt Lake City Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Salt Lake City Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved