2015-01~03
http://english.cntv.cn/2015/03/13/VIDE1426224002623291.shtml

Agenda in Action: Uyghurs hope stability will bring growth - CCTV News - CCTV.com English

Hot:
Exhibition of IPR protection
 | 
 Yuan
 | 
 Golden Era
 | 
 Four Comprehensives
 | 
 AIIB

Opinion | Panview | One Belt, One Road | Tibet | Closer to China with R.L.Kuhn
China | World | Business | Sports | Culture | Sci-Tech | Opinion | Special Reports
CCTV app for iPhone | iPad | Android Phone | I Love Africa for iOS | Android
Watch to Learn | Growing up with Chinese | Special Chinese | Travel in Chinese
CCTV-9 Docu Live | One City, One Flavor | World Heritage China | Roof of the World
Dialogue | China 24 | News Hour | Global Business | Sports Scene | Culture Express
China Video | World Video | Most Popular | Reporters | Correspondents |CCTV Interviews
Xi's speech | Military parade | Commemoration Ceremony | Patriotic songs
The city of Kashgar is located in Xinjiang, the western-most region of China. An overwhelming 90 percent of its population is ethnically Uyghur. It is also where the majority of China's terrorist attacks took place last year. Our reporter Han Peng paid a visit to Kashgar to find out what the situation is like on the ground.
A knack for business is part of the Uyghur tradition. Abduany runs a shop at a bazaar selling Uyghur products for both locals and visitors.
His hometown, Kashgar, was once a major stop on the ancient Silk Road. Traders from all different regions and ethnicities met here to exchange goods and connect cultures.
But these days, business is in decline and Abduany has been struggling.
"Last year, there was a string of terrorist attacks in Xinjiang. Most of them were carried out by Uyghur people. And now, people from other ethnic groups do not want to visit Kashgar any more, because they think we don't like them," Abduany said.
This is Abduany's apprentice, Abdulimjan. Abduany started his own apprenticeship 20 years ago. Over the years, his skills gradually improved, and so did his business, thanks to an increasing number of outside visitors.
When business was good, hundreds of shops like Abduany's started expanding and renovating, with the help of local authorities.
"In the past, the houses in this neighborhood were too old and shabby, with many safety risks. Based on our decades-long favorable policies toward ethnic minorities, since 2008, the government and residents have been co-investing in renovations," Parhati with Kashgar Old Town Renovation Office said.
We visit one of the newly renovated Uyghur homes, belonging to Abduany's neighbor, Salim.Salim reserves a special room just to receive guests. Although he and his family do not speak any Chinese, his warm smile and plates of unique Uyghur snacks are evidence of his hospitality. He says he hopes to take advantage of the Kashgar government's favorable policy, which allows Uyghurs to receive tourists in their homes, as a way to promote the Uyghur culture and offer a source of income.
"Uyghurs are very hospitable people. And we are also interested in making friends with outsiders. That's why I've spent quite a lot on the renovation of my house, hoping to receive guests from outside," Salim said.
Salim's home is in a neighborhood with tens of thousands of other Uyghurs who have just finished renovating their homes and shops. The new streets still have the old Uyghur flavor, but what is missing is the influx of visitors. The recent spate of terror attacks has frightened many away, and it is taking its toll on local Uyghur families.
People like Salim and Abduany are proud of their faith and ethnicity, but they share the same struggles and hopes of any other Chinese. They say their livehoods depend on the ethnic unity, without which it is Uyghurs who suffer most.
In his work report in this year's political season, Premier Li Keqiang continued to stress the importance of ethnic unity, saying it is key that all ethnic groups share in the country's prosperity.
Islamic religious leader Abudulrekep Tumniaz says while most of the recent terror attacks were carried out by Uyghur Muslims, they were not caused by their ethnicity or religion.
"Islam is a peaceful religion, and real Muslims never not commit such atrocities. It is the religious extremism who never stop attempt to infiltrate and incite Uyghur muslims into violence," Abudulrekep Tumniaz said.
Abduany and Salim both hope the market will pick up again soon. But until then, they say they will continue to work hard, and look forward to welcoming guests into their homes.



Share this: 
Share on twitter
Share on facebook
Share on sinaweibo
Share on email




Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Instagram
Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Wechat
Manufacturing upgrade high on agenda as China Development Forum closes

Climate Change Conference
G20, APEC Summits
Xi visits U.S.
Beijing 2022
Xi Attends BRICS Summit
Truth and Denial
July 7th Incident
Understanding the CPC
Li Attends 17th China-EU Leaders' Meeting
7th China-U.S. S&ED & 6th CPE
Dragon Boat Festival
The Basic Law
Beijing Bids for 2022 Winter Olympics
Xi Visits Kazakstan, Russia, Belarus
Nepal Earthquake
World Book Day
2015 Boao Forum
2015 Two Sessions
AirAsia Flight Crashed
