2015-01~03
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2015-01-19/ethnic-uighers-shot-dead-by-chinese-police-near-vietnam-border/1407827

Ethnic Uighurs shot dead by Chinese police near Vietnam border | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
Police in southern China shoot dead two ethnic Uighurs accused of trying to enter Vietnam illegally.
Police in southern China have shot dead two ethnic Uighurs accused of trying to enter Vietnam illegally.
Chinese state media reported the pair were part of a group of Uighurs stopped by police near a highway toll booth close to the China and Vietnam border.
The government-run China News Service said police shot the pair after they turned violent and assaulted officers with knives.
They were both from China's western province of Xinjiang and are part of a group accused of trying to cross over to Vietnam illegally.
Two more people were detained while police were still searching for a fifth in Pingxiang city in the southern region of Guangxi, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.
Other Uighurs have recently been found in some of China's neighbouring countries as part of a human trafficking network.
Rights groups argue that harsh police treatment of the Uighur minority, as well as government campaigns and bans against religious practices such as the wearing of veils had led to violence.
"China is using extreme means like shooting and killing these people in order to intimidate other Uighurs who wish to escape," said Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the Munich-based World Uyghur Congress.
"There is a direct relationship between China's repressive policies and the increase in those trying to escape."
Hundreds of people believed to be Uighurs were detained in Thailand last year, claiming they were Turkish citizens in order to avoid being sent back to China.
Chinese authorities launched a crackdown on illegal emigration in the wake of their case.
Police seized 352 alleged human smugglers and detained 852 suspects who tried to cross China's south-western border after moves to stamp out illegal immigration were launched in April, Xinhua said.
A knife rampage last March at a train station in Kunming, where 31 people were killed, was blamed on "Xinjiang separatists".
Uighurs are frequently denied passports for travel by officials and have sought to cross China's southern border, where established human-smuggling networks operate.
Xinjiang's militarised frontiers and harsh mountain terrain also discouraged illegal migration directly to Central Asia.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.