2015-01~03
http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/world/archives/2015/03/31/2003614831

China’s jailing of man who grew beard absurd: group - Taipei Times
A six-year prison sentence reportedly given to a man in China’s Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region after he grew a beard was “absurd,” an overseas group said yesterday as accounts of the penalty disappeared online.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the exiled World Uyghur Congress, said the case was “typical of the political persecution” faced by Uighurs, the mostly Muslim, Turkic-speaking minority group that calls Xinjiang home.
“This is a case that would not happen in any other country in the world,” Raxit said in a statement. “It is unacceptable and absurd. It exposes China’s hostile attitude and crisis of governance.”
“If a Chinese person grows a beard, it is a personal fashion [that] he is allowed to choose freely. If a Uighur grows a beard, he is a religious extremist... China’s goal is to use judicial means to force Uighurs to accept Chinese people’s traditions and give up their own way of life,” he said.
On Sunday, the China Youth Daily reported that a court in Kashgar sentenced a 38-year-old Uighur man to six years in jail for growing a beard, while his wife was given two years for veiling herself.
The man “had started growing his beard in 2010” and his wife “wore a veil hiding her face and a burqa” the paper said.
The couple were found guilty of “picking quarrels and provoking trouble,” a vague accusation regularly used in the Chinese judicial system.
An employee of Kashgar’s propaganda department declined to confirm the report yesterday, telling a reporter: “I know nothing about this.”
For more than a year, Xinjiang authorities have been campaigning against men growing beards — a practice Chinese officials associate with extremist ideas.
A campaign dubbed “Project Beauty” also encourages women to leave their heads bare and abandon wearing the veil, which some Muslims see as a religious requirement.
By yesterday, the China Youth Daily report and several other articles on the case had been deleted from Chinese news sites.
However, the initial reports incited debate among users of China’s popular online social networks. Some said the punishment was an appropriate way to guard against extremism.
Others dismissed the anti-beard campaign as a “simple and crude” measure that would do little to ensure public safety.
Comments will be moderated. Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned.