2015-01~03
http://www.thailandnews.net/index.php/sid/241983991

Thailand News - Thailand Holds Four Chinese Refugees Amid Fears of Deportation


The detentions came after a yacht bought by Li Xiaolong and a group of fellow refugees--all of whom have been recognized as genuine by the United Nations--got into difficulties in southern Thailand on March 1 after taking on water from massive waves at sea, a member of the group told RFA on Monday.


Li, his wife Gu Qiao, their smallest child Li Yisheng and a refugee named Song Zhiyu are currently in police custody, fellow refugee Zhang Wei told RFA.


"Li Xiaolong's son, who isn't a year old, has been forcibly taken away by police and put in an orphanage," he said.


"I and Li Xiaolong boarded the boat with seven other people," Zhang said. "We were planning to leave Thailand, but when we had gone about 200 kilometers [124 miles] out to sea, we ran into huge waves caused by the [undersea] earthquake."


"The boat ran aground somewhere in [southern] Thailand," he said.


The family's relatives visited the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) in Bangkok on Monday in a last-ditch bid to halt the family's deportation to China.


"We went today ... to tell them what is going on and see if there was any action they could take to help us," Zhang said.


"But there is no new information they could give us, and they told us to go back on Thursday," he said.


Chinese refugees in Thailand say the ruling Chinese Communist Party launched a drive late last year to repatriate all Chinese nationals in Thailand, many of whom seek asylum and resettlement in other countries after being jailed or otherwise targeted by the authorities as prisoners of conscience.


Li's brother said he had tried to make inquiries with the Thai police, but it appears that the process is being kept under wraps.


"I asked the Thai police, via some friends, but they said they didn't know anything because it was all being kept secret; they are deliberately not telling anyone," he said.


"If my brother really does get repatriated, it will be disastrous for him," he said. "We are all very scared; we are terrified for them."


In an interview before his detention, Li told RFA that most Chinese activists are now effectively on the run, constantly on the move in a bid to evade arrest and deportation on illegal immigration charges.


In November, Chinese asylum-seekers Jiang Yefei and Dong Guangping, who had fled persecution in their home country, were handed back to the Chinese authorities in a move that drew strong criticism from the United Nations.


They are now under criminal detention in China for "organizing illegal border crossings and illegally crossing the border."


Jiang's wife Chu Ling, Dong's wife Gu Shuhua and daughter Dong Xuerui were later flown to Canada from Bangkok for resettlement as political refugees. They fear Jiang and Dong are now at risk of torture and other violations of their rights.


Three other Chinese nationals were repatriated at the same time, but their identities remain unconfirmed.


And in December, Chinese asylum-seeker Wang Junli, who had been in the country for more than a year, and who also held a UNHCR letter of protection, was arrested by Thai police and repatriated.


Zhang, who remains free because he holds a valid Thai visa, said the Li family and Song Zhiyu are being held on similar charges of "illegal immigration."


Chinese national Xing Jian, currently in the process of applying for asylum in Bangkok, said Li had continued his political activism while in Thailand, setting up the Southeast Asia branch of the banned opposition China Democracy Party (CDP).


Dozens of CDP members have been handed lengthy jail terms for subversion since the party was banned in 1998.


"He's in an immigration detention center on the Thai coast right now," Xing said of Li. "There is a very strong likelihood that he'll be repatriated because he set up the Southeast Asia division of the CDP."


Li, a founding member of the CDP from the southwestern province of Guangxi, escaped China with his family in 2014, before being classified a genuine refugee by UNHCR.


He was also vocal in the campaign to prevent the repatriation of Dong Guangping and Jiang Yefei.


In a related development, Thai officials on Monday denied beating six Uyghurs refugees from northwestern China's Xinjiang region, who have been detained in capital Bangkok for at least two years after they were found in a human smuggling camp in southern Thailand.


Thai police reportedly beat the six detainees inside one facility after they had an argument with officials there who watched an erotic film in their presence as well as the presence of other detainees of different nationalities on Feb. 29, according to a statement issued Saturday by the World Uyghur Congress (WUC), a Munich, Germany-based organization of exiled Uyghur groups.


"The claimed content on the [WUC's] website was false," immigration police commander Lt. Gen. Natthorn Phrosunthorn told RFA. "The Uyghur [detainees] didn't even cause a problem for police at all."


One of the Uyghurs sustained serious head injuries, while a second suffered from less severe head injuries, and the remainder was beaten on their torsos, WUC said.


The group also said Thai authorities did not allow the men access to medical treatment.


"If there is no evidence, they [WUC] cannot make a blank accusation," said Major General Werachon Sukhontapatipak, a spokesman for the Thai government, said. "In this case, we can confirm that it was not true because in the past, besides arresting them [the Uyghurs] for illegal entry, we focused on providing them with humanitarian assistance."


The six Uyghurs are part of a larger group that has been held in various facilities around Bangkok for more than two years for illegally entering the country while fleeing persecution in northwestern China's Xinjiang region.


Thai authorities released more than 170 Uyghurs last year, allowing them to resettle in Turkey, but forcibly returned about 100 to China. The rest remain in limbo in indefinite detention in Thailand.


"We realize the sensitivity [about how to treat the Uyghurs], and therefore we have provided them with humanitarian aid," Werachon Sukhontapatipak said. "We know they were under pressure to have escaped [China] because of their livelihoods and safety, but some of them voluntarily got involved in human trafficking."


Chalida Tajaroensuk, executive director of the People's Empowerment Foundation, a Bangkok-based nongovernmental organization that has provided legal assistance to Uyghur refugees, said the leftover Uyghurs have been deemed illegal migrants and have been awaiting repatriation to China or a third country.


"They are under indefinite detention, literally, but it's better than being sent back to the country of origin," she told RFA.


The WUC has called for the release of the remaining Uyghurs being held in Thai detention centers.


"It is now the obligation of the Thai government to ensure that the remaining group of Uyghur refugees is freed from detention in a timely manner and that they are provided adequate care," the WUC's statement said.


China's Xinjiang region, which is home to millions of Turkic-speaking Uyghurs, has seen an upsurge in violence that has left hundreds dead since 2012, and which China has blamed on terrorists and Islamist insurgents seeking to establish an independent state.


Uyghur exiles and rights groups, however, have criticized Chinese authorities' heavy-handed rule in Xinjiang, including police raids on Uyghur households, restrictions on Islamic practices, and curbs on the culture and language of the Uyghur people, and forcing many to flee overseas, often through Southeast Asia.



Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Shillong, March 21 (IANS) Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday admitted that there was a need to strengthen security along the international border in the northeastern region to curb ...
The rules of cycling are, usually, pretty simple. You put your head down, you turn the pedals. You try to keep a steady cadence. You watch out for cars on the roads and rocks on the trails, you keep ...
Thailand's 4G expansion was thrown into disarray yesterday after a telecom company that beat more established rivals at an auction last year failed to meet its first payment deadline, ...
/* The tag in this template has been generated for use on a non-SSL page. * If this tag is to be placed on an SSL page change the "http" to "https". */ --> ...
(FILES) This file photo taken on January 30, 2015 shows an illustration of an iPhone held up in front of the Apple Inc. logo.Apple said February 22, 2016 it would accept having a panel of experts ...
The Bank of Thailand will face a tough policy decision, while South Kore will release its fourth-quarter growth report and Japan offers up an inflation reading in a holiday ...
A Phuket-Moscow flight with 369 people on board was grounded for six hours for an emergency inspection after one of the passengers said he didn’t feel safe. The airport ...
Barack Obama and his Cuban counterpart Raul Castro vowed on Monday in Havana to set aside their differences in pursuit of what the US president called a "new day" for the ...
Htin Kyaw, left, newly elected president of Myanmar, walks with National League for Democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi, right, at Myanmar's parliament in Naypyitaw, Myanmar ...
Thailand face their biggest game in recent memory when they play Iraq in Tehran on Thursday, needing just a point to guarantee passage into the final stage of AFC qualifying for the 2018 ...
TOKYO - The dollar held firm against the yen and the euro on Tuesday, after two Federal Reserve officials suggested the US central bank may raise interest rates as soon as next ...
CUPERTINO, United States - Apple on Monday unveiled a new iPhone with a four-inch screen, aiming to reach consumers looking for a handset that is more affordable and compact than its flagship ...
Pete Bhodaramik, chief executive officer of Jasmine International (JAS), at the press conference on December 21, 2015 revealed business plan after winning the licence. ...
Traditional taxi, motorbike taxi and other public transport drivers are angry that the new services are offering rides at lower prices. (AFP File ...
The five O-Net subjects are maths, science, English, Thai and social studies, religion and culture. Assoc Prof Samphan Phanphruk, director of the National Institute of ...
Chiang Mai , said reports from 90 hospitals in the area showed that the number of patients with coronary artery and respiratory diseases had increased dramatically as the region's haze worsened ...
KATHMANDU - The head of Nepal's earthquake reconstruction authority is being investigated following complaints of corruption and other irregularities, an anti-graft official said ...
The National Anti-Corruption Commission (NACC) Monday floated a proposal that investigation of cases with great impact on the public should include top officials to make the cases more ...
Following Chinese tourists' chaotic stampede and subsequent gluttonous gorging of piles of prawns at a buffet in Thailand, Phuket will be holding an etiquette course for guides working with ...
NAY PYI TAW, Myanmar - Myanmar's new president-elect told lawmakers Monday that plans to create a new ethnic affairs ministry were "vital" for the conflict-torn nation, in his maiden ...
Thailand News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Beaches, exotic temples, ruins, good food, world-class services, snorkeling and scuba diving, hill-tribe culture, trekking, nightlife, exceptional handicrafts, classical dance, friendly people and beautiful scenery are among the main attractions of Thailand.
Thailand will appeal to anyone who is interested in beach vacations or archaeology, but especially to those who want to explore exotic cultures without sacrificing modern conveniences.
Bangkok (Thailand), Mar.22. (ANI): Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of Myanmar's National League for Democracy, will be a minister in the new Cabinet when it takes power this April, ending weeks of ...
Singapore - Two maintenance staff working on elevated tracks in Singapore's mass transit system were hit and killed by a train on Tuesday, an official said. It was a rare tragedy on a train system ...
Sydney - Two pieces of debris found in Mozambique have arrived in Australia for experts to determine if they came from missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, an official says.
A huge search for the ...
Bangkok, March 22 (IANS) Haze in Thailand's northern provinces has caused 64,108 people to be hospitalised, while more patients are expected as a result of the air pollution, the media reported on ...
BRUSSELS – Terror visited Brussels Tuesday morning, as explosions rocked the airport and a metro station - in apparently coordinated attacks, killing scores of people and grievously injuring many ...
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from the United Nations Security Council sanctions list after a Chinese request, a media report said ...
BAMAKO, Mali – At least three unidentified gunmen opened fire in their attempt to force their entry into the European Union Training Mission (EUTM) headquarters in the capital of Mali, Bamako, ...
LONDON – There are “clear downside risks” to the country if Britain left the European Union, ratings agency Moody’s said on Tuesday, warning that the exit from the bloc would also lead to ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
© 1999 - 2016 Thailand News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)