2015-01~03
http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/world/archives/2016/03/01/2003640581

World News Quick Take - Taipei Times
A knife-wielding attacker yesterday stabbed 10 schoolchildren in Haikou on Hainan, severely injuring two, before killing himself, state broadcaster China Central Television (CCTV) reported on its microblog. The attacker stabbed six boys and four girls as they walked out of the gate of Yang Fan Primary School during their lunch period, an official at Haikou’s Longhu police station said. The children were taken to a local hospital, with two being treated for serious injuries that were not life threatening, CCTV said.
One of the nation’s oldest red-light districts was demolished yesterday in an operation overseen by hundreds of police and troops, as authorities press on with a plan to close all brothel areas in the nation. Dozens of illegal bars and brothels along a polluted riverside strip in north Jakarta — known locally as Kalijodo — were reduced to rubble by excavators in a matter of minutes. North Jakarta Mayor Rustam Effendi, who oversaw the demolition, said the buildings were illegal and the demolition would make way for a public park. The plan angered long-time residents and there had been fears that protesters would try to disrupt the demolition, but thousands living in the area agreed to leave in the days beforehand and the operation went smoothly. Prostitution is illegal in the country, but is rampant in major cities.
The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has expelled two senior officials in Xinjiang for corruption and transferred them to prosecutors, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection said late on Sunday. In June last year, authorities announced an investigation into Alimjan Maimaitiming, 56, a former secretary-general in the government in Xinjiang. The following month it said Xie Hui (謝暉), who ran the Xinjiang prison system from 2010 until his promotion in 2013 to be a vice head of the Xinjiang public security bureau, was also under investigation. The commission said Alimjan Maimaitiming was probed over “forming cliques and factions,” destroying evidence, abusing his power and having improper sexual relations, while Xie had violated party discipline and rules for the appointment of officials and received “huge sums” from undetermined sources.
The China Manned Space Agency on Sunday said the Tiangong 2 space lab will lift off some time after June, followed by a pair of astronauts in the Shenzhou 11 spacecraft, who will dock with the lab and live on board for several days. Next year, the Tianzhou 1 cargo ship will be launched to dock with the Tiangong 2 and provide it with fuel and other supplies.
Authorities yesterday said about 69 homes and offices across Europe were raided, several servers confiscated and suspects arrested in connection with online forums used to sell weapons, drugs and fake documents. The Federal Criminal Police Office said that the raids were carried out in cooperation with police in Bosnia, Switzerland, France, the Netherlands, Lithuania and Russia last week. The main suspect, a 27-year-old Bosnian, was arrested in his home country. Three German men, aged 21, 22 and 29, and two Syrian brothers, aged 19 and 28, were arrested in Germany.
Comments will be moderated. Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned.