2015-01~03
http://www.laprensasa.com/309_america-in-english/2956263_china-to-take-all-necessary-measures-to-prevent-lunar-new-year-attacks.html&c=q1DkBxhW-CnCEqpIcwmd6-DrMPdHc6UAGDDKbIZ0Q9U&mkt=en-us

China to take "all necessary measures" to prevent Lunar New Year attacks :: La Prensa :: America in English
An organizer (L) with a megaphone directs actors portraying Chinese imperial guards during a dress rehearsal for a ritual sacrifice presentation for spectators during Spring Festival season, at the Temple of Earth park in Beijing, China, 16 February 2015. China is set to mark its main annual holiday called Spring Festival, which will also usher in the Lunar New Year of the Goat on 19 February. EFE/EPA/ROLEX DELA PENA
Beijing, Feb 16 (EFE).- China will take all necessary measures to guarantee public safety during the forthcoming Lunar New Year holidays, officials said Monday, after the U.S. Embassy in Beijing warned that terrorists could planning an attack in the south of the country.
With the Spring Festival (Feb. 18 to 25) fast approaching, the authorities will take necessary measures to guarantee the people's security, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said at a press conference.
The assurances came after the U.S. embassy in Beijing published a security alert on its website warning that terrorists could be planning an attack in Kunming, in southwestern Yunnan province, during the Lunar New Year.
However, the message added that it had not been able to verify the truth of these reports.
"The Chinese government is resolute in safeguarding the security and property of the masses and maintaining the stability of the social order," Hua said.
An official from the country's internal security agency spoke of likely attempts at revenge for Beijing's campaign to detain Uighur Chinese who flee to Indonesia and Malaysia in a bid to join the Islamic State, IS, terror group, in comments carried by the daily South China Morning Post.
The Uighur, who are Muslims, live mainly in northwestern Xinjiang province.
Many seek an independent state and are influenced by foreign forces like IS to the point where they send recruits to join the Iraq and Syria-based terror organization.
But Uighur groups in exile deny the existence of any terror group in the region and attribute the violence to the repression they suffer by at the hands of the Chinese authorities, most of whom belong to the majority Han community.
The official press has also reported that the border between China and southeast Asian countries like Vietnam, Laos and Myanmar is used by jihadist networks to convey Chinese citizens to Syria and other Middle East countries for terror training.
Around the end of January, the official Global Times newspaper reported that since May 2014, police have dismantled 30 illegal immigration networks linked to terrorist activities, which in many cases ordered members to make one last desperate attack in China if they were unable to cross the border.
In Mar. 2014, eight people, alleged to be Uighurs, attacked passengers with knives at Kunming station after unsuccessfully trying to cross the border into Laos.