2015-01~03
http://asiantribune.com/node/86407

China's President Xi Jinping to visit Pakistan | Asian Tribune
Asian Tribune is published by World Institute For Asian Studies|Powered by WIAS Vol. 12 No. 1429


China's President Xi Jinping will visit Pakistan this year, China's foreign minister said in Islamabad, in what will be his first trip to the country's western neighbour since taking office in 2013. "This will be President Xi's first visit to Pakistan as head of state, and the first visit by a Chinese president in nine years," Wang said, adding that China-Pakistan relations should be a model for the region.
Foreign Minister Wang Yi made the announcement yesterday in Pakistan's capital, where he spoke of the two countries' "all-weather" friendship.
Xi was scheduled to go to Pakistan last year, but the trip was postponed due to anti-government protests in Pakistan. "Wang Yi said President Xi Jinping will make a state visit to Pakistan at the earliest possible date this year," a statement posted to the Foreign Ministry's website late on February 12 said.
Exact dates and schedules of President Xi Jinping’s visit to Islamabad would be announced soon.
On his two-day visit Wang offered help in mediating stalled efforts to engage the Afghan Taliban in peace negotiations, reflecting China's desire to play a more active role in a region it sees as part of its sphere of influence.
Afghanistan and its Western backers have been trying to bring Taliban figures to the negotiating table to end years of war in the country. Pakistan is key to the process because of its historic ties to the Taliban leaders, who have been very active in the Pakistani border region.
In countering the America’s Asia pivot plan, China is eager China-Pakistan relations should be a model for the region.
The relations between Pakistan and China have been described by Pakistan's ambassador to China as higher than the mountains, deeper than the oceans, stronger than steel, dearer than eyesight, sweeter than honey, and so on. Pakistan is China's biggest arms buyer, counting for nearly 47% of Chinese arms exports.
Pakistanis have the most favorable view of China after China itself. Maintaining close relations with China is a central part of Pakistan's foreign policy. China supported Pakistan's opposition to the Soviet Union's intervention in Afghanistan and is perceived by Pakistan as a regional counterweight to NATO and the United States.
Chinese cooperation with Pakistan has reached economic high points, with substantial Chinese investment in Pakistani infrastructural expansion including the Pakistani deep-water port at Gwadar. Both countries have an ongoing free trade agreement. Pakistan has served as China's main bridge between Muslim countries. Pakistan also played an important role in bridging the communication gap between China and the West by facilitating the 1972 Nixon visit to China.
China–Pakistan relations began in 1950 when Pakistan was among the first countries to end official diplomatic relations with the Republic of China on Taiwan and recognize the PRC. Since then, both countries have placed considerable importance on the maintenance of an extremely close and supportive relationship and the two countries have regularly exchanged high-level visits resulting in a variety of agreements. The PRC has provided economic, military and technical assistance to Pakistan and each considers the other a close strategic ally.
Bilateral relations have evolved from an initial Chinese policy of neutrality to a partnership with a smaller but militarily powerful Pakistan. Diplomatic relations were established in 1950, military assistance began in 1966, a strategic alliance was formed in 1972 and economic co-operation began in 1979. China has become Pakistan’s largest supplier of arms and its third-largest trading partner. Recently, both nations have decided to cooperate in improving Pakistan's civil nuclear power sector.
In addition, Pakistan was one of only two countries, alongside Cuba, to offer crucial support for the PRC in after the Tiananmen protests of 1989. China and Pakistan also share close military relations, with China supplying a range of modern armaments to the Pakistani defense forces. China supports Pakistan's stance on Kashmir while Pakistan supports China on the issues of Xinjiang, Tibet, and Taiwan. Military cooperation has deepened with joint projects producing armaments ranging from fighter jets to guided missile frigates.
Sino-Pakistan ties are also linked to China-Sri Lanka as well as Pakistan-Sri Lanka relations. Bilateral relations between Pakistan and Sri Lanka in the South Asia region have been progressing on a strong note. In the past, Pakistan assisted the Government of Sri Lanka in supplying High-Tech military equipment to the Sri Lankan army in the civil war against the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. The relationship also fosters on strong mutual Sino-Pakistan and Sino-Sri Lankan relationship, as China maintains strong mutual interest in the economic and military development of Sri Lanka and Pakistan.
Sri Lanka and Pakistan are two close, friendly neighbours Both Pakistan and Sri Lanka are also members of SAARC. There is a Pakistani embassy located in Colombo and a Sri Lankan embassy situated in Islamabad.
Pak-China Economic Corridor is under construction. It will connect Pakistan with China and the Central Asian countries with highway connecting Kashgar to Khunjrab and Gwadar. Gwadar port in southern Pakistan will serve as the trade nerve center for China, as most of its trade especially that of oil will be done through the port, which is already controlled by Beijing. Currently, sixty percent of China’s oil must be transported by ship from the Persian Gulf to the only commercial port in China, Shanghai - a distance of more than 16,000 kilometres. The journey takes nearly three months, during which time the ships are vulnerable to pirates, bad weather, political rivals and other risks. Using Gwadar port instead will reduce the distance these ships must travel and will also enable oil transfers to be made year-round.