2015-01~03
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2015-01-12/chinese-police-shoot-dead-six-mobsters-in-xinjiang-after-attempted-bomb-attack/1405831

Chinese police shoot dead six 'mobsters' in Xinjiang after attempted bomb attack | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
The government of the troubled western Chinese province of Xinjiang say local police have shot dead six "mobsters" who attempted to detonate explosives.
The group of men, who the police described as "mobsters", tried to set off an explosive device in the business district, prompting police to shoot six of them dead, the government said.
Police in Shule county, south of the old Silk Road city of Kashgar, had acted on a tip-off about "a suspicious person carrying an explosive device".
An axe-wielding individual tried to attack police officers and set off an explosive device, prompting the officers to shoot him.
The report added that police trying to dispose of an explosive device were attacked by five "thugs" who sought to detonate it, but did not make clear if this was a separate incident.
The official statement did not name the gender or ethnicity of the attackers but the government blames the troubles in Xinjiang on separatists from the ethnic Uighur minority.
Hundreds of people have been killed in resource-rich Xinjiang, strategically located on the borders of central Asia, in violence in the past two years between the Muslim Uighur people, who call the region home, and ethnic majority Han Chinese.
The government has also blamed attacks elsewhere in China, including in Beijing, on Islamist militants from Xinjiang.
However, spokesman for exile group the World Uyghur Congress, Dilxat Raxit said China's allegations were an "excuse to cover up the excessive use of force".
"China's hostile policy will only provoke more turbulence there," he said.
Many Uighurs call Xinjiang East Turkestan. China often blames frequent outbreaks of violence there on extremists agitating for an independent nation.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest. Beijing has denied this.
In a previous outbreak of violence in Shule in 2008, at the time of the Olympic Games in Beijing, three security officers were stabbed to death and another wounded by attackers police described as "terrorists".
Xinjiang is crucial to China's growing energy needs, but analysts say the bulk of the proceeds from sales of its resources has gone to majority Han Chinese, stoking resentment among Uighurs.
China has blamed the East Turkestan Islamic Movement for past attacks, but experts and rights groups have cast doubt on its existence as a cohesive group.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.