2015-01~03
http://www.womenofchina.cn/womenofchina/html1/news/leaders/1501/2221-1.htm

ACWF President Encourages Xinjiang Women to Help Build Harmonious Society - All China Women's Federation
Shen Yueyue (front right) visits a factory in Xinjiang on January 26, 2015. [Urumqi Evening News/Su Junya]
Shen Yueyue, president of the All-China Women's Federation (ACWF), has encouraged women in northwest China’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region to play their unique part in building a harmonious family and a harmonious society.
Shen, who is also vice chairperson of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC), made the statement during her visits to the enterprises, communities and families in Urumqi — capital of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region — on January 26, 2015.
During her visits, Shen examed the region’s women-related work and initiatives as well as the ongoing program of looking for the "most beautiful families" in the region. In this context, ''beautiful'' refers more to inner beauty than physical attractiveness. .She emphasized that this program must be carried forward to attract more families to join in.
Accompanied by Zhu Hailun and Erkenjiang Tulahong, members of the Standing Committee of the CPC Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Regional Committee, Shen visited the Xinjiang Mriana Ethnic Embroidery Company, an enterprise established in 2006 and now with 56 branch stores in operation across the region. This company produces over 200 kinds of garments characteristic of the Uygur culture, and its products are sold to foreign countries and regions, like Azerbaijan, Iran, Dubai, and Malaysia. Among the 115 workers, over 90% are female, and Zulipiya Maimaiti is one of them. She has been working in the company to support her family and is happy and confident about the future. Shen talked amiably with her about the life and work. Also, Shen encouraged Tajiguli Keremu, one of Zulipiya’s fellow villagers, to master techniques and change her fate by starting her own business.
In the Kangtai community of southeast Urumqi’s Tianshan District, Shen visited the local Women's Home, where training programs for crafts like weaving, cross-stitching, painting and calligraphy are organized for women. Partnered activities such as "Good Neighbors" and "Good Sisters" are also carried out, uniting people of different ethnic groups together. Shen expressed her great appreciation for these programs and activities. In the community reading room, she invited a 7-year-old Uygur girl to read a story in Mandarin Chinese, and her clear and standard pronunciation was greeted with loud applause.
When visiting the community monitoring room, Shen was told that 8 billion yuan (U.S. $1.28 billion) had been invested to strengthen the building of the primary organizations in Urumqi, with the number of community-level organizations increasing in recent years from 400 to 818 and the number of community workers from 3,000 to over 31,000, to which she expressed her great appreciation.
In addition, Shen paid a visit to Maimaiti Tuerdi's family, one of the representative families of the "Most Beautiful Families" program, in Kangtai Community. She expressed the hope that more households would participate in this campaign and build harmonious families, so as to lay a solid foundation for harmonious communities and a harmonious society.
(Source: Urumqi Evening News/Translated and edited by Women of China)
Please understand that womenofchina.cn,a non-profit, information-communication website, cannot reach every writer before using articles and images. For copyright issues, please contact us by emailing: website@womenofchina.cn. The articles published and opinions expressed on this website represent the opinions of writers and are not necessarily shared by womenofchina.cn. 
Copyright 2005-2014 All rights reserved. Women's Foreign Language Publications of China.  Email: website@womenofchina.cn