2015-01~03
http://www.hongkongherald.com/index.php/sid/231444843

Court Rules Suspected Uighur Family Must Remain in Thai Custody - Hong Kong Herald
BANGKOK - A Thai court Friday ruled that a family of 17 - suspected to be Uighur Muslims - must remain in custody until their nationalities are proven.
The court rejected the refugee family's contention that indefinite detention in the kingdom is illegal. It said Thai authorities must continue to hold them until identification documents are received from both China and Turkey.
The case has pitted Turkey against China, with Thailand seemingly reluctant to make a decision that would anger either of those countries.
The family's lawyer, Worasit Piriyawiboon, said all 17 have relatives and a house in Turkey and their nationalities now should be beyond dispute. They all obtained passports from Turkey's Interior Ministry that make them "officially Turkish citizens."
But China claims the refugees are from its Xinjiang region and must be repatriated.
"They have to remain in Thailand subject to verification of nationality. So nothing has changed," a spokesman for Thailand's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Sek Wannamethee, told VOA shortly after the court decision.
Fifteen members of the Teklimankan family were apprehended by police one year ago after illegally entering Thailand from Cambodia. Since then two children have been born to the family.
The family's lawyer said the Uighurs have to pay for the cost of staying in the detention center, as well as their food, water and any medication.
Phil Robertson, deputy director of the Asia division for Human Rights Watch, said conditions in the detention center are poor.
"We're talking about small children. We're talking about infants that are being condemned to stay in overcrowded and unsanitary conditions in the immigration detention center indefinitely because Thailand doesn't want to believe the Turkish government when it says that these people are Turkish citizens," said Robertson, speaking to VOA from Berlin.
Thailand's decision in this closely-watched case has implications for more detainees than just the one family.
"At this time there are over 300 people that are in this dilemma, essentially stalled in an effort to go to Turkey - people who have all claimed to be Turkish citizens, people that have been interviewed and assessed by the Turkish government," said Robertson. "And the Turkish government has said that 'yes, indeed, these are our citizens and we want them all to go.'"
Under pressure from Beijing, some Asian countries - including Cambodia, Malaysia, Pakistan and Thailand - have sent fleeing Uighurs to China.
There are an estimated 10 million Uighurs in Xinjiang. The Turkic-speaking ethnic minority has not accepted rule by China, which has been accused of repressing the Uighurs' culture and religion.
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt.
Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is still battling illegal fundraising and financial services are proving to be insufficient.
The governor of the People’s Bank of China (PBoC) sounded a stern warning over rising debt levels, claiming that corporate lending as a ratio to gross domestic product had become too high and the country must develop more robust capital markets.
He added that the nation still needs regulation to guard against excessive leverage in foreign currencies.
Zhou explained, “Lending as a share of GDP, especially corporate lending as a share of GDP, is too high.”
Adding that a high leverage ratio is more prone to macroeconomic risk.
Speaking amidst the country’s top officials and pioneering global executives like Facebook Inc.’s Mark Zuckerberg, UBS Group AG’s Sergio Ermotti and International Business Machines Corp.’s Ginni Rometty, Zhou said that one option for addressing high leverage is to develop “robust capital markets.”
He urged that the the country should channel more savings into the capital markets, which will help reduce leverage in the corporate sector and boost equity financing.

BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
The Hong Kong stock market has moved higher now in three straight sessions, collecting more ...
<br> <br> The teenage face of Hong Kong’s pro-democracy movement announced on Sunday he will ...
<br> <br> Hong Kong’s dollar rose for a fourth day toward the stronger end of ...
Get the latest Hong Kong Herald headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Hong Kong Herald - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved