2015-01~03
http://www.dawn.com/news/1156961/burqa-banned-in-chinas-muslim-region-xinjiang&c=5HmdfHNxD-cqS4LJ0ejL-WpaUTWSVXgpWvk1XbCqAiA&mkt=en-us

Burqa banned in China's Xinjiang - World - DAWN.COM
China has banned the wearing of burqas in Urumqi, the capital city of Xinjiang, where a majority of Muslims reside, said a report published on The Telegraph.
Residents have been banned from wearing burqas in the city of 3.1 million people, in "an effort to curb growing extremism," state media had announced earlier this week.
Xinjiang is home to the Uighurs, a largely Muslim, Turkic-speaking group as well as a growing number of Han Chinese migrants who have poured into the region which borders Pakistan, Afghanistan and Kazakhstan.
"Burqas are not [a] traditional dress for Uighur women, and wearing them in public places is banned in countries such as Belgium and France," reported Xinhua, China's official news agency.
Recently, there has been a rise in deadly clashes in China, which Beijing describes as Islamic terrorism. However, some experts claim that these clashes are due to ethnic tensions between Uighurs and Han Chinese migrants.
The Chinese leadership insists that religious fanaticism is the driving force behind the recent rise in bloodshed. On the other hand, human rights groups argue that the government violates the Uighurs' rights to freedom of worship.
The groups also say that the Community Party's rigid policies on religion are serving to further radicalise Muslim youth in the region.
Xinjiang's Communist Party chief Zhang Chunxian recently urged officials to "brandish the sword and advance against terrorists in a full-on approach".
In May last year, Beijing commenced a so-called "people's war on terror" following a market bombing in Urumqi which left 31 people dead.
More on this: Anti-terror drive launched in Xinjiang after bombing
Earlier this week, police in another part of Xinjiang stated that they had killed six "attackers" who had been attempting to launch an attack with bombs strapped to their bodies.
LOL ..no comments from taller than ocean and deeper than mountain friends....Good ob china.
good move ...Women should free to dress as they like not how other think
Where are my pakistan friends? i dont see any comments
No protest march , no shouting by extremist in the streets. No resolutions in the parliament. Because China is all weather friend of Pakistan. Think what would happen if this has happened in other country like India.
Let me guess. What will my Pakistani friends will say.
1) It is China's internal matter.
2) China is a communist country, they don't believe in religion.
3) It is a good decision.
Replace China with any other country then see how tone of the comments change. Sometimes I wonder how people can live with such a heavy load on their conscience, they ever talk honestly with their inner selves? If they do talk then how do they cope with it?
Every Pakistani was opposing when France banned Burqa, Now what about all weather friend..sweeter than blah-2..
I wonder whether hafiz saeed,hamid gul will initiate a jihad in China against Chinese government??
All weather friend of a nation specifically created for Muslim people of pre independence India..
No disrespect to any religion but people around the world are not comfortable with others having their faces covered. For security, courtesy or any other reasons, we need to see the faces of who we are dealing with. Simple!
Are Pakistan leaders who want to be guardians of world wide Muslims dare to oppose it?
Being a Muslim is our duty to be example for non Muslim. We should be asked by others that who are you? Not other way around to tell others that we are Muslim. Feel shame, the world considered us in this manner due to our current character.
Anything goes as long as we are talking about china, right my Pakistani friends? Remember when France did the same, Pakistanis were furious. But China is a friend, he can't do anything wrong. Ah hypocrisy!
irony is that who is banning their religious belief and activity they are their friend. and where muslims are most happy and enjoying highest freedom in the world they are their enemy. that indicates their common sense is dead.
And Pakistan thinks China is their all weather friend. Will Pakistan dare to launch an oppose to their solemate China?
Bunch of Indians ganging up every time there is a Uighur news on Dawn.....come on guys, this is getting really repetitive and boring.
It the ban is done by Western countries or US or even india, there will be big hue and cry and rallies taken out and public properties will be damaged. Now, forget about the cricism by pakistanis, there is not much comments also about violation of this basic human right. Where all the ulemas, Hafiz saeeds, Hamid Guls etc. have gone? Is it because, china is an all weather friend and they are authorised to do anything to the muslims> So much of hypcrocy.
Should we expect there would be a large protest against China in upcoming days on the streets on Pakistan?
My Pakistani friends, we are with you, we wont allow china back stab pakistan.
thanks Dawn for being even as impartial as you have in this report. The best way to deal with conflict anywhere is to encourage migration. Imagine what would happen if people from all over India and Pakistan could enjoy such freedom. If the state had any sense it would have banned the Burqa in Pakistan in 1947 before which time it was banned in the family in which I was born.
It was banned two days before. Why so late Dawn?
Good descision by china terrorists should be dealt with iron hands. Pakistan should also do the same ban burqas.
No commnest from Pakistan????? i m going crazy.....Cmon Pakistan, say something about your friend....why double standards???
@raj 
you mean taller than mountains and deeper than ocean?
@KRana Burqa is not in Islam. It never was. It was injected by our narrow minded molvis. Parda and burqa are two different things.
China has banned everything Islamic in China. Even practicing Islam in the public and festivals of Islam in public. Still China is the best friend of Islamic republic of Pakistan.
and here we go all indians get an opportunity to indulge pakistan in to this. Why you are calling us? are you guys obsessed with pakistan? Its China and women and what has to do with it? As far as wearing burqa or not it altogether a individual own choice and its my opinion please Indians don't think whole Pakistan is saying this
@Usman - Your PM goes on and on about mountain, ocean and honey. We want to see some comments from your government in this case. After all its Islamic Republic of Pakistan. If you can protest the French ban on burkhas, why not the Chinese ban? Why the double standards?
Look....inner side or yourself then decide veils is good or not?????? As per Pakistani law Burqa is not essential for women, not only in Pakistan but also in China. Why we are deciding Burqa is good or not lets decide the lady who wants to wear Burqa to cover his whole body from the bad people of earth or uncover his body.
Ok Indians. Since you are all getting excited like school children. Here you go.
Burqa i.e. full face covering, is not mandatory according to majority of Muslim scholars but banning people from what they choose to wear, or not, is not the way to go be it in Paris or Beijing or Urumqi. Since we are yelling about freedom of speech and expression since last week, how is it freedom to ban a piece of cloth? Having said that, its up to France or China how they write their own draconian laws and Muslims living in these countries will have to abide by them.
I am a Pakistani Muslim and I support this Ban. Hafiz saeed and other radicalized mullah's do not represent the moderate majority of this country. So I would advise all foreign hate mongers here to go and put your own house in order instead of poking your nose into what's going on in here!!
modern state has provided it's citizen to practice any religion!
Why muslims are not being provided this right?
Do they don't have a right to practice their religion & conscience.
Burqa and Hijab/veil such injunctions are enforced for the betterment of the society.
@Agha Asad Raza So why so much anger towards France and towards women such as Yasmin Alibhai Brown in UKRAINE for saying precisely the same. She is a practicing liberal Muslim.
Those good muslims who insist on burqa as per their holy book, could you guarantee that the terrorists will not make use of full advantage of hideous nature of this apparel to do dastardly acts? The moral is, it the humans who must decide their fate, even if it warrants going completely against the word of the lord.
@wld this is not about Pakistan and China ! This is about Muslim women , and non Muslim world
I wonder why you all link Islam with Pakistan only ? Islam is not only in Pakistan ! There are many more Muslims living in other countries , and they will feel the same for this issue as Muslims living in Pakistan.
It is not the question whether Burqa comes under Islam or not. The issue is, if a women wants to cover her face for a purpose and if she is stopped from doing it, then it is a inhumane act. It is against the rights to women, whether it is done in India or China.China should come up with other alternative to tackle terrorist.
@Akbaruddin 
Yes we can live with it and this is called a successful foreign policy.
This is the same idea why as to one day Modi became a visionary leader all of a sudden in the eyes of United States.
Freedom of expression doesn't exist in China. So be it.
@Naveen 
Yes it is.
It has also banned other religious activities to. Last I check it was a communist country and has "good" relations with many other countries expect Pakistan.
Why are all the Indian readers here so jealous of our relationship with china? I think nothing should be banned. Women should wear whatever they want.
@Gaurav Arya 
The whole world is a "double standard"
What will you call John Kerry's visionary leader concept regarding Mr. Modi?
@lafanga burqa is a religious clothing and goes against secularism. Burqa represent non separation of state and religion.
@Rasheed all of Pakistan protested when France banned Burqa. Now?
Curbing religious freedom will always backfire no matter which religion it is. Human nature will not accept it. China is moving in the wrong direction and it is the duity of Pakistan to consult their "all weather" friend when he are wrong.
@Zee why non muslims are not allowed to wear what they want Islamic countries. Burqa is not a secular cloth but a religious one. Burqa represent segregation not integration with society.
@Manoj and you think banning burqa will allow women to wear whatever they want ?? what if they want to wear burqa ? what if they are more comfortable in it ? Now they have to think about others and their thought, insecurities, fear and will have to dress accordingly!!!!
@Rasheed thanks for your lecture. but, if his was done in India, all Pakistanis would have jumped to criticize India.
As a Chinese myself, I do not fully agree with this policy. Oppression can never solve the root problem. But well what can I do? We ordinary citizens have little say in Policy making in China. We only hope that our Pakistani friends won't hate us because of this :(
@akkk @lafanga: If you dont want Indians to be obsessed with posting on your sites, then the same must apply you too. Stop commenting on the lives of Muslims in India. Even article in Pakistani newspapers on Modi have a mention of the Gujarat riots. Pakistanis are the forefront of commenting on those forums. If that's fine, so is this.
Simply ridiculous ! though it's best friend Pakistan assured its help in war against terror China decided to ban the Burqa ? A terrible miscommunication indeed, seems the translator failed miserably in communicating Pakistan's support when the top leaders met.
@Manoj 
In first words you say good while in other words you are opposing your words.
yes they should be free it depends on their well, they want to wear or not.
@goldconsumer I hardly find any logic in your reply to me but my friends here has always showed lack of logical thinking. You are saying "Yes we can live with it and this is called a successful foreign policy". Do you mean to say every pakistani commenting here is foreign office spokesman? I am talking about honesty of ordinary citizens like you and me. LOL
@lafanga 
OK agree. Now do not worry about Indian muslims and BJP every other day.
@vijaykumar "@raj you mean taller than mountains and deeper than ocean?"
I think he mean what he said and I agree with him about china - taller than ocean and deeper than mountains.
In Pakistan we are been told China is our friend. But it does not like Islam. They don't give a single dollar to help us except when they want to invest with there Material and People but not cash. Is China our real friend? Don't they know we are a Muslim nation and we don't like this?
You cannot ban someones faith and religious belief , if a lady wants to wear Burqa she should be allowed to. Its killing human right for living and following his or her belief. How can Burga grow extremism? Crazy rules of country
@goldconsumer - Check the World Bank report. World Bank is indeed supporting Modi is the visionary leader and report created by World's leading economists and published by World Bank says that "India is set to become the fastest-growing big economy in the world in the fourth year of Narendra Modi's government, edging past China". It has explained how Modi's policies will make India fastest growing economy in the world. You may get a link in the internet....
As expected, the Indian trolls are here in herds. LOL! Never let a moment go to try to smear Pakistan.
It is China's internal matter and if it feels that by banning Burqah can help curb militancy then by all means do it. However, China needs to investigate the root cause of militancy for a real solution.
@Whatever for a normal Chinese you have good English skills I wonder what your REAL name is.
@AXH So ban by european countries, specially by France should not also be protested as it is France's Internal matter
@Vinsin "burqa is a religious clothing and goes against secularism"
First of all burqa is not religious clothing. It's cultural. Women can cover their faces while wearing jeans. Secondly, I did not know secularism had a dress code for women. If that is true then what is it? What about nuns who cover their head in all secular countries? What about Sikhs and their turbans? How about Hindus with the red bindi on their forehead? Does secularism mean that we all dress alike like in Mao's China or Stalin's Russia or does secularism mean that people can choose what to wear?
@lafanga Except that wearing burqa hides your identity and makes it very difficult to identify the wearer in a crime case.
First of all, burqa was banned in Turkey many decades ago and we had no issue with it then and no issue even now.
@Naveen - When France banned it, I had the same stance that France had every right to ban veil if it felt that it was causing an issue in its society.
Pakistan must fix internal issues first then worry about neighbors.
Islam does not mandate burqa but a decent dress where undue attention is not drawn to women.
I think a lot of muslim women wear a burqa for reasons other than religion. I know one Indian muslim couple who were in the US for a couple of years. The lady in question always went around in a Burqa, and the politically correct Americans always went out of their way to be "respectful". However, the day they were back in India, the lady discarded her burqa and posted facebook photos as usual in jeans and t-shirt with a gaudy lipstick. Why? Because in India, the burqa is worn by muslim women belonging to the lower economic strata, not by "cool" and "hip" US-returned people. What hypocrisy!
I wonder why Pakistan is so scaresd of China. America after equipping and training their army, providing millions of dollars for various projects including health and educations gets kicked and insulted day after day.America was the only country that stood by Pakistan during 1971 and moved their mighty 7th. fleet towards bay of Bengal. Then why China who has practically done nothing except furthering its own interest in Pakistan is so much cared or all the time. Any explanation?
@AXH Here comes the theory of "Internal matter" yet again. France banning burqa was "Foreign affair"..?
Hypocrisy my friend, Hypocrisy ..!!
@jaatboy Why should they. This is a Chinese matter. WE have no problem with China or any country in the world except India. this is Because Kashmir is illegally occupied by India. Have a fair referendum in Kashmir under International observers and let the Kashmiris decide either way, then this dispute will also be over and then we will not have a problem with anyone.
@KRana Oh really and how did 190 million Pakistani object, you live in a dreamworld.
So, your biggest enemy India which you blamed and separated has no such ban on Burqa and your all weather friends does ban Muslims to wear Burqa in a style.
Where are the establishment of Pakistan and specially Mr. Zaid Hamid?
@Rahul What you think that it is double standards to respect friends are you mad. We are not friends with you but are with China face facts.
Dawn could do a social experiment. Simultaneously release two different articles, one stating "India bans Burqa" and one stating "China bans Burqa", the former fiction and the latter a fact. Oh the sweet hypocrisy in the comments that would follow! :D
@Naveen Yes it is still the best friend. We are not religiously obsessed like Indians are. It is India that has consistently elected Hindu facists parties and is obsessed by religion.
@vijaykumar Reversing was done deliberately to highlight the hypocrisy and absurdity of Pakistani reaction in these kind of news from anywhere else.
It looks as if Chinese govt has failed in provision of equal status to its citizens. Such measures will increase extremism rather than decreasing it. Dress should be an individual matter; state should not interfere in it.
@Hasan Hasni love your honesty bro, you are a good man or you will be successful bcz you have eye to identify your weakness without sham, gud luk
@Naveen I guess you never been to China. I live in Hong Kong and make frequent visits to China. I see huge new mosques being built there with people turn around even more than an Islamic country would see.
I am not someone who is pro-burqa. But if one wishes to do so than that should be their own choice. Putting a ban on someone who wants to wear a burqa, that I am against. Putting a ban on someone who wants to force someone else to wear a burqa, that I would fully support.
@PakiAnon So does a ski mask. Would you like to ban them as well? How about the little surgical white mask that lots of people in polluted cities wear to keep out the fumes. It's very common in cities like Beijing? People wear different masks during Halloween also. Maybe we should ban all masks from the planet.
let the women go free and give them right to live how they want, as we men do.
@Saqib From what I understand parda has more to do with occultation
How a person wants to dress should be a matter of his or her choice and not of dictate either of the Governments or Religious fanatics.
Ahh....An opportunity for India to drive a wedge between Pakistan and China
@jaatboy This is ignorance at its best, there are educated Chinese who can speak English. Don't know what ur logic is here. Please come to china one day and you will see.
@Abdul Perhaps imposed by the male dominated society. Interpreted by some mullas as wearing burqa is mandated b y Islam!!
@proud_Pakistan - Indian government has development on mind, not putting a wedge in between two "friends".
I am against this kind of burqa. Hijab is acceptable.
Looks like all weather friend is not interested in religious freedom.
@lafanga now we are speaking the same language my friend
It is an individual's choice to dress the way one wants. Banning the Burqa is same authoritarian way, as state asking women to wear Burqa.
Chinese don't care Muslims. So they banned veil, they didn't allow Muslims to fast during Ramadan.
Look at the excitment of all the Indians here! How adorable!
I believe this article has more comments from across the border... not surprisingly all negative! Nice try but nothing creates a rift between "All weather" friends (loud and clear).
No wonder our friendship and bond bites your eyes so bad..
Yes it is 'internal matter in the burqua " why would any body hope to get comments from insecure and infatuated 'friends' of Chinese .
Where is the United Nation and Humain Rights Supports, Wearing burqa is not terrorism. Why should they banned?
You don't find a million pakistanis march thru the streets to protest this? On the other hand if India had done that? Or any western country? You don 't hear Nawaz complain do you? Or the various Jammats either or even Imran Khan, the brave who marries at 60+ for the nth time even as he wants to play the savior.
This is disgusting, only recently china was forcing muslims to eat pork during Ramadan, and this is our friend? No thanks
A very disappointing news. There must be no coersion in dress. Those that want to wear Burqa, let them wear it and those not wanting to wear it should not be forced to.
@Saqib Did you do something about this . Charity begins at home.
@Akbaruddin they don't talk about it.. It's simply ignored.. Mass national delusion
China surely is an all weather friend of Pakistan and will remain so despite of Indian desire to dent the relationship.
Regarding ban on burqa , the decesion is taken not bcz of the religious extremism but due to security concerns bcz it's difficult to identify the Muslims and non Muslims behind the burqa. I think it's a good move to unveil the real people.
As long as the face itself, which is the identity of a person, is not covered, it should not matter what kind of dress people wear. I remember reading a case where a woman clad in a full burqa went to get a driving license. She refused to show her face for the photograph! That is just absurd.
@jay patel 
Lets have a protest march in Islamabad against China.
Come on Mullahs please organize and lets have a great
street party after the protest march.
Assault on Muslim rights by China. What is UN doing? Why is our foreign ministry not raising this issue with Chinese.
@Whatever 
If you do not agree with the Chinese policy,I expect you to protest against the Communist
China
Its inappropriate policy.How come that ban on burqa would lessen extremism,rather it could escalate it when you put restraints in someone's religious matters.
China give Damn to religious freedom and human rights, and that's why Muslim world is silent, there is not a single protest or statement against Chinese leaders. Can Pakistan Gov. summons Chinese ambassador and lodge a protest? Noo Wayyy....It's China Babyyy!!!!
Good job China. Please come to Pakistan and implement the same here. If Saudi Arabia is allowed to interfere then why not China
@jen agreed completely. One of the best non-state ways to deal with the burqa is for men to begin wearing it too.
Smart move. A strong nation can do it. No reaction from any Muslim nation, Islamic countries commlttee, terror set-up. If govt is tough such decisions can be taken. They are follwing France and backlash of Parish attacks will soon be seen all over the world why just China.
@A shah nobody forces them to eat pork. Please get ur facts straight.
@IndianMan :You cannot ban someones faith and religious belief , if a lady wants to wear Burqa she should be allowed to. Its killing human right for living and following his or her belief. How can Burga grow extremism? Crazy rules of country:
I think its to reduce the risk of bad people doing bad things while hiding behind a burqa. Not at all implying that anyone wearing burqa is bad, but saying that in this day and age, it can be used as a cover, e.g by a suicide bomber to hide explosives, their identity, etc. Given everything that goes on these days, its just harder to trust people when you can't see their faces. Otherwise, who cares, people should be free to wear whatever they want as long as they don't use their clothing to harm others.
It is surprising that - The "burhka ban" is not protested by any of the Muslim countries, leaving apart Pakistan who treats China as its all weather friend. The similar ban in France was opposed. Why is this double standard followed by Muslims ?.
@Usman It may be boring for you. But, a clear double standard by Muslims across the world. Not a single unit of Muslim community has raised this issue. Why anti-muslim sentiments demonstrated by chinese- Banning of veil, Prohibitting Ramadan fast etc. are tolerated ?.
@Iqbal all are shivering in their shoes? Forget. It is teh security of the country that is more important than some dress preference
@A shah What 's the problem with pork? It is much tastier than greasy lamb, more environnemental friendly and healthier, that's also why it is much cheaper.
This chinese action was much worse than that of Danish cartoons...The public reaction was terrific.for the cartoons. Where are those guardians of religion now ? There is not even a verbal protest from pakisthan public....What a travesty ?
I think this is a good move by China as there are people who take the name of Muslims for their wrong doing, so this step will definitely stop them from defaming Muslims.
.....yesterday National Assembly passed a resolution against France. Would they do it against all weather friend today....??????????
@Syed Without us these chat rooms will be so dull. Would you even read stuff like this?Will Modi bashing be any fun?No bickering, no "atleast we are not as bad as you"?
Nooooo......you must have us!!!
@Karrar Yes bro. You are right. The comment from Indians is uncalled for.
People wearing Islamic-style clothing and large beards are banned from riding public buses during the Xinjiang Sports Games in northwestern China, a Communist Party-run newspaper reports.
The ban went into effect Monday in the city of Karamay, in the country's restive northwestern Xinjiang region.
@El Indiano Most Muslim women in US with exceptions of converts don't wear burqa and no one bothers them. In many Muslim countries Muslim women get sexually harassed even in burqas.
China is always take right decisions at right times. Appreciate China for bold steps.
there's simple solution - those who oppose this change in law cud migrate to muslim country
@KNS please read the newspapers regularly and follow up the news.that will answer ur question,
@Iqbal yes, very true. u r absolutely right. where is the UN?
Irrespective of whether Pakistan or other Muslims around the world comfortably choose to ignore mistreatment of their BROTHER's rights, because, hey it is CHINA !!! (and not India or France or US)
What I dread; China is moving towards the same path it took against Falun Gong.
For many who may not be aware, Falun Gong was a spiritual and meditative philosophy (and not even a religion) which was never involved in violence within China or outside. However Communist party got worried when millions around China started relating to it. The one party atheist rule of Communist party panicked and thought Falun Gong could challenge it in future.
And Communist party has its own ways to deal with its possible challengers.
In the late 90s came the crack down.
No one really knows how many, but tens of thousands Falun Gong followers simply disappeared. And you know what disappearance means here. Many times more were persecuted. And the world could not do anything. They could not do anything for Tibet or during cultural revolution or during Tiananmen square.
My worry is, after neutralising Falun Gong, has Communist party put Muslims on its sight as a possible challenger.
No one knows now. But trust me, everyone in the world would know in another 10 years.
Nobody wants to live with us.. I think its time that we should starts introspection.. Otherwise once oil is over they will not even care where are we.. See now US has no interest in middle east..

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
