2015-01~03
http://www.salon.com/2015/01/08/targeting_family_china_pressures_us_based_uighur_journalist/

Targeting family, China pressures US-based Uighur journalist - Salon.com
WASHINGTON (AP) — Journalist Shohret Hoshur left China 20 years ago, fearing for his safety after authorities branded him a separatist for his critical coverage of the plight of his fellow ethnic Uighurs. Now based in Washington, Hoshur says Chinese authorities have adopted another tactic to get him off the airwaves — pressuring his family.
The State Department on Thursday voiced deep concern over reports that three of Hoshur’s brothers in his native land have been imprisoned in retribution for his journalism. The 49-year-old reporter says it follows years of threats by authorities in the restive region of Xinjiang in China’s far west, where his broadcasts in the Uighur language offer a rare alternative to state-run media.
There’s been no coverage of their cases in Chinese media, but his relatives in Xinjiang have been told by police that one brother was sentenced to five years at a mass trial in June, accused of endangering state security. The other two were detained in August, apparently for “leaking state secrets” after speaking by phone to Hoshur about the trial. They haven’t been seen by their family since.
“We urge Chinese authorities to cease harassment of his family and to treat them fairly and with dignity,” State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki told a press briefing in Washington, urging respect for internationally-recognized human rights, including freedom of expression.
China’s embassy in Washington did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Hoshur reports for U.S. government-funded Radio Free Asia. He told The Associated Press that authorities began harassing his family in Xinjiang’s Qorghas county after a September 2009 story about the death of a Uighur torture victim. The pressure intensified last spring as authorities cracked down on perceived enemies among Uighurs — a Muslim minority group in China — amid a series of deadly attacks over recent months that Chinese authorities have blamed on radical separatists.
Hoshur said his brothers are farmers and merchants with little if any interest in politics or social issues, and dismisses the validity of any of the charges brought against them. He also said he won’t give into pressure to give up his journalism with Radio Free Asia, although his sister-in-law has been told by local government officials that’s the only way to get his brothers released.
“In my personal experience, the Chinese authorities could intensify their pressure after you start obeying them,” said Hoshur who has been honored at the New York Festivals radio program awards for his investigative coverage of Uighurs who have gone missing since deadly unrest in Xinjiang in 2009.
“If I leave from my job, this method can be used widely among Uighurs abroad as a successful tactic. I don’t want to be made an example of, obeying an authoritarian regime’s unacceptable demand,” he said.
The Committee to Protect Journalists drew attention to the plight of Hoshur’s brothers on Wednesday, describing it as a “long-distance tactic to suppress Uighur coverage.”
The New York-based group says China was the world’s worst jailer of journalists in 2014, with 44 in jail, up from 32 in 2013.
Named for the 15th-century Dutch artist known for vivid depictions of life in Hell, Detective Hieronymus “Harry” Bosch goes head to head with LA’s worst criminals. Actor Titus Welliver was handpicked by author and executive producer Michael Connelly to take Bosch from the pages to the screen.
Michael Connelly personally selected every LA location featured in the Bosch opening sequence. After 20 years with this character, Connelly wanted to be sure the show reflected the authenticity that longtime fans have appreciated over the years.
Actor Titus Welliver is the real deal. Having once considered becoming an NYC police officer, he was immediately drawn to this role. Much like Connelly’s own commitment to the character, Welliver is very passionate about remaining true to the source material.
In the series, Harry Bosch lent his expertise as a cop to Hollywood for the blockbuster movie The Black Echo, based on his own life story. The poster for the film hangs proudly in his living room, high above the Hollywood Hills.
Inspired by Michael Connelly’s books City of Bones, Echo Park, and The Concrete Blonde, the first season of Bosch introduced Amazon audiences to complex character Harry Bosch. Season 2, which features storylines from Trunk Music, The Drop and The Last Coyote premieres March 11th on Amazon Prime Video.
As an LA crime reporter early in his career, Michael Connelly worked side by side with the LAPD. With three LA homicide detectives on staff as consultants, Bosch lives up to its promise of authenticity.
Harry Bosch lives in the hills just above the Cahuenga Pass, the perfect spot to look out over the city he protects. Michael Connelly found this very spot in 1989, where he often returns to contemplate the city and find inspiration. Connelly also had his own home above Hollywood many years ago – in the High Tower apartments, where noir character Philip Marlowe lived in Robert Altman’s The Long Goodbye.
To ensure they would be able to realistically capture a cop’s perspective, the Bosch cast participated in special training with the LAPD, where they were faced with hard choices in real-life scenarios.
Michael Connelly’s inspiration for the gritty realness of Harry Bosch was often found during real testimonies while sitting in court as a reporter for the LA Times, including this defining exchange from Season 1, “How many people have you killed?” “I don’t know.”
Michael Connelly, an avid fan himself, wrote in a broadcast of an LA Dodgers game for the opening scenes of Season 1.
Stream Season 2 of the Amazon Original Series Bosch with Prime.
How 'Eddie the Eagle' Made an Imaginary Eighties Pop Soundtrack
See Rich Robinson's Heavenly 'The Way Home' Off 'Southern Family'
Riveting Photos Of Migrant Workers Remind Us Who Really Harvests Our Food
Court Offers Rare Opportunity for Public Comment on NYPD Spying
This is how El Niño is affecting California's devastating drought.
These cameras gave young cancer patients an adventure of a lifetime.
How the world's deepest lake and chilly weather created a can't-miss musical performance.
24 stunning photos of cities around the world turning their lights off to make a point.
How a video of a metal puppet hand eventually turned into an idea for accessibility.