2015-01~03
http://www.vietnamtribune.com/index.php/sid/229478937

Chinese police shoot dead two Uighurs at Vietnam border - Vietnam Tribune
BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese police shot dead two ethnic Uighurs trying to cross the border with Vietnam, state media said on Monday, as the public security ministry accused a separatist group of orchestrating hundreds of cases of human smuggling.Hundreds of people have been killed around China in the past two years in violence between majority Han Chinese and Uighurs, a Muslim minority from China's western Xinjiang region.Chinese authorities say they worry that Uighurs go abroad to link up with Islamist militants, but human rights groups say Uighurs are fleeing persecution under harsh government policies.A "conflict" occurred when the Uighurs "violently resisted arrest" near a highway tollbooth on Sunday night in Pingxiang city in the southern region of Guangxi, the China News Service said."Police ultimately shot dead two people, and one person fled toward a residential community," the news agency cited local authorities as saying.It gave few details of the incident, but said armed police had mounted a city-wide search for the man who fled.The flow of Uighurs across China's porous southern border has swelled in recent years and groups have surfaced in Southeast Asia seeking political asylum. On Sunday, China's Ministry of Public Security said that since May, a task force on human smuggling across the country's southwestern borders had uncovered 262 cases.The smuggling is "mainly organised abroad and controlled behind the scenes by the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) in...
HANOI, 21st March, 2016 (WAM) -- Khaled Ibrahim Abdul Aziz Shuhail, UAE Ambassador to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, has participated in the opening of the13th tenure of the Vietnamese National Assembly which convened its 11th session in Hanoi on Monday.
During the ceremony, the assembly's achievements during the last five years were highlighted and the work plan for the next five years were revealed.
The ceremony was attended by members of the National Assembly, senior Vietnamese officials, ministers, a number of heads of diplomatic missions accredited to the country, and was led by President Truong Tan Sang and Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung.

A report to mark World Water Day reveals that the poorest people in the world ...
HANOI, 21st March, 2016 (WAM) -- Khaled Ibrahim Abdul Aziz Shuhail, UAE Ambassador to the ...
3D printed Apple logo are seen in front of a displayed cyber code in this ...
The transport ministry has approved state shipping company Vinalines' proposal to auction an unused floating ...
Four companies that run the biggest chains of convenience stores in Japan are considering plans ...
Get the latest Vietnam Tribune headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Vietnam Tribune - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved