2015-01~03
http://culture.jadaliyya.com/pages/index/21173/turkey-media-roundup-(march-24)

Turkey Media Roundup (March 24)
[This is a roundup of news articles and other materials circulating on Turkey and reflects a wide variety of opinions. It does not reflect the views of the Turkey Page Editors or of Jadaliyya. You may send your own recommendations for inclusion in each week's roundup to turkey@jadaliyya.com by Sunday night of every week.]
Is Gladio Still Alive in Turkey? Commenting on the recent debates on the “Cosmic rooms” of the Turkish Armed Forces, where top documents related to the military’s operations are kept, Lale Kemal comments on the ever-presence of paramilitary counter-guerilla forces, also known as Gladio, in Turkey’s political scene.
Cosmic Room Secrets: Turkey Won the First Two Great Wars İbrahim Karagül argues that the “parallel intelligence” of the Gülen movement seeks to obtain information pertaining to Turkey’s secret history, confidential state secrets, security strategies, foreign policies, and economic goals through “Cosmic Room” operations.
New Turkey, Inc. Yavuz Baydar criticizes President Erdoğan’s recent statement that “Turkey should be run like a corporation.”
‘New Turkey’ Turned out to Be ‘Old Italy’  Commenting on Erdoğan’s statement that Turkey should be ruled like a company, and for this to happen, a presidential system is required, Mehmet Yılmaz draws parallels between Erdoğan’s vision of Turkey and Mussolini’s fascist Italy.
As Gül Disappears into the Mist… Writing about the disappearance of the former president Abdullah Gül from the political scene, Semih İdiz argues that Erdoğan played an important role in moving Gül away from the AKP.
Why Does the AKP Continue to Sustain this Failure? Cafer Solgun criticizes the National Intelligence Organization (MIT)’s direct involvement in the ruling AKP’s domestic and foreign policies.
The Presidential System: The Story's Happy Ending Markar Esayan argues that with the Reconciliation Process and a new presidential system, Turkey will be rid of the threat of fascism and military tutelage.
Turkish 'Hawks' Want to Settle Past Injustices “The Turkish military is polarized as to whether it should confront the alleged injustices perpetrated by the Gulenists against the army or if it should look to the future,” writes Metin Gürcan.
Historic Newroz 2015 and Öcalan Bülent Orakoğlu draws attention to the significant role played by the imprisoned Kurdish leader Abdullah Öcalan in the Resolution Process.
Öcalan to Make Another Historic Call on Nevruz Markar Esayan expects that Öcalan’s call for disarmament would be repeated more clearly at the Newroz celebrations in Diyarbakır on March 21.
'There is No Kurdish Issue!' Erol Göka reports that President Erdoğan’s recent statement that “There is no Kurdish issue” was meet with resistance from the HDP’s parliamentarians.
What Did Erdoğan Finish off? Criticizing President Erdoğan’s denial of the Kurdish problem, Mümtazer Türköne suggests that in every election, general or local, Erdoğan wields nationalistic rhetoric, signifying a sharp U-turn in his previous policies about Kurds.
Isn’t There a Kurdish Issue? Ali Bayramoğlu argues that, as opposed to criticisms, President Erdoğan’s statement that “There is no Kurdish issue” in fact implies that the Kurdish issue is being solved and that the state’s denial of the Kurdish issue has finished.
Nevruz as a Symbol of Kurdish Identity in Turkey Murat Yetkin reminds us that the Turkish state had banned Newroz celebrations during the 1980s and 1990s, denying Kurdish language and identity.
Kurdish Process Will Have to Wait Until After Elections “Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, you will never be able to be the super-president as long as the HDP exists,” Selahattin Demirtaş, the chairman of the HDP, said during the HDP’s party group meeting, reports Serkan Demirtaş.
Kurdish Opposition HDP Hits Erdoğan’s Super-Presidency Plan for Turkey Commenting on Selahattin Demirtaş’ one-sentence group speech, Murat Yetkin suggests that the statement was actually a denial of speculation about a secret deal between the HDP and the AKP over a new constitution after the 7 June parliamentary election.
Threatening Erdoğan Will not Help the HDP İlnur Çevik criticizes Selahattin Demirtaş’ party group speech, arguing that its only aim was to attract votes from the CHP’s electorate by targeting President Erdoğan.
Why Does Tension Work in Favor of the AK Party? Etyen Mahcupyan argues that oppositional parties base their electoral strategies on the AKP’s mistakes, but they themselves do not offer any alternative visions for the future, whereas the AKP continues to receive the same social support.
HDP’s “Becoming Turkish” Süleyman Seyfi Öğün finds the HDP’s “becoming Turkish” “extremely plastic, even scrappy,” arguing that it is a strategic move in order to attract the Turkish electorate.
Turkey and Japan in the Middle East Kılıç Buğra Kanat argues that the ad hoc cooperation and rhetorical commitment between Turkey and Japan needs to be strategized in order to provide a long term and comprehensive coordination of their policies on the Middle East.
Pakistan Warns Turkey: Don’t Make Our Mistakes Fehim Taştekin reports that the chairman of the Pakistani Senate's Defense Committee has cautioned that in Syria, Turkey is repeating  Pakistan's missteps in Afghanistan.
Ankara’s Second Thoughts About ISIS Doğu Ergil explains the important changes in Turkey's official attitude towards ISIS.
Ankara Sidelined on Syria “Ankara has hardly any influence left over events in Syria and its goal of deposing President Bashar al-Assad is no closer now than four years ago, while the persisting conflict poses ever-increasing headaches for Turkey,” writes Semih İdiz.
Turkey to Support Mosul Operation from Sidelines Metin Gürcan argues that Turkey will provide assistance to the forces organizing to retake Mosul from the Islamic State, but will not engage directly in military conflict.
Ups and Downs in Unemployment Seyfettin Gürsel suggests that ups and downs in unemployment could continue for a while, but the basic trend of unemployment is on the rise.
The Rise and Demise of the Turkish Trading State Relaying her observations from Kemal Kirişçi’s talk on Turkey’s foreign policy and trade policy, Barçın Yinanç reports that the way out suggested by Kirişçi as a solution to Turkey’s increasing loneliness in foreign relations is a re-emphasis of ties with Turkey’s traditional Trans-Atlantic community partners.
Syrians in Gaziantep: Not an Easy Integration Hasan Kanbolat writes about the changes in the social and economic organization of the city of Gaziantep, which has been one of the most favored cities for Syrian refugees fleeing violence.
Unraveling the AKP's 'Mastermind' Conspiracy Theory Commenting on a recently broadcast documentary titled The Mastermind about “the great international conspiracy targeting Erdogan’s ‘New Turkey,’” Mustafa Akyol argues that conspiracy theories promoted by the AKP only make Turkish society more delusional and irrational.
Amerikan kabusu, yeni Türkiye kabusu Ahmet İnsel draws attention to the AKP’s neo-liberal ambitions, having found their explicit manifestation in Erdoğan’s latest statement calling for a “market society and a corporate state.”
Bu 'Türkiye A.Ş.' nasıl kazanacak? Ne satacak? Hakan Aksay satirizes Erdoğan’s ambitions for “ruling the state as a corporation,” and lists steps to achieve this goal.
Erdoğan artık çöküş sürecinde! Hasan Cemal thinks that recent political developments all indicate Erdoğan’s decreasing popularity and power.
Şirket mi, ulus devlet mi, Topluluklar Birliği mi? Nazan Üstündağ’s analysis of AKP-style neo-liberalism and the HDP’s counter-politics as signifying the emergence of an alternative Turkey.
İslamcılar ve empati eksikliği According to Yüksel Taşkın, Islamists have reduced themselves to insignificant actors by accommodating their political agenda with the AKP’s politics.
Barış sürecinde sivil toplumun rolü According to Nurcan Baysal, the AKP has failed to prepare the public psychologically for peace with the help of civil society.  
Newroz yeni bir çıkış olacak mı? Adil Bayram interrogates the possible presence of a group within the state wanting to sabotage the peace process, and points out the significance of Öcalan’s Newroz statement in terms giving insight into such suspicions.
Amberin Zaman Bayık’la konuştu:”Kandil’in 6 şartı’ Amberin Zaman interviews PKK commanders Rıza Altun and Cemil Bayık in Qandil, Iraq on a wide range of issues ranging from the PKK’s regional politics to its six conditions for a permanent cease fire.
‘Kürt Sorunu’ yoksa ‘çözüm süreci’ niye var? Commenting on Erdoğan’s latest remarks which dismiss the importance of the Kurdish issue, İhsan Çaralan questions the logic of carrying out a peace process in the absence of a significant problem.
Kürt sorunu yok, seçim var çünkü Mustafa Ünal interprets Erdoğan’s dismissal and denial as being a nationalist manoeuvre aiming to increase the AKP’s vote, which he argues has decreased due to its poor performance in the peace process.
MİT ve PKK 'bir konuda' hemfikir olmuş! Ezgi Başaran concludes that the National Intelligence Organization and the PKK agree on the Gülen movement’s involvement in the Paris massacre, that is, the assassination of Sakine Cansız, Fidan Doğan, and Leyla Söylemez.
Bu Kürtler ne istiyor! Answering Erdoğan’s question “what more do you want?” Nurcan Baysal lists what the Kurds want from the state.
"Süreç devletin değil Kürtlerin" Yeni Özgür Politika'dan Osman Oğuz'un sorularına cevaplar Ruşen Çakır gives an extensive account of the current political debates, such as the AKP’s leverage in the peace process, pro-HDP voices from the CHP, the goals of the Kurdish movement in the general elections, and Demirtaş’ performance.
Diyarbakır meydanı: 'İşte kongre budur' Oral Çalışlar thinks that Diyarbakır Newroz showed Kurds’ full support for Öcalan’s peace perspective and elevated the expectations for a PKK congress where a laying down of arms will be announced.
Toplumun ve ülkenin yeniden restorasyonu According to Tarhan Erdem, Öcalan’s Newroz message appeals to the whole country in terms of its intents in building a democratic solution and peace among people.
'Erdoğan Başkan olamayacağını anladı, Başkomutan olmak istiyor' Celal Başlangıç’s report from Diyarbakır Newroz celebrations relays the crowd’s reactions to Öcalan’s message.
Öcalan’ın mektubu kime ne mesaj veriyor? According to İrfan Aktan, Öcalan’s Newroz message strengthened Kurds’ motivations for the peace process, showed the PKK’s willingness to lay down arms if the demands are met, and stated his refusal to align with anti-democratic politics.
'Erdoğan-Öcalan satrancı' ve iktidarda çatlak… Cengiz Çandar thinks Öcalan’s third Newroz statement since the beginning of the peace process showed the widened fractions between the AKP and Erdoğan rather than a divide between the PKK and Öcalan.
Öcalan'ın işaret ettiği 'hakikat komisyonu': Toplumda geçmişle yüzleşmenin yapıtaşı Nur Banu Kocaaslan relates Öcalan’s call for a truth and reconciliation commission to the experiences of such commissions in Argentina and South Africa in facilitating post-conflict peace.
Araştırmalarda ilk kez AK Parti karşıtlarının oranı AK Parti yandaşlarını geçti! Bekir Ağırdır, the head of KONDA Research and Consultancy, profiles the mood and expectations of the electorate towards the elections.
Kutuplaşma verilerinde neler değişti, seçmenin yüzde 35'i ne yapacak? According to KONDA, the percentage of AKP opponents passed AKP supporters for the first time in six years.
Tatava yapma, omurgalı ol Çağlar Ezikoğlu criticizes the HDP’s “monopolizing” discourse for the vote of the left-leaning electorate.
Ürküten ihtimal: Ya HDP’liler seçimlerin adil yapıldığına inanmazsa? Frederike Geerdink expresses her concern over a possible scenario where the HDP’s votes are suspiciously below the ten percent threshold
Merkez Bankası’nın faiz kararına Erdoğan neden tepki vermez? Vedat Özdan speculates that despite the continuation of political risk, Erdoğan is convinced about the economic repercussions of his public statements for the time being.
Ben Erdem Başçı'nın sunumunu beğendim Güven Sak applauds the presentation Erdem Başçı gave to Erdogan, arguing for a Central Bank that aims to guide the national economy rather than prioritizing development.
Suriye ve Mısır siyaseti açmazda  According to Murat Yetkin, the AKP’s foreign policy failure can be explained by its insistence in a Sunni coalition between Turkey-Syria-Egypt.
Türkiye'nin yeni IŞİD stratejisi ve beklenen Musul operasyonundaki yeri Serhat Erkmen discusses the AKP’s new ISIS strategy and Turkey’s positioning within the plans for a potential Mosul operation.
AB-Türkiye ilişkilerinde yeni bir soluk şart Members of the EU’s independent Turkey commission state that despite distant relationships, the EU needs Turkey alliance more than ever regarding the problem of IS foreign fighters, Iraq’s stability, and a solution in Syria.
Kobani krizi Gezi'den önce yaşansaydı, ABD Kürtlere silah vermezdi Ezgi Başaran’s interview with Tolga Tanış, who purports that the US would not have allied with the Kurdish forces in Syria if Turkey-US relations had not been impaired during the Gezi protests.
Dolaptaki ceset Joost Lagendijk takes on Thomas de Waal’s book on Armenian genocide and its insights into the future of the acknowledgment process.
Kozmik Oda'nın esrarı While acknowledging the politically-motivated nature of big cases like Ergenekon and Balyoz, Oya Baydar underlines the ever-presence of the deep state and its history of grave atrocities.
Aleviler Alevileri anlatıyor: Siyaset birleştirmedi dağıttı, Alevilik unutuldu, kadın silindi! (1)-(2)-(3)-(4)-(5)-(6)-(7) Nil Mutluer’s article series depicting Alevi’s current political demands, preferences, and perceptions of the AKP’s political manoeuvres regarding Alevis during the past decade.
İşçi ölümleri bilinenin iki katı Aziz Çelik argues that the official numbers of work-related fatalities and occupational accidents work to deceive the public by showing only half of the actual figures.
Türkler genetik olarak Kürtlerden üstün mü? (Gelo Tirk ji aliyê genetîk ve ji Kurdan serdest in?) Emrah Altindiş’ bilingual piece on the irrelevance of genetic arguments about the supposed superiority of Turks over Kurds, and their use in historical atrocities and injustices foundational to the history of Turkey’s nation-building.
Tarih ne ‘kahramanlık’lardan ne de ‘kara bir leke’den ibaret Commenting on the alternative historical approaches to the Battle of Gallipoli, Ayşegül Uygur Doğan underlines the need for balanced historical perspectives that do not refute official accounts which are legitimate.
Kurdish Alevi Music and Migration: An Interview with Ozan Aksoy
In Memory of Ozgecan Aslan: Sexual Violence and the Juridical System in Turkey
Becoming a 'Media Intellectual': The Platitudes and Partisanships of Etyen Mahçupyan
©2010-2016 by the Arab Studies Institute. All Rights Reserved. info@jadaliyya.comsite by concepcion design