2015-01~03
http://www.arabianbusiness.com/china-bans-burqa-in-muslim-region-578399.html

China bans burqa in Muslim region - Culture & Society - ArabianBusiness.com
We can only send passwords to the e-mail address you're registered with. If you can not remember it, or have any other problem, please e-mail registration@arabianbusiness.com
China has banned Muslim women from wearing the burqa in public in its largest Muslim city, according to government-run website, Tianshan News.
The ban was proposed by local legislators in Urumqi, the capital city of Xinjiang, an autonomous western region where Muslims account for almost half the population, according to a translation of the Tianshan News report by Quartz.
However, state media Xinhua said the legislation still needed to be finalised and it did not say when it would be implemented.
Xinhua justified the burqa ban by referring to similar legislation in France.
“Burqas are not traditional dress for Uighur women… The regulation is seen as an effort to curb growing extremism that forced Uighur women to abandon their colorful traditional dress and wear black burqas,” Xinhua said in English.
It is the latest move by Chinese authorities to crackdown on Xinjiang’s Muslims and Uighurs minority.
Last year it banned students and public servants from fasting during Ramadan and authorities have been blamed for a violent crackdowns that have seen scores killed.
Uighurs claim their rights are increasingly being abused by the Han Chinese.

Disclaimer:The view expressed here by our readers are not necessarily shared by Arabian Business, its employees, sponsors or its advertisers.

FUN DXB Vol II event, a recently held second gathering of entrepreneurs...


The recent spate of building fires in the UAE, including New...


waiting for your lip contour in Kuwait soon inshallah best of luck huda your the best more


No product ready after months, We signed up and yet waiting for the product to be ready. Every time they give us a different excuse and keep postponing... more


waiting for your lip contour in Kuwait soon inshallah best of luck huda your the best more


If I am not wrong it was the Islamic Banking arm of Emirates NBD who illegally cashed my friend Allan Paris's security cheque landing him in Jail. Please... more


I just cannot understand why all this incessant whining, yeah this is life and the standard of living is too expensive and will become far more expensive... more


waiting for your lip contour in Kuwait soon inshallah best of luck huda your the best more


A landlord is also from the same people not a super man or goldmine owner. He also lease his very valuable property to an unknown person to live and stay... more


If I am not wrong it was the Islamic Banking arm of Emirates NBD who illegally cashed my friend Allan Paris's security cheque landing him in Jail. Please... more
