2015-01~03
http://www.irishsun.com/index.php/sid/230320747

'Deaths And Injuries' Follow Clashes Between Uyghurs and Police in Xinjiang - Irish Sun
Chinese authorities in the troubled northwestern region of Xinjiang have imposed an information blackout in Hotan prefecture after a violent incident on Friday involving ethnic minority Uyghurs and police, overseas rights groups and local sources said.
At least seven people died and at least seven more were injured in the clashes, in which a young Uyghur man reportedly set off an explosive device, an employee who answered the phone at a hospital in Hotan's Guma (in Chinese, Pishan) county told RFA.
"There were seven or eight [injured] people brought here," the Pishan County Hospital employee said, adding: "There was a bomb."
"There were seven or eight [deaths] or thereabouts," he said.
Asked if the bomb was detonated by a Uyghur youth, according to online reports, the employee replied: "Uhuh."
But he hung up the phone when asked for further details.
Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the Germany-based World Uyghur Congress (WUC), said his group had also received reports of a violent incident in Guma on Friday.
"Our sources tell us that some people showed resistance to armed security personnel, which led to deaths and injuries," Raxit said.
"But it's very hard to get concrete figures, owing to the government's tight information blackout."
He added: "We are certain that clashes occurred between local Uyghur people and the police, and that these led to deaths and injuries."
A business owner in Guma's county town said the area has been under tight security since the attack.
"The riot police are here, with their batons, shields and sirens," the business owner said. "If any emergency arises, I can raise the alarm immediately, and my shop will be immediately surrounded by police [within] five minutes."
"There are police guarding the larger supermarkets," he said. "There are frequent patrols, one every 10 minutes, and there are a lot of security personnel on all the major routes into the town."
"They are checking Uyghurs and Han Chinese pretty much alike."
Last October, two Uyghurs went on a stabbing spree in Pishan, killing three police officers and three government officials before they were gunned down by the authorities, local officials said at the time.
Abdurehim Tuniyaz, 25, and Ablikim Abdurehim, 26, may have been mounting a revenge attack over the death in police custody of one of their brothers, one source said.
The ruling Chinese Communist Party last year launched an anti-terror campaign in Xinjiang following a string of deadly attacks blamed by Beijing on Uyghur separatists and Islamist insurgents seeking to establish an independent state.
But rights groups accuse the Chinese authorities of heavy-handed rule in Xinjiang, including violent police raids on Uyghur households, restrictions on Islamic practices, and curbs on the culture and language of the Uyghur people.
Uyghurs say they have long suffered ethnic discrimination, oppressive religious controls, and continued poverty and joblessness in Xinjiang despite China's ambitious plans to develop its vast northwestern frontier.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
by Muhammad Aamir SHARJAH, 21st March, 2016 (WAM) -- Shamma bint Sohail Faris AlMazrui, Minister of State for Youth Affairs, has put forward the suggestion of governmental interaction departments to enable two-way communication with the youth of the UAE.
"As a government, we face a big challenge and this is not just in the UAE but all around the world, which is getting information through social media and smart phones that poses another question for us, that is, 'what are the channels which we have to use in governmental communication to reach the youth?'. The answer to this question is important but what is more important is finding its solution. The practical solution is the two way communications, from the youth and to them," she said in her speech on the second day of the International Government Communication Forum, IGCF 2016, at the Sharjah Expo Centre.
She added, "We talk to the youth and do not listen to them, and we cannot blame the youth for not interacting with us if we do not spend the additional effort in the whole communication with them regarding the matters which are important to them. Perhaps reality soon will force us to change the names of the governmental communication departments to departments of governmental interaction and not just communication. This is the suggestion which I present today through this platform. Yes, youth wants departments of governmental interaction more than communication which is a one way path."
She thanked H.H. Dr. Sheikh Sultan bin Mohammed Al Qasimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Sharjah, for his keenness for youth and education, saying that Sharjah has one of the biggest academic complexes in the region. She said, "It is well known that education, science and knowledge enable youth, and open new horizons of the future for them. Therefore, we thank H.H. the Ruler of Sharjah for the role he played in changing their lives."
Present on the occasion were Sheikha Bodour bint Sultan Al Qasimi, Chairperson of Sharjah Investment and Development Authority, Shurooq, Sheikh Sultan bin Ahmed Al Qasimi, Chairman of Sharjah Media Centre, SMC, Mary Robinson, former President of Ireland (1990-1997) and former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (1997-2002), and Christopher Gardner, author and entrepreneur.
The Minister of State for Youth Affairs said, "Our leadership gives great attention to direct communication through all available channels within all sectors of the society, and of course under this belief is the necessity of listening to citizens and communicating with them.
"Vice President and Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, listens to everyone in society and asks for their opinions regarding matters which are important to them through different platforms.
"His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces also interacts with all sectors of society directly through his field visits. All our leaders are role models. They present to us the best example of interaction and communication with all sectors of society."
"H.H. the Ruler of Sharjah interacts with everyone and communicates with different segments of society, never hesitating to interact with them, even directly live on the radio."
She added, "At the UAE Youth Council, we are listening to the youth about matters which are important to them and we also encourage the youth in finding the best solutions for their issues. But in order to achieve this goal, we need our government speech to be two way, from the youth and to the youth.
"We need our speech and government communication to be modern, using the language of the youth. If we want to understand the youth, all of our governmental communication departments must open direct and diverse channels with them, and we have to be where they are, and communicating with them through the use of the same modern technology which they use, listening to their voices, opinions and aspirations, otherwise we would be left, in the words of H.H. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, 'Swimming against the currents'."
DUBLIN, Ireland - All of the 949 city and county councillors in Ireland are now ...
ROSCOMMON, Ireland - A 40-year-old man died following a two-car crash in Co Roscommon. Gardai ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - Dublin-based engineering services group Actavo has acquired telecom network designer Atlantic Engineering ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - DAA, which currently control Cork Airport is now said to be examining ...
DUBLIN, Ireland - A woman has now been arrested in connection to the murder of ...
Get the latest Irish Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Irish Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved