2015-01~03
http://www.womenofchina.cn/womenofchina/html1/news/newsmakers/1503/2593-1.htm

Secrets of Silk-making Handed Down in Xinjiang Family - All China Women's Federation
Sayipu Jiamali Yasen (L2) gives an interview to a China Women's News reporter. [China Women's News]
A family in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region has persisted in passing down the local traditional Idili silk-weaving techniques over the past few years with a combination of handmade and mechanical production.
Idli silk, light and colorful, is the cloth of choice for women decked out in the traditional garb of Xinjiang Uygur, and has been worn for around 2,000 years.
"My husband and I believe that it is hard to develop the Idili silk industry only by hand, so he worked as a carpenter first to earn money and then bought weaving machines to expand our productions," Sayipu Jiamali Yasen, a 40-year-old woman in Jiya Township in the city of Khotan, said in an interview with a China Women's News reporter on March 19.
The family was honored as one of the "Most Beautiful Families" in the local place last year.
"Our workshop has developed from having just one weaving machine into the current 15, with a total of 50 workers."
"These workers will return to their hometown to start their own careers after mastering the techniques," said Sayipu Jiamali gladly. "In addition, with the techniques and concept we transfer to them, they can sway the opinions of their families, relatives and neighbors, which is quite a happy thing for us."
Sayipu Jiamali said she has also registered a trademark with her name and set up a cooperative with about 50 households. The workers are mainly females, with a monthly income of about 1,500-3,000 yuan (U.S. $240-480) and the annual income of a household is between 20,000 and 35,000 yuan (U.S. $3,200-5,600).
She said that there are 1,850 Idili silk household workshops in Jiya Township, with a total of 2,065 weaving machines and an annual production value of more than 100 million yuan (U.S. $ 16.1 million). Among the workers in this industry in the area, women account for 30 percent, and each of them earn about 25,000 yuan (U.S. $ 4,027) annually, with a total annual production value in the township of about 40 million yuan (U.S. $ 6.4 million).
The weaving expert said frankly that mechanized production has had a big impact on the Idili silk industry. A technician can only earn about 1,000 yuan (U.S. $ 161) a month by hand, compared to 3,000-5,000 yuan (U.S. $ 483-805) by using a weaving machine. So a lot of young people have replaced the traditional hand weaving skills with weaving machines. "But the silk produced by machines is much worse than that by hand in techniques and quality, so I prefer hand-woven silk costumes," she said. "The silk of the skirt I'm wearing was woven by myself."
Sayipu Jiamali believes that the traditional hand weaving techniques will live on and will have their own way of development. So she has asked her daughter, daughter-in-law and workers to master the hand weaving techniques and thus they could pass down the knowledge to the next generation.
Jiya Township is the home of Idili silk and the craftwork that features the ancient dyeing method. Being a versatile material, Idili can be used to make skirts, headbands, handbags and other decorations. It is revered and highly-popular among its devotees.
Whilst Sayipu Jiamali talked to the reporter, her husband Matuxun Yisilamu returned home from the village committee to ask her to attend the celebrations of Nowruz. Nowruz, which means “spring water”, usually falls on March 21. It marks the first day of spring and the beginning of the new year on the Iranian calendar. Kite flying, dancing, eating sweet lamb stew and playing games on horseback is how the Uygur people in northwest China celebrate their start of the new season.
Sayipu Jiamali Yasen weaves Idili silk with her daughter. [China Women's News]
Sayipu Jiamali Yasen and the elderly in the village watch performances. [China Women's News]
(Source: China Women's News/Translated and edited by Women of China)
Please understand that womenofchina.cn,a non-profit, information-communication website, cannot reach every writer before using articles and images. For copyright issues, please contact us by emailing: website@womenofchina.cn. The articles published and opinions expressed on this website represent the opinions of writers and are not necessarily shared by womenofchina.cn. 
Copyright 2005-2014 All rights reserved. Women's Foreign Language Publications of China.  Email: website@womenofchina.cn