2015-01~03
http://jurist.org/paperchase/2015/01/authorities-in-capital-of-chinas-xinjiang-province-ban-burqas.php

JURIST - Authorities in capital of China's Xinjiang province ban burqas
[JURIST] Authorities in Urumqi, capital of the far-west Chinese province of Xinjiang, issued a new law Wednesday banning the wearing of burqas in public. Xinjiang, home [CNN report] to China's minority ethnically Turkic Muslim Uighurs, has been the site of significant ethnic unrest including recent attacks by Uighur separatists labeled "religious extremists" by Chinese officials. This burqa ban is the most recent ordinance enacted by Chinese authorities effectively targeting the Uighur population; earlier this year provincial authorities of Xinjiang banned students and civil servants from fasting during Ramadan. On Monday police in Xinjiang shot dead [BBC news] six people allegedly attempting to set off explosive devices in the city of Shule.
The influx of Han Chinese, China's largest ethnic group, to resource-rich Xinjiang province has led to increased ethnic tension and unrest in the region. The People's Court of Kashgar in the region of Xinjiang sentenced [JURIST report] 22 people to prison terms for illegal religious activities and other crimes. In May Chinese officials held a public rally and sentenced 55 individuals [JURIST report] for crimes such as separatism, participation in terrorist groups and violent terrorism. Also in May a "terror group" was arrested [BBC report] in Xinjiang with more than one ton of material for explosive devices. The same month 31 people were killed, and more than 90 injured, when two cars drove through a busy street market in Xinjiang, setting off explosives [Guardian report]. In April both a bombing and a knife attack [CNN report] occurred in the South Railway Station of Urumqi.







The Failure of Illicit Asset Recovery: A Haitian Case Study
 Rogendy Toussaint St. John's University School of Law 











When Equitable Remedies Give Way to Remedies at Law (or How to Avoid a Benefits Plan's Subrogation Clause)
John Klinker Loyola University Chicago Law School 











Iran's Seizure of United States Naval Personnel and Vessels
 Barry Feinstein Netanya Academic College School of Law 











Citizenship Deprivation in France: Between Nation and the Republic
 Sandra Mantu Radboud University Nijmegen Centre for Migration Law 











How Judge Garland Can Get to the Supreme Court
 David Frakt 











Class Actions Back from the Brink: The Future of Mootness and “Pick-Offs” in Class Action Litigation Following Campbell-Ewald Co. v. Gomez
 Evan M. Meyers and Paul Geske McGuire Law PC 





Paper Chase is JURIST's real-time legal news service, powered by a team of 30 law student reporters and editors led by law professor Bernard Hibbitts at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law. As an educational service, Paper Chase is dedicated to presenting important legal news and materials rapidly, objectively and intelligibly in an accessible format.


 JURIST is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization dedicated to bringing objective legal news and reasoned expert analysis to the public. 


 E-mail inquiries, changes, news tips, URLs, corrections, etc. to JURIST@jurist.org. 


 JURIST cannot and does not provide legal advice. 
 As such, nothing on this site is intended as legal advice. If you have a legal problem, please consult an attorney.


 We wish you the best of luck with your case, but we can't help.


© Copyright JURIST Legal News and Research Services, Inc., 2013. 


© Copyright JURIST Legal News and Research Services, Inc., 2013. 


 Please note that JURIST cannot and does not provide legal advice. 


 As such, nothing on this site is intended as legal advice. If you have a legal problem, please consult an attorney.


 We wish you the best of luck with your case, but we can't help.
