2015-01~03
http://www.torontotelegraph.com/index.php/sid/229990507

More Than One Million Lack Clean Water in Xinjiang's Hotan Prefecture - Toronto Telegraph
A water conservation project in a remote prefecture of China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR) begun two decades ago has yet to bring clean drinking water to more than half of the area's population, according to officials and local residents.
According to a joint report by the Water Conservancy Office of southwestern Xinjiang's Hotan (in Chinese, Hetian) prefecture and the regional Water Conservancy Department, more than one million of Hotan's two million residents lack potable water, the website Taianshen.net reported recently.
The conservation report said 20 years after the water project had begun, only 750,000 people in the prefecture had access to clean drinking water, while in areas such as Hotan's Niya (Minfeng) county, up to 80 percent of the population did not.
The issue was raised on Jan. 20 at the Third Meeting of the Twelfth People's Congress of the XUAR, Taianshen.net reported, adding that representatives blamed the shortfall on the water project being designed according to population statistics in 1995, when it was launched.
Residents of Hotan told RFA's Uyghur Service that most of the infrastructure set up through the project lacked sanitation stations and water was instead being piped directly from reservoirs to people's homes in the prefecture, leaving residents susceptible to waterborne diseases and other contaminants.
"We use piped water in Keriya (Yutian) county--it's been like that for years, at least five or six," a Uyghur farmer from the county's Achal town said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
"The water source is pretty far away. They build a reservoir and water is brought directly from there through the pipes. It hasn't been purified or disinfected. There is no facility there and this is a remote town, so ... if there are any waterborne diseases, we are out of luck."
The farmer said that a number of years ago, inspectors came to the area and proclaimed the water suitable for consumption, so residents continued to drink it.
"So far, we haven't seen anybody get sick from the water," she said.
A water official in Achal confirmed that his town relied on piped river water that simply had sediment removed from it.
"The source of our water is from the river--it's brought to the reservoir where it sits for three or four days and then it is sent to people's homes by pipes," the official said.
"We don't have any disinfection process involved here. It is just being sent out after the mud settles out of the water," he said, before cutting the conversation short.
Further investigation by RFA revealed that similar methods of delivering water had been used in other parts of the prefecture as well.
A police officer in Hotan's Lop (Luopu) county told RFA that the area's water sources were reservoirs without sanitation stations.
"The entire county uses piped water to drink, though I can't speak for other counties," he said.
A female official from the Water Conservancy Office of Qaraqash (Moyu) county said the area uses two reservoirs--one to store water and the other to drain off sediment and transfer water to households.
"I don't have specific data with me on the disinfection and water quality standards, however we have inspectors come to test the water," she said.
The official said Qaraqash also has wells, which supply water to the county's urban centers, while river water is sent to rural residents to drink.
"We use a disinfection process in our urban centers, but I can't say for sure whether they do so in the villages, as I have not seen it with my own eyes," she said.
Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the Germany-based World Uyghur Congress (WUC), said the 1995 water conservation project had done little to improve the lives of Hotan prefecture's residents.
"It is a scam that China's claim of a clean water project has been realized in the Hotan region," he said.
"This project has only changed one thing--now farmers are paying for the water that they used to drink for free."
Uyghurs say they have long suffered ethnic discrimination, oppressive religious controls, and continued poverty and joblessness in Xinjiang despite China's ambitious plans to develop its vast northwestern frontier.
They say local authorities often allocate water and provide other incentives--including grants for seeds and fertilizers--to Han Chinese farmers who have streamed to the region as part of a growing influx of internal migrants, putting a strain on area resources.
In January last year, experts told RFA that the Xinjiang capital Urumqi is quickly depleting its available sources of water and faces a looming crisis made worse by a rapidly growing population and mismanaged environment.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Hockey India (HI) on Monday picked a young squad for the 25th Sultan Azlan Shah Cup to be held in Malaysia from April 6-16, with established players like Akashdeep Singh, P.R. Sreejesh, Dharamvir Singh, V.R. Raghunath and Birendra Lakra missing, in a bid to try out "different permutations and combinations", according to its president, Narinder Batra.
"This squad is nothing about seniors or juniors. We are trying out different combinations and permuations in the bid to prepare before Olympics. It is not about those players being rested or injured," Batra told IANS.
However, defender Harmanpreet Singh, midfielder S.K. Uthappa and strikers Nikkin Thimmiah and Mandeep Singh have made a return to the 18-member national squad.
Karnataka player Nikkin was out of the side due to a hand injury. He even missed the major part of Dabang Mumbai's campaign in the Hockey India League (HIL) which concluded last month.
Uthappa played a key role in Kalinga Lancers's runners-up finish in the HIL and he has been rewarded for his hard work.
Young goalkeeper Akash Anil Chitke has taken Sreejesh's spot as a new entrant, while midfielder Harjeet Singh, captain of the national Under-21 side, has also got his maiden national call-up, alongwith Surender Singh.
Chitke was declared as the 'Promising Player of the Tournament' at the 5th senior National Championship in 2015.
Centre-half Sardar Singh will captain the side, while senior forward S.V. Sunil is the vice-captain. The squad includes five defenders in the form of Rupinder Pal Singh, Jasjit Singh Kular, Kothajit Singh, Surender Singh and Harmanpreet Singh.
The midfield will be under the leadership of Sardar and he will be assisted by Danish Mujtaba, Chinglensana Singh, Manpreet Singh, S.K. Uthappa and Harjeet Singh.
Sunil, Talwinder Singh, Mandeep Singh, Ramandeep Singh, Nikkin will form India's attack line.
Besides India, defending champions New Zealand, 2012 Olympic bronze medallists Australia, Pakistan, Japan, Canada and hosts Malaysia will also be taking part in the annual tournament.
With the 2016 Rio Olympics coming up a few months down the line, the Sultan Azlan Shah Cup will serve has as a barometre to measure the teams' preparations.
"India has a good record in the Sultan Azlan Shah Cup and we would like to keep it that way," Sardar said.
"Being an Olympic year, this tournament assumes special importance as it will give us an idea where we stand. Playing against good teams like Australia, New Zealand and Pakistan and not to forget hosts Malaysia will give the team critical competition exposure.
"It will be a good opportunity trying out new things and new combinations in the tournament to see if they work," he added.
In preparation for the tournament, the Indian men's team is currently undergoing a training camp that started on March 7 at the SAI Centre in Bengaluru.
"The boys have been working hard as a unified unit and are geared up for the tournament ahead. Azlan Shah will be good testing ground for us right before the Rio Olympics and will be very crucial for the team. We are focused on improving the game technically and implement the right strategies," chief coach Roelant Oltmans said.
Indian have enjoyed a good run in the Sultan Azlan Shah Cup since it started as a biennial tournament in 1983 before becoming an annual affair since 1994.
India have won the prestigious tournament five times in 1985, 1991, 1995, 2009 and 2010, while earning the bronze on six occasions and finished runners-up once in 2008.
However, it won't be easy to counter the likes of Australia, New Zealand, Pakistan and Malaysia. Hosts Malaysia will be eager to make an impact under their new coach Stephen van Huizen.
The round-robin format of the tournament will help the Indian team to get decent amount of competition exposure under its belt. It will also give them an opportunity to gauge the fitness level of the players, since the conditions in Ipoh around this time of the year will be extremely hot and humid. The Indian team has shown considerable improvement in the fitness levels in the past couple of years.
Defenders: Rupinder Pal Singh, Jasjit Singh Kular, Kothajit Singh, Surender Singh, Harmanpreet Singh.
Midfielders: Danish Mujtaba, Chinglensana Singh, Manpreet Singh, Sardar Singh (Captain), S.K. Uthappa, Harjeet Singh.
Forwards: Talwinder Singh, Mandeep Singh, S.V. Sunil (Vice-Captain), Ramandeep Singh, Nikkin Thimmaiah.

Geneva 21 March 2016 (WMO) - The year 2015 made history, with shattered temperature records, ...
CALGARY, Canada, March 21 (UNHCR) - Profoundly deaf, Mohamad al Kawarit did not hear the ...
Johannesburg, Mar.21 (ANI): World number one Novak Djokovic continued his dominant run as he eased ...
Lima - The United Nation's cultural body Unesco has added 20 new sites to its ...
TORONTO, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - Mar 22, 2016) - Rubicon Minerals Corporation (TSX:RMX)(OTC PINK:RBYCF) ("Rubicon" or the ...
Get the latest Toronto Telegraph headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Toronto Telegraph - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved