2015-01~03
http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/foreign-policy/228619-isis-is-not-far-from-china

ISIS is not far from China | TheHill
One hundred fifteen terrorist cells have been eliminated in the past 7 months in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region this year. It has already been confirmed that Xinjiang’s riots are related with some international terrorist organizations. Meanwhile, On July 4th, ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi released a video claiming that the group plans to expand its holy war into Xinjiang.
With the uproar from Xinjiang riots, the situation has become unquestionably more complicated due to the involvement of international terrorist organizations. Even with the ISIS threat close at hand, China has taken a wait-and–see approach.
Many Xinjiang independence extremists are urging the creation of an independent state called East Turkestan. Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region cannot remain stable if Xinjiang independence extremists cooperate with international terrorist organizations. Unfortunately, the richest, strongest and cruelest international terrorist organization, ISIS, has already adopted some Chinese members. Most of them are from Xinjiang. Can’t China help in suppressing ISIS? The maxim of “ mind you own business” which leads its foreign policy needs to be reconsidered.
Chinese government strictly monitors and controls domestic Xinjiang independence extremists. However, China has overlooked those outside of China’s Xinjiang independence extremists. As news reported, a Chinese man fighting for the terror group has already been captured by Iraqi forces. However, China has not tried to find out exactly how many Xinjiang independence extremists are receiving "terrorist training" from Isis.
Chinese intelligence services would benefit for participate in the international fight against Isis. Not only can China receive valuable information through the use of spies, but it could also organize and exchange information with convert operations from other countries. Investigating and finding out more regarding ISIS would BE helpful in suppressing the international terrorist group as well. If each country mutually cooperates, ISIS could effectively be degraded.
Recently, numerous innocent civilians have been slaughtered. Some of them have died from starvation, some of them have died from heat, some of them have died from dehydration. Death from heat occurs every day, every hour, every minute and every second.
Besides medical resources, the Chinese government can help those suffering in other ways. For instance, the Chinese government could provide relief supplies to the refugees by airdrop. The action could save countless refugees. The famous Chinese proverb “When need is highest, help is highest" is especially true in this case.
Most of the major world religions believe both a heaven and hell exist. Today, Iraq and Syria are experiencing hell on earth. Allah spoke truth, but he never advocated blood slaughter. Peace and happiness are not just goals in life for human beings; they are fundamental rights.
ISIS, just like mosquitoes, does not seem like a dangerous threat to many countries including China. However, just like mosquitoes may cause Malaria or death, ISIS is capable of doing the same. In order to keep peace in the world, China is obligated to help suppress ISIS and help refugees in Syria and Iraq. It can also strongly suppress the Xinjiang independence extremists that are cooperating with international terrorist organizations.
Du is a student at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, with a double majoring in English linguistics and teaching Korean as a foreign language. She is a Chinese Muslim.
The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax
The contents of this site are ©2016 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.