2015-01~03
http://metronews.ca/news/canada/1293032/1540-canadians-detained-too-few-stories-being-told-human-rights-groups/

1,540 Canadians detained across the globe, too few stories being told: Human rights groups | Metro News
Please enable JavaScript in your browser and refresh the page
 for an optimal experience.
The Canadian government is paying an “uneven” amount of attention to cases of people detained in foreign countries, human rights groups say, decrying a lack of policies on responding to calls for support.
“It seems arbitrary which cases receive government support and which don’t,” said Alain Roy, director of campaigns at Amnesty International Canada.
The group welcomed the recent release of Canadian journalist Mohamed Fahmy, free on bail from an Egyptian prison and scheduled to return to court Monday for a retrial. But, Amnesty said, Fahmy’s case should be a wakeup call for more action in support of other Canadians believed to be wrongfully detained abroad.
Of the 1,540 Canadians being held in foreign countries, the majority are in the United States, according to information from the Foreign Affairs department. A spokesperson declined to discuss details of the cases or the government's level of involvement.
Many of the people are likely “prisoners of conscience,” Amnesty spokeswoman Elizabeth Berton-Hunter said.
“They are people who have done nothing wrong, people who are trying to protect their own rights or protecting rights of others,” she said.
While Amnesty launches campaigns on behalf of people, it picks the cases it takes on very carefully. Mostly, initial contact about cases comes from family members of the detained rather than official sources.
The organization has been vocal in Fahmy’s case and that of Burlington’s Huseyin Celil, a human rights activist for China’s minority Uighurs who was jailed for life in 2006 on terrorism charges.
Another active campaign calls for the release of Saeed Malekpour, a Canadian permanent resident sentenced to life in Iran for charges related to his work in computer programming.
But, those are just a few of the many who need a voice, Amnesty says, and it’s Ottawa’s job to make sure more stories are heard.
“The government needs to have clear policies determining the kind of support that should be provided to Canadians in trouble overseas,” Roy said.
Information from the Foreign Affairs department indicates that the government cannot interfere in the judicial affairs of another country nor seek preferential treatment for a Canadian imprisoned abroad. It can only provide basic assistance such as notifying family and facilitating communications. All legal and financial burden falls to the shoulders of the detainee’s family.
Australia’s prime minister, for example, reportedly spoke with Egypt’s president on several occasions, leading to the release of Peter Greste, the journalist who was imprisoned with Fahmy. Stephen Harper sent letters on Fahmy's behalf, but the government has declined to say when they were sent or release details.
For Sukanya Pillay, executive director of the Canadian Civil Liberties Association, the big concern “is about people we have no information about.”
“There’s evidence that when Canadians take action in support of someone unlawfully detained abroad, their voice carries weight,” she said. “Each situation is unique, and sometimes quiet diplomacy also works.”


 
 A Fowl Affair: Seniors pen play about being served too much chicken, get menu changed
 



 
 A glass of wine a day won't keep the doctor at bay, finds B.C. study
 



 
 Canadians flock to Cuba ahead of expected influx of American travellers
 



 
 Is your coat made of cat fur? It's harder to find out than you think
 


 Edmonton doctor calls for plain language on pedestrian deaths


 A glass of wine a day won't keep the doctor at bay, finds B.C. studycomments


 Video shows aftermath of Brussels airport blasts; at least 30 killed in attacks


 Woman says she was made to feel 'like a liar' over closed Halifax sexual assault case
