2015-01~03
http://www.japanherald.com/index.php/sid/229820621

Villagers Appeal for Release of Jailed, Elderly Uyghur Religious Scholar - Japan Herald
Residents of a county in northwest China's restive Xinjiang region have petitioned local authorities for the release of an elderly religious scholar whose health has declined since he was jailed six years ago for "illegal religious teaching activities" and "murdering a student," sources said.
Ablimit Qari Hajim, 85, the former imam, or Muslim religious leader, of the Yurchi township mosque in Kelpin county (Keping in Chinese), Aksu prefecture (Akesu in Chinese), is serving a 17-year sentence in a prison near the regional capital Urumqi, according to current and former residents of Yoqirisu village, where the scholar resided.
Kelpin county residents, including Hajim's relatives and neighbors, signed a petition for his release and submitted it several times to the local police, county government, and autonomous regional government in Urumqi, requesting that the scholar be released because of poor health, they said.
"We all requested that Ablimit Qari Hajim be released to his to home if possible, because he is so old and weak," one of Hajim's neighbors, who requested anonymity for personal security reasons, told RFA's Uyghur Service. "He would perform his jail term at home under the guarantee of the people of Kelpin. However, the authorities refused our application, so [he] is still in prison."
Abdurahman Ozturk, a Kelpin county native and former neighbor of Hajim, who is now an independent journalist and television presenter at Uyghur-language Erk TV in Istanbul, said he heard that Hajim was severely ill and suffering from a psychological disorder.
Hajim is a famous religious person and scholar, not only in Kelpin county, but also the rest of Aksu prefecture, including neighboring counties, the sources said.
In the late 1990s, a teenager from a neighboring county, whom Hajim taught along with other students in his home in the mountainous area of Kelpin county to avoid attracting the authorities' attention, suddenly died in an accident, the unnamed woman said.
The deceased boy's parents and local residents had asked Hajim to lead a religious ceremony for him.
"But after a dozen years, the authorities detained Ablimit Qari Hajim and accused him of being a murderer," the woman said.
Tuyghun Abduweli, a Uyghur writer from Kelpin county who lives in exile in Canada, said he used to reside in a village neighboring Yoqirisu and knew Hajim well.
"The? main reason for his arrest was his outstanding reputation and religious influence among the people of Kelpin," he said. "The authorities really feared his existence, and they believed that Ablimit Qari Hajim's influences among the local Uyghurs would be a threat to the government."
Hajim originally had been detained in Aksu prison, but was moved to another facility outside Urumqi, the unnamed woman said.
Hajim's relatives, who visit him in jail every three to six months, indicated that he was in poor health and suffering from mental illness, she said.
"They said that nowadays Ablimit Qari Hajim's health condition is getting worse day by day, and sometimes he doesn't even recognize his sons or grandsons,' she said.
Hajim's eldest son, Memet Qari, was also arrested on charges of "illegal religious teaching activities along with his father and has served six years of a life sentence in a prison near Urumqi, current and former residents of Yoqirisu village said.
"We were surprised by his [Hajim's] and his son's arrests, because he [Hajim] is one of the most respected and knowledgeable people in Kelpin county," the woman said. "He was also a member of the county's People's Political Consultative Committee."
The committee is a political advisory body in China, consisting of delegates from a range of political parties and organizations as well as independent members. ?
Since the 1980s, Hajim had taught religious studies to many young people, some of whom now live in exile in Turkey and European countries, and advised locals about familial and personal matters, current and former residents of Yoqirisu village said.
Eysa Qarim, a former student who now lives in exile in Netherlands, said when he studied under Hajim during the late 1980s, the Chinese authorities had enacted a reform and open door policy, which permitted an atmosphere of religious tolerance in Xinjiang, allowing such private religious schools to operate.
But during the late 1990s, the authorities began to strictly control religious figures and private religious schools, he said.
"As a young student learning the Muslim religion, I also was forced go to abroad for personal safety reasons," he said. "Just after my departure from my hometown, I heard that master Ablimit Qari Hajim was arrested. I was miserable when I heard this news. It was a big loss for our people and our hometown."
The minority Turkic-speaking Uyghurs in Xinjiang face pervasive ethnic discrimination, religious repression, and cultural suppression by China's communist government in the name of the fight against
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Forty percent of India's population may not have drinking water by 2030, if the water crisis in country is not met seriously, a study has warned.
With the country facing a grave water crisis and lack of water conservation, the availability of potable water and ground water has decreased over the years which would result in severe situation in the country after a decade, said an activist for water conservation on the eve of World Water Day (March 22) observed to create awareness about water related issues and for action to deal with the global water crisis.
"By 2030, 40 percent of the total population in the country will not have drinking water if situation remains same," Jal Jan Jodo Abhiyan's national convenor Sanjay Singh told IANS, quoting a research published recently by the 2030 Water Resource Group (WRG).
"The ground water is depleting, the small tributaries have dried up to 90 percent and the flow of rivers has reduced by 60-65 percent. This will lead to a severe situation in the coming years reducing water availability to a great extent," he added.
He also said that the per capita demand has increased whereas the availability is very less. In fact, a report on ground water published by PRS Legislative Research --a non-governmental organisation -- says: "Due to increasing population, the national per capita annual availability of water has reduced by 15 percent from 2001 to 2011."
It also said that India uses almost twice the amount of water to grow crops as compared to China and the US.
"The gap between the availability and demand is increasing at a greater pace. Cities like Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai and other metropolitan cities consume water in huge quantities due to changed lifestyle of people. This must be looked into," Singh told IANS.
He also said that the efforts done by the government were not enough to meet the crisis.
South Asia Network on Dam, Rivers and People coordinator Himanshu Thakkar says water crisis in the country is multidimensional and is aggravating fast because of various factors including mismanagement of the resource.
He anticipates big problems based on the water crisis looming large in the country, if the situation continues.
"Ground water is the lifeline of the country which is depleting very fast. Water is part of ecological system as every living thing on earth needs water so if not dealt with properly the perennial water crisis may lead to more serious problems like food crisis, livelihood crisis, social conflicts," Thakkar told IANS.
He said that social conflicts based on water crisis have already started in the country. Tension between Haryana and Punjab over Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal project and conflicts in Marathwada region of Maharashtra over water are the latest examples.
"In terms of water crisis in India things have now come to such a pass that a district collector in Latur district in Maharashtra had to implement section 144 to avoid clashes between people due to water crisis," Thakkar told IANS.
Blaming the government in general being the major contributor towards the crisis, Thakkar said the government machinery was solely responsible for failing in water management.
"Government is responsible for water crisis in terms of mismanagement. The government does not involve people in the management of water. This year is a drought year so the problem has increased manifold but the efforts of the government does not seem sufficient to deal with the crisis," he said.
About the water crisis in Delhi, he said that mismanagement on part of governments can be seen easily as in February, Jat protesters took over Munak canal in Haryana stopping water supply to the national capital and it took over a fortnight to deal with the consequences.
Ruwa Shah can be contacted at ruwa.s@ians.in and Ashish Mishra can be contacted at ashish.m@ians.in)

Washington D.C., Mar. 22 (ANI): Kesha and her lawyer lashed out at the judge, who ...
Singapore / Tokyo, Mar.21 (ANI): Subway is the most important transport system in Singapore with ...
Amposta - Thirteen people were killed and 44 injured on Sunday when a bus carrying ...
Monday, 21 March -- The Director-General, Irina Bokova, inaugurated the new premises of the Division ...
New York, March 22 (IANS) Singer Kesha has filed an appeal against a New York ...
Get the latest Japan Herald headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Japan Herald - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved