2015-01~03
http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2015-01/14/content_19312409.htm

10 Turks detained for helping terror suspects fleeing China - China - Chinadaily.com.cn
SWAT police officers armed with guns stand guard at the square of the Shanghai Railway Station in Shanghai, China, 14 May 2014. [Photo/IC]
According to the Beijing-based Global Times newspaper, 11 other people, including 9 terror suspects from Xinjiang, were also been taken into custody in November 2014.
The newspaper says the 10 Turkish detainees are accused of providing fake Turkish passports for terror suspects. The alleged terrorists were trying to leave China illegally through Shanghai Pudong Airport. Each of them had paid 60 thousand yuan for an illegal passport.
Audio and video materials related to terrorism were found among the suspects who were trying to leave China, according to the report.
The Global Times report says the 10 Turkish nationals have been officially arrested on charges of making arrangements for others to illegally cross national borders.
According to Chinese law, the crime carries a sentence of 2 to 7 years in prison. If there are aggravating circumstances, those convicted could be sentenced to 7 years to life in prison.
Meanwhile, authorities in Xinjiang have announced that people who buy fireworks and firecrackers for Chinese New Year will have to register using their ID cards.
A local official says this is in part to prevent terrorists from obtaining raw materials to make explosive devices.
Firework retail outlets will need to record the type and quantity of products purchased by each customer.
Earlier this week, police in Shule County in Xinjiang shot dead six attackers who attempted to detonate explosive devices attached to their bodies.
In today's trending, beer drinking competition has contestants drinking from basins, bland watermelon leads to police case, raising money for sick child with suanlafen and heat drives monkeys to disturb residents.

 Copyright 1995 - 

 . All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form. Note: Browsers with 1024*768 or higher resolution are suggested for this site.

 License for publishing multimedia online 0108263             Registration Number: 130349       
