2015-01~03
http://www.singaporestar.com/index.php/sid/229189453

Kyrgyz Border Guards Detain Three Who Crossed From China - Singapore Star
BISHKEK -- Kyrgyz border guards have detained three unidentified men they say entered the country illegally from China.
The State Border Guard Service said on January 8 that the men have been apprehended near the border on January 7.
The men had no identification documents but said they were natives of China's Xinjiang region, according to the border service.
It said they confiscated six knives, a map of the area, some Chinese cash, food, and medicine from the men.
Last January, eleven men from Xinjiang who were armed with knives killed a Kyrgyz forest ranger after crossing the border and were later killed by Kyrgyz security forces.
Along with Uyghurs, Xinjiang has indigenous populations of ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz and Tajiks who live mainly in districts bordering those three Central Asian countries.
China has cracked down on Muslim Uyghurs in recent years.
Copyright (c) 2014. RFE/RL, Inc. Republished with the permission of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 1201 Connecticut Ave NW, Ste 400, Washington DC 20036
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) The government on Monday approved 15 FDI proposals worth Rs.7,261.60 crore, based on the recommendations of Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB).
The approved proposals were from Sun Life Financial (India) Insurance Investments, Nippon Life Insurance Compnay, Tata AIA Life Insurance Company and others.
Of the approved proposals, the highest proposal emerged from Nippon Life Insurance Company at Rs.2,265.5 crore, followed by Tata AIA Life Insurance Company at Rs.2,055 crore and Sun Life Financial (India) Insurance Investments' Rs.1,664 crore.
Another proposal amounting to Rs.6,885 crore has been recommended to be approved by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) while 10 proposals coming from Apollo Hospitals Enterprises, Lupin and others have been rejected.
In the list of eight deferred proposals, Whirlpool Asia, Bupa Singapore and RMS Arc Insurance Borkers featured while Equitas Holdings withdrew its application.

Singapore / Tokyo, Mar.21 (ANI): Subway is the most important transport system in Singapore with ...
Singapore - Two maintenance staff working on elevated tracks in Singapore's mass transit system were ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) The government on Monday approved 15 FDI proposals worth Rs.7,261.60 ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Following his maiden win in the Indian Open last weekend, ...
SINGAPORE: Two maintenance staff of Singapore’s MRT?operator SMRT have been killed after a track accident ...
Get the latest Singapore Star headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Singapore Star - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved