2015-01~03
http://www.neurope.eu/article/questions-over-uyghur-problem

Questions over the Uyghur problem
The Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in northwest China is of particular importance since it is rich in oil and natural resources. It is also an important component of the New Silk Road.
But Xinjiang has a turbulent history and the current state of unrest and instability is making for a very critical present.  This is due to how the Chinese side is handling the Uyghurs’ reaction to state discrimination.
The Uyghurs are an ethnic Turkish group that has been living in the region for centuries. They believe in a moderate form of Islam. According to the 2010 population census, they number 10 million. 
For centuries, Xinjiang has been a victim of the Sino-Russian confrontation in the area. Efforts to found a national state have been unsuccessful since the two East Turkestan Republics (1933-4 and 1944-49) had a very short lifespan. In 1949, the land of the Uyghurs came under the control of Communist China and was renamed Xinjiang, which means ‘New Frontier’.
China applied a policy aiming at the demographic alteration of the region by sending a huge Chinese Han population to Xinjiang.
The Uyghurs were seen as a problem from the very beginning since they are considered non-Chinese and are Muslims (despite the fact that the Chinese Muslims Hui have always enjoyed religious freedom) and they also have a strong sense of nation belonging.
In those years, the Uyghurs faced different kinds of discrimination mainly in the economic sector. But today their situation has radically changed.
China wants to end any local ethnic and religious diversity and is pursuing an assimilation policy. The Uyghurs live under a quasi total discriminatory environment that includes religious restrictions, economic exclusion, imprisonment and absolute prohibition of any reaction and in many cases death.
As regards religion, the regime imposes new dress codes that prohibit women from wearing a veil and men from growing a beard. Students at university and workers in factories are also not allowed to fast for Ramadan. Even a state-approved version of the Quran is the only one allowed. The Uyghurs tried to react, but the regime responded by sending in forces to keep the order. In the 2009 riots, many Uyghurs were shot dead and until today any demonstration – even a peaceful one – can be considered by the Chinese state as an act of terrorism and the demonstrators could be shot. 
In some cases, there were two acts of terrorism committed by Uyghurs that claimed victims among the Chinese population. But it would be a mistake to consider the Uyghur nation in Xinjiang to be responsible for this.
As a solution to their everyday problems, many Uyghurs try to escape – some to Central and South Asia and others to Turkey. 
But the Chinese government doesn’t stop to persecute them and asks foreign governments to extradite them back to China.
The latest argument used by the Chinese government is that a large number of Uyghurs is aligned with the Salafist circles and that there are about three hundred young Uyghurs fighting alongside Islamic State.
Of course it cannot be denied that many Uyghurs are fighting with IS and that Islamic radicalism is advancing in Xinjiang, but it must be acknowledged that this is not a general tendency and that it is the Chinese state that is responsible for this situation. 
It is also important to consider that China, following a policy of discrimination, media censorship and terrorism against the Uyghur community, has not resolved any of the problems. China’s violent reaction to any foreign concern for the fate of Uyghurs also does not help solve the problem.
Following this policy, the Uyghur problem has been upgraded into a Question. 
The Uyghur Question will then become an international question of the same level as the Irish, Basque or Kurdish questions.
This means there will be more instability and more concern over the economic and investment environment.
Modern and democratic nations apply different methods than those used by the Chinese. Instead of assimilation, the participation and integration, as well as minority rights can minimise ethnic tensions.
China should study these cases and maybe learn from them. 