2015-01~03
http://www.energyglobal.com/upstream/drilling-and-production/08012015/Roxi-announces-proposed-sale-of-the-Galaz-Contract-Area-in-central-Kazakhstan/

Roxi announces proposed sale of the Galaz Contract Area in central Kazakhstan

Magazines Hydrocarbon Engineering LNG Industry
Oilfield Technology
World Coal World Pipelines World Cement


Sign in | Subscribe | 
 Contact us | Newsletter
Roxi, the Central Asian oil and gas company with a focus on Kazakhstan, is pleased to update the market with news of the Galaz Contract Area in which it holds an interest of 34.22%.
Roxi notes the announcement made by Xinjiang Zhundong Petroleum Technology Co., a company listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange in China, in connection with the potential acquisition of 100% of the Galaz Contract Area for an aggregate consideration of up to US$100 million including the assumption of debt and for which it has been granted an exclusivity period to 31 January 2015.
Roxi is pleased to confirm that although there is no certainty that a sale will be concluded on the terms disclosed, it has entered into a non-binding heads of terms and is working with Xinjiang Zhundong and the other shareholders in Galaz to complete the sale of Galaz on the terms disclosed below and expects to make a further announcement once all the relevant legally binding agreements have been entered into.
Xinjiang Zhundong announced that it is leading a consortium seeking to acquire 100% of the equity and associated debt of Galaz by the acquisition of the Kazakh entity Galaz & Co LLP that holds the licence for the Galaz Contract Area for an aggregate consideration of no more than US$100 million.
The proposal is subject to due diligence and on the signing of binding documentation and would be conditional on approval of both Kazakh and Chinese regulatory authorities.
Of the US$100 million disclosed approximately US$50.4 million relates to the equity of Galaz & Co LLP, in which Roxi has a 34.22% interest and approximately US$49.6 million relates to the assumption of shareholder loans owed by Galaz & Co LLP, of which approximately US$11.3 million is owed to Roxi.
In aggregate the share of the US$100 million disclosed attributable to Roxi is expected to be some US$28 million.
Under the terms of the 2008 acquisition of 59% of Eragon Petroleum PLC from Baverstock GmbH, Roxi has an obligation to carry Baverstock for the first US$100 million of costs on the Eragon assets (BNG, Galaz & Munaily). This obligation has almost been fulfilled. Therefore the proceeds attributable to Baverstock, which would be an additional US$12 million, would also be available for the development of the BNG Contract Area.
Including the contribution from Baverstock the proposed proceeds from the sale of Galaz on the terms announced by Xinjiang Zhundong would fund at least four deep wells at BNG.
The Galaz block is located in the Kyzylorda Oblast in central Kazakhstan. The Contract Area was extended on 10 January 2011 to 179 km2 and now includes significant exploration upside on the east side of the Karatau fault system, as well as the NW Konys development.
Pilot production commenced on 19 January 2012 following approval of the NW Konys Pilot Production Plan from the Ministry of Oil and Gas, with emissions and flaring permits received from the relevant authorities.
Since 2008, 17 wells have been drilled at Galaz, a significant number of which are or indicate they will be commercial. Wells NK-3, NK-5, NK-7, NK-8, and NK-9 are on extended test producing in aggregate 1000 bop/d on average. Additionally, Wells NK-4, NK6, NK-12 and NK-31 are being prepared to commence test production.
Roxi has an effective 34.22% interest in Galaz, which runs on an exploration basis until 14 May 2016. The other principal shareholders in Galaz are LGI, the Korean Multinational (40%) and Baverstock, (23.78%).
Clive Carver, Chairman commented:"For some time we have made it clear that while we are very pleased with our investment at Galaz we view the opportunities at our flagship BNG asset to be greater. The proposed sale our interest in Galaz on the terms disclosed would fund the bulk of what we have planned this year at BNG."

 Roxi has updated the market on its flagship BNG asset and the Deep Well NK-31 at Galaz. 



 Roxi has announced news of a licence extension and of operational progress at its Galaz asset.


 Central Asian oil and gas company Roxi has announced an oil and discovery at its flagship BNG asset in Kazakhstan.


 Erlan Idrissov, Foreign Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan introduces EXPO 17 in Kazakhstan and outlines the nation’s commitment to alternative and renewable energy sources.


 Palladian Publications publishes five international B2B magazines targeted specifically
 at the global energy sector. Each title provides its subscribers with a unique industry
 insight via a combination of news, reviews, comments, analysis, regional reports,
 case studies, technical articles and more. Magazines include Oilfield Technology,
 World Coal, Hydrocarbon Engineering, World Pipelines and LNG Industry.

Copyright © Palladian Publications Ltd. All rights reserved | Tel: +44 (0)1252 718 999 | Email: enquiries@energyglobal.com
Would you like to receive Oilfield Technology magazine for FREE?
Every issue includes technical articles, news reports, regional features and much more...
No, I don't want to keep up-to-date with the latest upstream news