2015-01~03
https://en-maktoob.news.yahoo.com/people-chinas-xinjiang-joining-official-132614064.html

People in China's Xinjiang joining IS: Official
Beijing, March 10 (IANS) A top official of China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region said on Tuesday that some people from the northwest province have been joining the Islamic State (IS) terrorist group after crossing the border illegally, the China Daily reported.
"The organisation (IS) has growing international influence and Xinjiang is affected by it. We've busted a terrorist cell in Xinjiang run by those who have returned from fighting with the organisation," Zhang Chunxian, chief of the Communist Party of China in Xinjiang, was quoted as saying.
"Some people in Hotan prefecture in southern Xinjiang have been influenced by the IS," said Eziz Musar, the prefecture's commissioner. "That influence is also felt in other parts of the region."
He added that the internet has been playing a part in fanning hatred and propagating terror.
"Authorities have to put this extremist content on their watch list and enforce the law by accelerating the crackdown on those who spread such illegal information," Eziz said.
The overall situation in Xinjiang remained stable and controllable, said another senior official.
"Violent terror attacks have provoked strong condemnation and opposition in the region," said Shohrat Zakir, chairman of the Xinjiang regional government, at a panel discussion during the ongoing annual session of the National People's Congress.
The Chinese government attributes acts of violence in Xinjiang, an area inhabited by Muslim ethnicities like Uyghurs related to peoples of Central Asia, to Islamic terrorist groups seeking to create an independent East Turkestan in the region.
However, Uyghur groups in exile claim that the clashes were a result of repression by the authorities, who are mostly comprised of China's majority Han ethnicity, against their people.
Hundreds of people have died in ethnic clashes in Xinjiang after tensions aggravated in 2009.
The attacks in Brussels on Tuesday spilled over into Britain's political row over whether to remain in the European Union, with advocates for leaving claiming the bloc's open border policy allowed for the killings to take place. Prime Minister David Cameron has argued that Britain will d be safer if it votes to stay in the bloc in a June 23 referendum that has divided both his party and the electorate. "Brussels, de facto capital of the EU, is also the jihadist capital of Europe.
The picture - known as ‘Bliss’ - was the default computer wallpaper of the Microsoft Windows XP operating system, and if you ever owned a PC over the past few years, then you will have seen it the first time you ever booted it up. The man behind the shot is National Geographic photographer Charles O’Rear, who was taking a drive through the Napa Valley in San Francisco in 1996 to meet up with his girlfriend Daphne - who would later become his wife.
U.S & Canadian citizens making huge monthly salaries after new company goes viral. Experts calling it "The Best Way To Supplement Your Income Since..
Flight FZ981 from Dubai crashed near its destination at Rostov-On-Don airport in Russia on Saturday morning. Miss Sergeeva worked as a beautician in Dubai, where she lived for the past six months. Miss Sergeeva posted an image about four months ago of her flight ticket, saying: “I am going home for one week”.
Hundreds of rabbis either boycotted or stood as Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump began to speak at a pro-Israel conference and walked out to protest his "hate and bigotry" that hold troubling reminders for them of the Holocaust. Obama "may be the worst thing ever to happen to Israel," he said during his 25-minute speech. An Orthodox rabbi in a prayer shawl seated near the front was forced out by security moments after he shouted out once Trump began speaking in the Verizon Center in Washington DC where the conference for the powerful American Israel Public Affairs Committee lobby was held.
A flight attendant who had been selected for random screening at Los Angeles International Airport reportedly fled the terminal, leaving her shoes and 30kg of cocaine, officials said on 21 March. The incident occurred when the flight attendant was sent to a secondary screening area, said Marshal McClain, president of the Los Angles Airport Peace Officers Association. A senior government official told ABC News that the woman was wearing "street clothes" and had approached the "known crew member lane" before being moved by the TSA to an inspection area.
Don't use the internet in the U.S until you've seen the truth about Online ID protection & anonymity CNN calling this "A game changer for all..
At least 20 people have been killed after a rush-hour explosion at a metro station close to EU buildings in Brussels. Footage of the blast at Maalbeek station showed black smoke pouring from the entrance, with people being moved on stretchers and victims seen with facial injuries. Passengers were evacuated from trains in the tunnels around Maalbeek and led along tracks to other stations.
The young mother who has lost her husband, two children, mother and sister has said her surviving baby is her reason to live.
Apple Vice President Gregory Joswiak introduces the new iPhone SE during a media event at Apple headquarters in Cupertino, California on March 21, 2016
United States drivers are surprised that they never knew this. If you have less than 3 tickets in the past 3 years, you better read this...
BT must "significantly" cut prices charged for high-speed lines through its Openreach arm and improve business services under detailed plans outlined by the communications watchdog.
A murder probe has been launched after a woman's body was found at a village property.
The cast and crew of EastEnders donned pretend crowns as they welcomed Barbara Windsor back to the show - one day before she was made a dame by the Queen.
Don't buy a new PC or call a repair company before reading this. Simple "3 click Fix" will have your computer running like new again.
Under-pressure retailer Sports Direct saw its shares tumble after founder Mike Ashley admitted the group was "in trouble" and would see profits fall this year.
By Liz Hampton and Devika Krishna Kumar HOUSTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - A dreaded scenario for U.S. oil bulls might just be becoming a reality. Some U.S. shale oil producers, including Oasis Petroleum and Pioneer Natural Resources Co , are activating drilled but uncompleted wells (DUCs) in a reversal in strategy that threatens to bring more crude to a saturated market and dampen any sustained rebound in prices. When oil prices started their long slide in mid-2014, many producers kept drilling wells, but halted expensive fracking work that brings them online, waiting for prices to bounce back.
The Scottish Ambulance Service declared the crash - which happened at around 2.15pm close to the Rowan Tree Restaurant - a "major incident". The collision, on a stretch of road between Ardrossan and Seamill, involved a service 585 bus from Greenock to Ayr operated by the Stagecoach group.
If you are not eating these 16 secret weapons yet, you should be. Click here to see the top 16 disease-fighting foods.
Belgian authorities urged the media to refrain from reporting on the probe into triple bomb attacks in Brussels Tuesday that killed at least 26 after some said raids were under way in the city.
Sure Cruise looks JUST LIKE her famous mother Katie Holmes as the two watch basketball together this weekend. Who knew these gals were so into March Madness.
Fortunately, it wasn’t poisonous. So much for driving all the snakes out of Ireland…
Homeowners who have not missed a payment in 3 years are in for a big surprise...
Barely three months after getting the green light to take off, Malaysia's first Syariah-compliant airline Rayani Air has flown into turbulence. It is now under investigation by Malaysia's Transport Ministry for issuing handwritten boarding passes. Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai told reporters that having handwritten boarding passes could be a potential security threat.
Hulk Hogan has been awarded a further $25m (£17.3m) in punitive damages just days after Gawker Media was ordered to pay $115m (£79.5m) for posting a sex tape of the celebrity wrestler online. A Florida jury ordered Gawker to pay Hogan an additional $15m (£10.4m) in punitive damages, while Gawker publisher Nick Denton was slapped with $10m (£6.9m) in damages. Hogan was awarded $115m (£79.5m) last week after a Florida jury found Gawker violated his privacy by publishing a video of him having sex with his former best friend's wife in 2012.
Davitt Walsh swam into Buncrana harbour in County Donegal on Sunday night in an attempt to rescue six people trapped in an Audi Q7 which plummeted off a slipway. He said the infant's father, Sean McGrotty, 46, passed the baby through the smashed driver's side window just moments before the vehicle sank. Mr McGrotty died in the car alongside his two sons Mark, 12, and Evan, eight, his mother-in-law Ruth Daniels, 57, and her daughter Jodie Lee Daniels, 14.
Browse pics and profiles for free! Someone you can love is nearby.
By MacDonald Dzirutwe HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe's plan to win back international funding by paying compensation to white farmers forced off their land faces a major snag: the black farmers expected to stump up the cash say they don't have it. "Most of the farmers face viability issues, the government will have to look at other ways of raising money," he added.
The San Antonio Spurs delivered perhaps the first eye-opening win over the Golden State Warriors this season on Saturday night. The Spurs won ugly, beating the Warriors and marking the first loss they have had to another top-five team this year. While it's foolish to draw concrete conclusions from one game, the Spurs seemed to once again demonstrate the one formula for beating the Warriors: muck it up.
South West Trains staff are the latest to get on board the ‘Boaty McBoatface’ bandwagon with this train name, spotted at Waterloo station this morning. 
Know these warning signs. The earlier the better. You won't believe warning sign #7.
The Duchess of Cambridge has revealed the present she gave the Queen for Christmas when she first stayed at Sandringham over the festive period - a jar of home-made chutney.
Police investigating the disappearance of 15-year-old Paige Doherty say they have found a body. Police Scotland say the body, found in a wooded area of the town, has not been formally identified. Friends and family launched a missing persons appeal after she failed to turn up at the hairdressers where she worked.
Holly Willoughby is stunned by two identical twins who share EVERYTHING:
Did your school make the cut? See how America's top universities stack up in Forbes Top 50 Colleges of 2015.
A North Korean consular official in China has killed two people in a car crash, China's Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday, reporting the accident shortly after China came out in support of sanctions against its ally over its nuclear programme. South Korea's Yonhap news agency earlier reported the North Korean official was driving drunk, and the accident took place after he had left an event celebrating North Korea's launch of a long-range rocket on Feb. 7. China's Foreign Ministry did not mention those details in a statement to Reuters but said the official's vehicle hit a taxi in the city of Dandong, near the North Korean border, early on Feb. 10, killing the driver and a passenger.
By Alastair Macdonald BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Amid all the arguments about the feasibility, legality and morality of the European Union's migrant deal with Turkey, one positive result, say EU officials and diplomats, is that at least it hasn't wrecked the Cyprus peace process. The migrant deal is intended to halt illegal migration flows to Europe in return for financial and political rewards for Ankara. European Council head Donald Tusk, who chaired Friday's EU-Turkey summit, said a compromise accepted by Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu to avoid a Cypriot veto on the migrant deal was a "very promising signal for the future".
Just type in a Name and select a State.. Then brace yourself for what you might find on you or anyone else!
Footballer Ched Evans's conviction for raping a 19-year-old woman is to be reviewed by leading judges on Tuesday.
By Barani Krishnan NEW YORK (Reuters) - Oil prices rose about 1 percent on Monday after data showed crude inventories at the Cushing, Oklahoma delivery hub for U.S. futures fell for the first time since January, and ahead of the expiration of the U.S. front-month contract. Oil's upside, however, was limited by concerns that U.S. energy companies could ramp up drilling again after a two-month long recovery in crude prices, analysts said. Brent crude futures for May delivery , the front-month, settled up 34 cents, or 0.8 percent, at $41.54 (28.8 pounds) a barrel.
It is hoped to be used for surveillance, communications and even passenger travel.
Homeowners are in for a big surprise in 2016. If you own a home and owe less than $625,000 then you need to read this while there's still time.
British Airways (BA) is all set to change its economy fare structure. The move is aimed to make BA's fares simpler and more attractive against competitors like easyJet. It is also aimed at giving more benefits to its economy passengers who decide to pay for their check- in luggage as they would be able to change tickets without paying an extra fee, under the new structure. This is a step forward from the previous two-type fare structure which was more complex and included the options of hand baggage only or checked bag.
By mid-morning, Lobsang's leather cowboy hat is askew, his black robes dishevelled, and his breath stinks of booze. Once a nomad herder roaming the high Tibetan plateau, instead he stumbles around his sparse new concrete house.
This startup features big names like Coach, SmashBox, and Kate Spade - and unlike Amazon, Gilt or HauteLook it's fast, fun and really exciting.
Serge Dassault is France's fourth wealthiest person, with a net worth estimated at 13.6 billion euros ($15.3 billion) last year by Forbes magazine
In the morning he woke early to see the spectacular sunrise over the distant Himalayan mountains.
Dutch police stepped up security patrols at airports and tightened checks at borders after Tuesday's attacks in neighbouring Belgium, the security agency said. Travellers passing through Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport reported delays and a heavy police presence. Security agencies declined to give details of any further measures taken, but maintained the national threat level at "substantial", one notch below the highest.
These 16 Cancer causing foods really should be banned. Food #13 could be the biggest cancer causing food, stop eating it now!
Stranded passengers queue at ANA counters on the departures level of Tokyo's Haneda Airport on March 22, 2016
Goldman Sachs will takeover of the online deposit platform of GE Capital
This amazing sequence of photos were captured by guide and photographer Paul Goldstein from Kicheche Camps.
Survey suggests 25 to 34-year-olds are finding increasingly harder to buy a house.
Pop star Kesha is reportedly appealing a judge's decision that she must stay in a contract with a producer she has accused of sexually assaulting her, with her lawyer comparing it to "slavery". The singer was told by New York Supreme Court Justice Shirley Kornreich last month that she is not allowed to leave her contract with Sony Music and Dr Luke . Dr Luke, real name Lukasz Gottwald, denies the accusations.
British sports car maker TVR is to make its new generation of vehicles in South Wales, creating 150 jobs. It is the second luxury car maker to announce a major investment in Wales in recent weeks after Aston Martin said it was to open a new production facility  in the Vale of Glamorgan. Production for the TVR is to begin in  Ebbw Vale next year with four new models being brought to the market over the next 10 years.
Renowned investors David and Tom Gardner are scheduled to reveal their next great stock ideas. It pays to listen when these guys give out stock tips.
Madonna and ex-husband Guy Ritchie should try to settle a trans-Atlantic legal dispute over the future of their 15-year-old son Rocco and focus on enjoying what is left of his "precious" childhood, a High Court judge in London has said.
Actress and voice of Judy Hopps Ginnifer Goodwin attends the Disney Premiere of Zootopia in Hollywood, California on February 17, 2016
One Chinese company has found a way to bust its emloyees stress: let them bring their pets to work. 
These 20 Scenes Caught On Google Street View Will Drop Your Jaw!!
When Brandy Pounds swam in central Florida's Crystal River earlier this month, she came so close to an endangered manatee that she could feel the sea cow's breath tickling her toes.
This is the terrifying moment a storm ripped a huge metal roof off the top of a large building.
Zayn Malik has already put everything out there in his new solo music, and now he’s holding nothing back about his time as a member of one direction. The singer revealed everything he could not do as a One D bandmate.
Simplify the process of revealing personal information that may be beyond what can be found by Googling. Try searching someone you know or yourself.
Bangladesh confirmed on Tuesday its first case of the Zika virus in an old sample of blood from a 67-year old man who had not been overseas, health ministry officials said. The man lives in southeastern port city of Chittagong and was well, junior health minister Zahid Maleque told a news conference. Mahmudur Rahman, director of the ministry's Institute of Epidemiology, Disease Control and Research, said the man had never travelled outside Bangladesh.
The iPad Pro now has a smaller sibling – one that comes with a more recognisable 9.7-inches on the display.
Chadian teenager Zouhoura, whose gang-rape by young men from well-to-do families sparked unprecedented mass protests in her country, says she wants justice for herself and for "all women" who have long suffered in silence.
The highest rated cash back card just upped the ante by offering up to 10% cash back and a $350 bonus. This offer won't last long, though.
People walk past kiosks in an underground passage in Moscow on November 30, 2015
Spanish investigators were on Monday attempting to establish the cause of a weekend coach crash that killed 13 foreign students, all young women and most of them from Italy.
Leading streaming service Spotify says it has reached 30 million paying subscribers
This new military grade laser is unbelievably powerful, and can be seen from 1/2 mile away! These are selling out extremely fast though, grab one now.
Kim Kardashian stuns in sequins just 3 months after giving birth to her second child!
Royal Bank of Scotland has made a final payment to Britain's finance ministry to cancel an arrangement that gives the government priority over dividends. The bank has paid a 1.2 billion pound fee to the Treasury to terminate the dividend access share (DAS), which was put in place after its 45.8 billion pound government rescue during the 2007-09 financial crisis. The payment is a key step in the process of returning RBS to full private ownership, making the stock more attractive to investors.
George Osborne has confirmed disability benefit cuts will not go ahead as he faced down MPs in Parliament for the first time since his Budget unravelled. The Chancellor admitted he had made a mistake by including plans for £4.4bn of cuts to the Personal Independence Payments in his Budget but said he had listened and they would now be dropped. And he added that the Government had "no further plans to make welfare savings", which would now leave a multibillion-pound hole in Mr Osborne's pledge to run a surplus of £10bn by 2019/20.
As Donald Trump is Making His Run To The WhiteHouse, We Discovered 20 Fascinating Facts You Need To Know About Him!
A David Bowie mural, which became a shrine for fans after his death, is to be listed by a London council to make sure it remains protected. Thousands of people left flowers or gifts in front of the artwork in Brixton following the Starman singer's death in New York on 10 January. Bowie was born in Brixton and now Lambeth Council has announced it is making plans for a more permanent memorial to the artist.