2015-01~03
http://www.azerbaijannews.net/index.php/sid/231332905

Azerbaijan News - Police Raids Yield No Clues About Kidnapped Uyghur Village Police Chief


Imin Memtimin, 41, who has played an active role in police operations in Sadiqawat village of Baghchi township in Hotan county, was kidnapped by unknown men from his home on the morning of March 9.


Police have been conducting raids of homes in the village in hopes of determining the identities of the kidnappers and finding Memtimin, who served as a police officer from 2010 to 2012 and was later promoted to Sadiqawat's security chief. ?


"The investigation teams from the county and prefectural levels have been stationed in the village," a police officer at the Baghchi township police station told RFA's Uyghur Service.


Hotan (Hetian in Chinese) prefecture in southwestern part of Xinjiang has been rife with stabbing and shooting incidents between ethnic, mostly Muslim Uyghurs and Chinese security forces, with attacks coming amid a string of assaults and bombings across the region, formally called the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.


Adil Ismayil, deputy chief of Hotan country's Public Security Department, who is leading an investigation team of seven officers in conducting the raids, told RFA that the operation is still under way in the prefecture, but his authority was limited in terms of disclosing information about the case.


Four kidnappers wearing black masks over their faces and carrying sticks entered Memtimin's house at 2 a.m. on March 9, said Memtimin Tursuntohti, a police officer in Sadiqawat village.


The kidnappers, who may also have had knives, told Memtimin to be silent and come with them, he said.


"They allowed him to wear his clothes, then took him without touching anything in the house," he said. "They pushed his wife away while she was asking, 'Who you are? Where are you taking him to?'"


At first, Memtimin's wife thought that police were taking away her husband for presumably doing something wrong at work, but she became aware that the men were kidnappers when she saw the sticks in their hands instead of guns, Tursuntohti said.


The kidnappers told Memtimin's wife, who later relayed the information to police, to take care of herself and her children, but she fainted from the scare, Tursuntohti said.


"According this information, we know that the kidnappers were Uyghur, but still we don't know further information about their identities," he said, adding that the prefectural-level investigation team might know more about the incident because they came to the scene with technical equipment.


"So far, we've interrogated more than 1,000 people and detained more than 200 as suspects," in Sadiqawat village, Tursuntohti said, adding that he did not know how many people had been detained in other villages and counties. ?


"It is clear for me that the whereabouts of our security chief Imin Memtimin are still unknown," he said.


Azat Mijit, chief of Sadiqawat village, said the village had remained free of any violent incidents, although some residents had heard of such incidents occurring elsewhere.


"That is why we are in a weak position in terms of collaborating with the police investigation," he said. "No home has been skipped during the raids in my village, but still we have no valuable information about the kidnappers and the whereabouts of the security chief."


Mijit said it was difficult for authorities higher up to keep news of the incident quiet so as not to encourage terrorists or scare off Han Chinese who live in the area.


"But they have been forced to disclose the incident given the circumstances of the investigation," he said.




Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Agra, March 21 (IANS) Five students of the Central Hindi Institute here accused of eating beef have been identified but officials denied the charges saying they were now on a holiday. The alleged ...
BISHKEK -- Kyrgyzstan says Turkey has extradited a man suspected of attacking a well-known Kyrgyz theologian in November. The Interior Ministry said on March 21 that the suspect, Alibek Tilek-Uulu, ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Experienced striker Sunil Chhetri has been ruled out of the Indian football squad for the forthcoming World Cup qualifier against Iran due to an injury. Chhetri, who ...
RAS AL-KHAIMAH, 22nd March 2016 (WAM) --- H.H. Sheikh Saud bin Saqr Al Qasimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Ras al-Khaimah, today at his palace in Saqr bin Mohamed City, received Ambassador ...
China's plans to create a new Central Asian security bloc have raised concerns in Moscow that Russia is declining geopolitically in Central Asia and may now be competing with China. General Fang ...
Nerves on the Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan cooled somewhat on March 21 with news that both sides agreed to draw back their forces from a disputed area. Authorities in Kyrgyzstan, who have been the only ...
Exit polls in Kazakhstan have provided a preliminary confirmation of widely expected results in the March 20 parliamentary elections, showing the ruling Nur Otan party winning around 82 percent of ...
In his latest endeavor to gin up some or any foreign investment, Tajikistan's President Emomali Rahmon last week traveled to the United Arab Emirates. The bilateral deals signed at the conclusion ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - During the past 24 hours, Armenian armed forces 128 times violated ceasefire on various parts of the contact line between the troops of Azerbaijan and ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - A charity fair was held at the Old Square of Bishkek with the support of the diplomatic missions accredited in Kyrgyzstan in honor of Nowruz on March ...
Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan have cut the number of troops they had previously deployed at a disputed section of their common border in the Chalasart area, the Kyrgyz Border Guard ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 21 Trend: Following his spectacular crash at the Australian Grand Prix from which he thankfully escaped unharmed, McLaren-Honda driver and ...
Astana (Kazakhstan) (AFP) - The ruling party of energy-rich Kazakhstan's ageing autocrat President Nursultan Nazarbayev secured a landslide victory in parliamentary elections, results showed ...
REUTERS photo British oil major BP expects flat oil production in 2016 at its Azeri-Chirag-Guneshli (ACG) oilfields in Azerbaijan, where it plans two rounds of maintenance this year, the ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - Addressing residents and guests of the Kazakh capital, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated all Kazakhstanis on Nowruz, reports Kazinform. ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - Mountainous areas of Kyrgyzstan are still avalanche-prone on March 21 due to past precipitation and expected warmer weather, according to the Hydrometeorology Agency ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - The national football team of Tajikistan on Sunday arrived in Adelaide for the second round of the qualifying tournament of the 2018 FIFA World Cup against Australia, reported ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 21 Trend: Special Representative of the German Government for the OSCE Chairmanship Gernot Erler, together with the Co-Chairs of the OSCE Minsk ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 21 By Elena Kosolapova – Trend: Kazakhstan held a parliamentary election March 20, the result of which, according to exit polls, ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 21 Trend: Offroad motor rally was organized to Khinalig village of the Guba district, Azerbaijan, as part of the ASAN mektub project with the ...
Azerbaijan News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Mountainous terrain, spas, historical sites, an attractive seacoast and cave settlements are the chief attractions of Azerbaijan.
Azerbaijan will appeal to travelers who are looking for something truly different, who are accustomed to travel in the former Soviet Union and who enjoy roughing things a bit. Don't go expecting varied shopping, nightlife, deluxe accommodations or a relaxing vacation.
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from the United Nations Security Council sanctions list after a Chinese request, a media report said ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by temporarily easing trade sanctions slapped earlier this month against the Chinese telecom equipment and smartphone maker ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
BRUSSELS – Terror visited Brussels Tuesday morning, as explosions rocked the airport and a metro station - in apparently coordinated attacks, killing scores of people and grievously injuring many ...
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from the United Nations Security Council sanctions list after a Chinese request, a media report said ...
BAMAKO, Mali – At least three unidentified gunmen opened fire in their attempt to force their entry into the European Union Training Mission (EUTM) headquarters in the capital of Mali, Bamako, ...
LONDON – There are “clear downside risks” to the country if Britain left the European Union, ratings agency Moody’s said on Tuesday, warning that the exit from the bloc would also lead to ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
© 1999 - 2016 Azerbaijan News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)