2015-01~03
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/article/1736268/chinas-top-court-makes-dealing-terror-crimes-its-priority

China's top court makes dealing with terror crimes its priority | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Mainland sees 13pc rise in number of people convicted on terrorism and separatism charges
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
The mainland convicted and sentenced 712 people for terrorism, separatism and related crimes last year, the top court said yesterday, adding that such offences were its top priority this year.
Violent attacks and unrest have been on the rise in Xinjiang , home to the mostly Muslim Uygur minority, and Tibet , where reports of self-immolation in protest against Chinese rule often make global news.
The mainland has vowed to step up punishment of what it calls "violent terrorists" and is drafting its first anti-terrorism law. But rights groups warn that it would grant the Communist Party even greater powers to "define terrorism and terrorist activities so broadly as to easily include peaceful dissent or criticism" of government policies.
The number of people sentenced last year for crimes such as inciting secession and terrorist attacks was up 13.3 per cent from 2013, the Supreme People's Court said in its report to the National People's Congress.
"[We will] … firmly punish violent terrorist crimes according to the law," it said in the report.
Clashes and increasingly sophisticated strikes have spread, both in Xinjiang and outside it.
Among the most shocking attacks was a deadly rampage by knife-wielding assailants at a train station in Kunming , Yunnan , last March, when 31 people were killed.
Beijing has responded by launching a harsh crackdown in the region, with hundreds jailed or detained on terror-related offences after a deadly market attack in May that killed 39.
"We are just very concerned about … how the anti-terrorism law will … be a tool for the strike-hard campaign," London-based Amnesty International's China researcher William Nee said.
Meanwhile, a UN human-rights investigator criticised China's crackdown on Uygurs, citing "disturbing stories" of harassment and intimidation against the ethnic minority.
Heiner Bielefeldt, special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief, said China's actions against the Uygurs were "a major problem".
"I heard [about] intimidation during Ramadan - children in schools were expected to break their fasting on Ramadan," Bielefeldt said, referring to the month-long religious holiday when observant Muslims do not eat during the day.
Some Xinjiang cities have placed restrictions on Islamic dress, including the capital, Urumqi , which banned the wearing of veils in public late last year.
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei , said the government paid great attention to freedom of religion and it was "baseless" to say there was any kind of repression on religious practices over important festivals.