2015-01~03
https://www.middleeastmonitor.com/media-review/film-review/17604-uyghurs-prisoners-of-the-absurd-a-tale-of-three-mens-incredible-odyssey-to-freedom

Uyghurs: Prisoners of the Absurd, a tale of three mens’ incredible odyssey to freedom
It is 2001 and a group of men escaping persecution from the Chinese authorities journey to Afghanistan and Pakistan seeking refuge. They are all Uyghurs, a persecuted minority of Turkic-speaking Muslims who live predominantly in the autonomous Chinese region of Xinjiang. They do not know that terrorists have just attacked the twin towers in New York - an event which will change the course of their lives.
In reaction to the attack, the US invades Afghanistan on a mission to dismantle Al-Qaeda and remove the Taliban from power, offering large monetary awards for information on terrorists operating in the region. Strangers in the land, they find themselves easy targets for those hungry for the reward money - the Uyghur are sold as "terrorists" to the United States. Twenty-two Uyghur men are captured this way and taken to Guantanamo Bay, the notorious US military prison.
From northern China to Guantanamo, Cuba, this new documentary by Patricio Henríquez, which will be showcased during the Human Rights Watch Film Festival in London on the 22 and 24 March, maps the incredible odyssey of three of these "prisoners of the absurd" as they navigate their way to freedom through a complex maze of international politico-economic interests that have nothing to do with them. The men; Abu Bakker Qassum, Khalil Mamut and Ahmat Abdulahad, are quickly understood to be innocent by their US interrogators but they are to languish behind bars for many more years.
The documentary charts the defining of Guantanamo defendants as "unlawful combatants" (meaning they are deprived of rights outlined in the Geneva Convention) and US President Barack Obama's failed pledge to close the facility. In doing so it successfully highlights the very lawlessness at the core of Guantanamo's existence.
Pieced together from interviews with the men and those who fought to free them, you see an intimate account of their journey and the emotional struggle that comes with it- although some viewers may find the use of interviews throughout the whole documentary a little dry.
The men detail the abuse they suffer at the hands of US interrogators - their accounts of life in Guantanamo are harrowing. They end up in Camp 6, described as a "dungeon beneath the ground" or "the tomb" to prisoners, where sunlight is an utter luxury. For viewers of this documentary, it will however most likely be their continued imprisonment despite their established innocence that will shock.
Henríquez should be praised for carefully constructing this tale, which unravels like a kafka-esque nightmare. The men wake up in part from this nightmare and find unlikely homes across the globe, albeit, in the words of one former detainee, with the best years of their life having passed them by. As viewers, we are left shocked at the utter injustice the Uyghurs faced and questioning the US's response to the 9/11 attacks.
Please respect and abide by our Community Guidelines when leaving comments.

The number of Palestinian prisoners held in solitary confinement in Israeli jails has sharply increased over the last tw...


Egyptian President Abdel Fatah Al-Sisi today convened an emergency security meeting to discuss a recent spike in militan...


Israeli officials have praised the Palestinian Authority’s security cooperation, noting that it is improving, but added ...


A mayor of a French city has been taken to court because of a poster he placed on the municipality window showing suppor...


Leading Israeli newspaper

Haaretz

yesterday published an opinion piece written by Zvi Bar’el equating Egypt with Israel as...


The Muslim Brotherhood is celebrating 88 years since its establishment in 1928 across 52 Arab, European, Asian, African ...


An Egyptian economic expert said yesterday that Egypt does not need to receive a loan from the International Monetary Fu...


On March 25th 1975, the famed King Faisal Ibn Saud of Saudi Arabia was assassinated by being shot point-blank through the head by his own nephew.

Is calling for the destruction of a state an expression of xenophobia, racism or bigotry? It might be radical, but it's not anything more than that. Take anarchists, for example; they call f...


The apparently sudden Russian military withdrawal from Syria,

starting on 15 March

, left political commentators puzzled, but few of the analyses offered should be taken seriously. There is li...


The Palestinian issue is experiencing paralysis due a number of international, regional, local and personal reasons, all of which have pushed it into a negative status quo. It is no longer m...


US presidential wannabe Hillary Clinton has made her extreme pro-Israel credentials clearer than ever as she seeks campaign donations and votes from lobbyists in America. According to a

repor...



Abrupt and unprecedented developments have characterised a long week in Moroccan-Sahara diplomacy. Signs of disagreement arose when UN chief Ban Ki-moon refused to reschedule his visit to No...
