2015-01~03
http://finance.townhall.com/columnists/nightwatch/2015/01/21/putin-refuses-to-back-down-on-ukraine-n1945897

Putin Refuses to Back Down on Ukraine - Night Watch - Townhall Finance Conservative Columnists and Financial Commentary - Page 1
Japan-China: Three China Coast Guard ships sailed into Japanese territorial waters around the Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea on Monday, the Japan Coast Guard said. A Japan Coast Guard patrol ship issued a warning that urged the Chinese ships to leave. The intrusion was the second this year. China Coast Guard ships last entered the waters on 9 January.
Comment: There was no reported exchange of fire and no close calls by the ships. The two might have been testing recently approved crisis avoidance and communications procedures.
On 12 January Japan's Defense Minister Gen Nakatani said that Japan and China agreed to an early activation of a maritime and air crisis management mechanism for the Senkaku Islands/Diaoyus. The mechanism includes a hotline between authorities, apparently the Coast Guards; use of a common radio frequency for ships and aircraft in proximity to the islands and annual working meetings on crisis management.
Comment: The mechanism should help prevent incidents from escalating. On the other hand it is a clear statement by both nations that they have no intention of dropping their claims or backing down from asserting them.
Vietnam-China: Chinese police shot dead two ethnic Uighurs who were trying to cross the border into Vietnam, state media said on the 19th. A "conflict" occurred when the Uighurs "violently resisted arrest" near a highway tollbooth on Sunday night in Pingxiang city in the southern region of Guangxi Province, the China News Service said.
The Ministry of Public Security said that since May a task force on human smuggling across the country's southwestern borders had uncovered 262 cases. The authorities said they worry that Uighurs go abroad to contact Islamist militants. The smuggling is "mainly organized abroad and controlled behind the scenes by the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) in efforts to spread religious extremism, and bewitch and incite people to flee abroad to take part in jihadist activities," the ministry said in a statement on its website.
Comment: This event is significant because it confirms the Uighur connection through Vietnam. Uighurs reside primarily in far northwestern China. Nevertheless, during the past year, Uighur militants attacked public transportation stations in several major cities in southern China. The smuggling is not for human bondage, but for aiding Uighur militants in reaching Islamist training centers and returning to China to conduct terrorist attacks.
Get the best of Townhall Finance Daily delivered straight to your inbox

 TownhallFinance.com makes available to the viewer a variety of independent sources that offer trading and investment advice and related services and products.
 Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service
 is provided to you
