2015-01~03
http://finance.townhall.com/columnists/nightwatch/2015/01/15/china-bans-burqas-n1943246

China Bans Burqas - Night Watch - Townhall Finance Conservative Columnists and Financial Commentary - Page 1
China: State press announced a ban on burqas in public places in Xinjiang region, where the Uighur population resides. Most Uighurs are Muslims. Explaining the new ban,Xinhuasaid: "The regulation is seen as an effort to curb growing extremism that forced Uighur women to abandon their colorful traditional dress and wear black burqas."
"Burqas are not traditional dress for Uygur women, and wearing them in public places is banned in countries such as Belgium and France."
Comment: Chinese authorities also have banned long beards on men and fasting during Ramadan. They also maintain strict controls of mosques.
The Chinese have a prophylactic approach to controlling Islamic and other terrorism. They understand that wearing burqas and long beards are political acts of defiance as well as religious statements. Thus, the Chinese have chosen to ban and treat harshly the minor public acts of defiance as political crimes, while allowing the private practice of religion, for now.
This is a variation of "broken windows" policing. It also borders on being reverse terror. It is not completely effective, but the Chinese have not begun to exhaust the tactics in the communist repertoire for suppressing dissidence. Thus far, they appear to be trying to be civil in suppressing Uighur terrorism.
Kazakhstan-Ukraine: Update.Meeting in Astana, Kazakhstan, the foreign ministers of Germany, Ukraine, Russia and France failed to find enough common ground to proceed with a summit of leaders later this week. This ended the latest attempt to resolve the Ukraine crisis.
"The differences of opinion made clear how difficult it is to make progress along the path to a political solution, but also to a summit in Astana, which many expect, but which also needs to be prepared," German Foreign Minister Steinmeier said.
He said that representatives from the respective ministries would meet in the coming days to see if they could bridge differences, and it was possible that the foreign ministers could meet again at short notice. "If there is progress made at that level in the coming days, then we are prepared to meet again next week and resume this discussion we began today," he told reporters.
Comment: The ministers provided no details on the sticking points. Before the talks, Ukraine insisted that it would take back the regions in secession and the leadership of the Luhansk and Donetsk said they would never give up their independence. There was never much of a basis for negotiating because neither side has been willing to compromise.
Get the best of Townhall Finance Daily delivered straight to your inbox

 TownhallFinance.com makes available to the viewer a variety of independent sources that offer trading and investment advice and related services and products.
 Copyright © Townhall.com. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service
 is provided to you
