2015-01~03
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/229568215

Chinese Activist Faces Deportation After Escape to Meet Husband in Vietnam - China National News
Authorities in Vietnam are preparing to deport a prominent rights activist who crossed the border illegally from China to be with her husband following a travel ban imposed on her by Chinese police, she said on Wednesday.
Liu Linna, better known by her pseudonym Liu Shasha, was detained by Vietnamese police at her hotel after crossing the border from the southwestern Chinese region of Guangxi last November to spend time with her Hong Kong-based husband, who is unable to travel to China.
"I have to be deported back to China according to their laws, and I was ... informed today that I will be fined four million dong (U.S. $187)," said Liu, who was still on the Vietnamese side of the border when she spoke to RFA.
Liu has been banned from leaving China through official routes, while her Hong Kong-based husband has been banned from entering the country, leaving the couple with nowhere to make a home together.
She said she had heard "more than one" Vietnamese police officer say that her money, cell phone and laptop would be confiscated.
But she added: "I believe that the Vietnamese authorities aren't to blame here. This situation has been forced on us by China."
Liu's husband Yeung Hung said the couple had been crossing borders illegally to meet since his "home travel permit" enabling Hong Kong citizens to visit mainland China was confiscated by Chinese authorities.
Hong Kong, China's Special Administrative Region, is a former British colony and still maintains an immigration border with the mainland.
"Shasha crossed the border into Vietnam illegally, because they won't allow her to leave the country officially," Yeung, who was able to travel freely on his Hong Kong-issued passport to Vietnam, told RFA on Wednesday.
"We had hoped to find some time to go traveling together before Chinese New Year," he said. "We tried to find a way to stop them from keeping us apart."
Yeung said his wife's detention was likely linked to increased security in Guangxi after a number of ethnic minority Uyghurs had tried to cross the border into Vietnam.
He said that following the growing number of Uyghurs using that underground escape route, Vietnamese authorities are now routinely deporting escapees back to China.
"I went to the police station and made a statement today," said Yeung, who is still in Vietnam. "The situation doesn't look very good."
"I'm afraid that they will hand Shasha over directly to the Chinese police," he said. "Under Chinese law, she crossed the border illegally."
Yeung, who captained a converted Hong Kong fishing vessel that carried nationalist activists to the disputed Diaoyu islands, where they were detained and deported by Japan in October 2012, said the couple appears to have been permanently prevented from meeting by the authorities.
"They won't let her out, and they won't give a reason for it," he said.
Yeung was detained by police in Guangdong's border city of Shenzhen in December 2013, as he tried to cross from neighboring Hong Kong to meet Liu after his travel permit was revoked by Chinese police.
Guangdong authorities jailed him for eight months on charges of "illegally crossing a border."
Yeung's travel permit for Hong Kong citizens wishing to go to mainland China was revoked by the authorities in 2013, after he and Liu Shasha tried to visit Liu Xia, wife of jailed Nobel peace laureate Liu Xiaobo, currently under house arrest in Beijing.
Accompanied by a Hong Kong camera crew, the pair got as far as the residential compound in a Beijing suburb where Liu Xia has been held under police guard since October 2010, holding a placard with the words "Liu Xia, everyone is behind you!" and shouting slogans through a megaphone.
The two activists were quickly detained, questioned for several hours, and then released. They married in August 2013.
Liu Xiaobo, 60, a literary critic and former professor, was awarded the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize "for his long and non-violent struggle for fundamental human rights in China" in a decision that infuriated Beijing, which says he has broken Chinese law.
He has been held since 2008 after helping to draft Charter 08, a manifesto calling for sweeping changes in China's government that was signed by thousands of supporters, and is serving an 11-year prison sentence for "inciting subversion of state power."
His wife Liu Xia has been held under house arrest at the couple's Beijing apartment since her husband's award was announced.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Kunshan (China), March 21 (IANS) India were placed in a relatively easy group in the women's section but the men's team did not prove to be as lucky at the draw for the prestigious Thomas and Uber Cup Finals badminton tournament that was held here on Monday.
In the men's section -- the Thomas Cup -- the Indian team have been drawn along with 13-times winners Indonesia and strong contenders Thailand and Hong Kong China in Group B.
The women's team have been placed in Group D of the Uber Cup alongside Japan -- the runners-up in the last edition in 2014 -- Australia and Germany.
The tournament will be held here in Kunshan from May 15-22.
Meanwhile, Thomas Cup defending champions Japan and top seeds China found themselves in the same group as the draw. The two powerhouses were drawn in Group A alongside France and Mexico, ensuring that the starting stage of the finals itself should be an intensely competitive affair.
Second seeds Denmark, in Group D, were drawn along with Chinese Taipei, New Zealand and South Africa while Group C has South Korea, Malaysia, England and Germany.
In the Uber Cup competition, hosts and defending champions China will have to contend with European power Denmark in Group A. Their group-mates are Spain and Malaysia.
Group B consists of Korea, Chinese Taipei, Mauritius and USA, while Group C has Thailand, Indonesia, Bulgaria and Hong Kong China.
Sixteen teams each in the Thomas Cup and Uber Cup qualified for the final rounds based on their performance in the continental team championships and team rankings. The No.1 and No.2 seeded teams were separated in the draw by placing them at the top of Group A and Group D respectively. The other teams and corresponding group positions were then picked by the invited dignitaries.
The top two teams in each group will make it to the knockout stages. There will be another draw for the quarter-finals.

UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved