2015-01~03
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/reuters/article-3009040/Tug-war-China-Turkey-suspected-Uighurs-Thailand.html

Tug-of-war between China, Turkey over suspected Uighurs in Thailand | Daily Mail Online

Published:
 04:24 EST, 24 March 2015

 | 
Updated:
 04:24 EST, 24 March 2015


BANGKOK, March 24 (Reuters) - A group of suspected Uighur
Muslims has become the focus of a diplomatic tug-of-war in
Thailand between China and Turkey, with both countries wanting
to repatriate them and hundreds of other suspected Uighurs
detained in Thailand as illegal immigrants.
The group of 17, all from the same family, were detained by
Thai police in March 2014 after illegally entering overland from
Cambodia, said their lawyer Worasit Piriyawiboon.
Two of the family's 13 children were born in custody.
The family, who use the name Teklimakan, have spent most of
the past year in the main police immigration detention centre in
Bangkok.
The group claimed to be Turkish and, while still in
detention, were issued with passports by the Turkish Embassy and
granted permission to travel to Turkey.
China insists the 17 detainees are Chinese Uighurs who
should be returned to the northwest Chinese region of Xinjiang,
according to court documents seen by Reuters.
Hundreds of people have been killed in unrest in Xinjiang in
the past two years, prompting a crackdown by Chinese authorities
and small numbers of Uighurs to try and flee the country.
Hundreds, possibly thousands, have travelled clandestinely
through Southeast Asia en route to Turkey.
Thai National Security Council secretary-general Anusit
Kunakorn told Reuters that China and Turkey have asked Thailand
for help in repatriating those detained.
"Both China and Turkey have asked for our help in
repatriating Uighurs," Anusit told Reuters, adding that he would
not be drawn on whether Thailand sides with one country over the
other. "Their nationalities need to be verified. Thailand is
just on the receiving end."
On Tuesday, there was palpable tension in the Bangkok South
Criminal Court where the case of the 17 suspected Uighurs was
being heard. Representatives from the Turkish and Chinese
embassies assembled to hear the case sat far apart.
"These are Turkish citizens. They have Turkish passports.
These people want to go to Turkey and we've already said
they can," said Ahmet Idem Akay, a Turkish diplomat who attended
the hearing.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said she
was not aware of the details of the case, but that China was
willing to increase cooperation with Thailand, Turkey and other
nations to fight illegal immigration.
The court will decide on Friday whether to order the group's
release. Under Thai law, court approval must be sought for
detention periods over seven days.
Rights groups, including the New-York based Human Rights
Watch, have urged the Thai government not to forcibly repatriate
the Uighurs to China, adding that many face severe persecution,
including the threat of arrest and torture.
The Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking people officially regarded
as "brothers" in Turkey, which already hosts large Uighur
populations.

 (Additional reporting by Ben Blanchard in BEIJING; Writing by
Andrew R.C. Marshall and Amy Sawitta Lefevre; Editing by Michael
Perry)
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group