2015-01~03
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/230996741

Increase in Criminal Trials in Xinjiang Indicates Growing Repression: Rights Journal - China National News
A significant increase in the number of overall criminal trials in northwest China's restive Xinjiang region indicates that authorities have intensified the suppression of human rights activism and dissent, a law and human rights journal has reported.
The human rights journal, which reports on current issues in China's criminal justice system, analyzed? official court statistics that showed the number of criminal trials held in Xinjiang rose more than 40 percent to more than 29,500 last year compared to the number of criminal trials in 2013.
The increase in trials for crimes such as endangering public security, disrupting social market economic order, infringing on citizens' personal and democratic rights, obstructing social administrative order and embezzlement and bribery came as the number of trials for charges of endangering state security remained flat in 2014 compared to the previous year.
The number of trials for obstructing social administrative order doubled to more than 4,500 in 2014, the report said, noting that authorities use this category to target unauthorized Islamic and Christian groups. It also covers the distribution of religious materials as well as assemblies and demonstrations.
The number of trials for infringing upon citizens' personal and democratic rights nearly doubled to 7,500 last year, the report said. This category includes inciting racial hatred and ethnic discrimination, which authorities use to charge those who disseminate information that "tarnishes" China's ethnic harmony. For Uyghurs, this means that those who challenge government bans on beards, veils and religious observances can face criminal penalties.
Right groups examine such figures for telltale signs that the Chinese judicial system discriminates against Uyghurs, the Muslim and Turkic-speaking ethnic minority people who live in Xinjiang.
The article noted that the Xinjiang's high court's annual work report, and estimates issued last year, indicated that about 300 Endangering state security (ESS) trials had been held in the region in each year from 2010 to 2014.
ESS trials "can be used as a proxy for the suppression of human rights activism since several of the crimes in the ESS category are constituted by certain kinds of speech and association," the article said.
Xinjiang usually accounts for the highest number of such trials in China, the report said, although it noted that official data had yet to be released showing whether the number of ESS trials grew last year.
In 2014, about a dozen people were convicted of endangering state security last year in Xinjiang, according to political prisoner database, including Uyghur scholar Ilham Tohti.
The former economics professor at the Central University for Nationalities in Beijing was sentenced in September to life in prison, along with deprivation of political rights and confiscation of all his assets. Two months later, a high people's court rejected his appeal against his sentence.
Seven of Tohti's students were convicted last year on similar charges for their involvement in the operation of a Uyghur news website and received sentences of three to seven years.
Tohti has repeatedly denied the charges and said the cases against him and his students were politically motivated.
The report went on to note that the number of indictments for endangering state security in 2013 showed strong growth with 32 percent more individuals indicted in 57 percent more cases.
In the last few years, Xinjiang has seen an upsurge in violence that has left hundreds dead and which China has blamed on terrorists and Islamist insurgents seeking to establish an independent state called East Turkestan.
Under Chinese President Xi Jinping, Chinese authorities have conducted an antiterrorist campaign throughout Xinjiang, including police raids on Uyghur households, restrictions on Islamic practices, and curbs on the culture and language of the Uyghur people.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Kunshan (China), March 21 (IANS) India were placed in a relatively easy group in the women's section but the men's team did not prove to be as lucky at the draw for the prestigious Thomas and Uber Cup Finals badminton tournament that was held here on Monday.
In the men's section -- the Thomas Cup -- the Indian team have been drawn along with 13-times winners Indonesia and strong contenders Thailand and Hong Kong China in Group B.
The women's team have been placed in Group D of the Uber Cup alongside Japan -- the runners-up in the last edition in 2014 -- Australia and Germany.
The tournament will be held here in Kunshan from May 15-22.
Meanwhile, Thomas Cup defending champions Japan and top seeds China found themselves in the same group as the draw. The two powerhouses were drawn in Group A alongside France and Mexico, ensuring that the starting stage of the finals itself should be an intensely competitive affair.
Second seeds Denmark, in Group D, were drawn along with Chinese Taipei, New Zealand and South Africa while Group C has South Korea, Malaysia, England and Germany.
In the Uber Cup competition, hosts and defending champions China will have to contend with European power Denmark in Group A. Their group-mates are Spain and Malaysia.
Group B consists of Korea, Chinese Taipei, Mauritius and USA, while Group C has Thailand, Indonesia, Bulgaria and Hong Kong China.
Sixteen teams each in the Thomas Cup and Uber Cup qualified for the final rounds based on their performance in the continental team championships and team rankings. The No.1 and No.2 seeded teams were separated in the draw by placing them at the top of Group A and Group D respectively. The other teams and corresponding group positions were then picked by the invited dignitaries.
The top two teams in each group will make it to the knockout stages. There will be another draw for the quarter-finals.

UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved