2015-01~03
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/US/2015/03/06/Chinas-new-counterterrorism-law-could-heighten-human-rights-abuses/6581425651917/

China's new counterterrorism law sparks human rights debate - UPI.com
WASHINGTON, March 6 (UPI) -- A new counterterrorism law that will heighten surveillance in China is raising fresh concerns among human rights activists and in Washington.
The law, currently in draft form, requires technology companies doing business in China to surrender encryption codes, give backdoor security access to the Chinese government and retain data storage systems within China, The Washington Post reported Thursday.
Critics of the law pointed out that China is exploiting the threat of terrorism to increase its grip on all information.
Human Rights Watch has called the law a "license to commit human rights abuses."
The organization also has stated the 106-article draft defines terrorism so broadly it could easily "include peaceful dissent or criticism."
President Barack Obama has expressed disapproval of the law's overreaching powers to affect U.S. technology companies and how they operate in China.
China's official news agency said Obama's objection was "another piece of evidence of the arrogance and hypocrisy of U.S. foreign policy," referring to the lack of due process in Guantanamo and increased U.S. government power under the Patriot Act.
Human Rights Watch said the draft law was created in response to violence that has erupted in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in western China.
The Uyghurs are an ethnic Muslim minority. Uyghur attackers were blamed for a 2009 attack that killed several hundred people in Xinjiang.
In March 2014, eight knife-wielding assailants attacked a crowd at a train station in Yunnan province, and these incidents have been used by the government to crack down on 10 million ethnic Uyghurs.
In an interview with the Post, Chinese dissident Hu Jia said the law will restrict rights to a lawyer for those accused of terrorism, a slippery slope in authoritarian countries.
"Because the government controls propaganda, if they say you are a terrorist, then you are."
The draft law's definition of terrorism includes "thought, speech, or behavior" that attempt to "subvert state power," according to Human Rights Watch.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.