2015-01~03
http://english.cntv.cn/2015/03/15/VIDE1426408239238812.shtml

Interview: Xinjiang official on development and stability - CCTV News - CCTV.com English

Hot:
Exhibition of IPR protection
 | 
 Yuan
 | 
 Golden Era
 | 
 Four Comprehensives
 | 
 AIIB

Opinion | Panview | One Belt, One Road | Tibet | Closer to China with R.L.Kuhn
China | World | Business | Sports | Culture | Sci-Tech | Opinion | Special Reports
CCTV app for iPhone | iPad | Android Phone | I Love Africa for iOS | Android
Watch to Learn | Growing up with Chinese | Special Chinese | Travel in Chinese
CCTV-9 Docu Live | One City, One Flavor | World Heritage China | Roof of the World
Dialogue | China 24 | News Hour | Global Business | Sports Scene | Culture Express
China Video | World Video | Most Popular | Reporters | Correspondents |CCTV Interviews
Xi's speech | Military parade | Commemoration Ceremony | Patriotic songs
During the two sessions, Su Yuting sat down with NPC Deputy Shohrat Zakir, Chairman of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. He said efforts have been made to make Xinjiang become a "core area" of the Silk Road Economic Belt. He also said majority of terrorist attacks in Xinjiang are carried out by people under the influence of religious extremism. And he said the rule of law should be used to combat "extremism, terrorism and separatism" so that the region can achieve social stability and lasting peace.
Q1: Shohrat Zakir, Chairman of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. Good to have you on CCTV NEWS. Could you please tell us about the current economic development in Xinjiang? "
"I would like to quote some statistics to show the rapid and strong economic development in Xinjiang. For example, in 2009, local GDP was around 427 billion yuan. By 2014, it was more than 920 billion. In terms of speed of growth, Xinjiang's national ranking has gone from 30th to number 4. Chinese and foreign companies have increased their investment in Xinjiang because of its growth potential. These achievements were made thanks to the central government's preferential policies, assistance from other provinces and regions, and also the united efforts made by various ethnic groups," Zakir said.
Q2:Located in the center of Asia, Xinjiang played a role as a "bridgehead" in China's westward opening. What could Xinjiang do now, to turn itself into a "core area" of the Silk Road Economic Belt?
"In the one belt, one road initiative, the Silk Road Economic Belt cuts through thousands of kilometers in Xinjiang. Xinjiang is moving to the forefront of China's opening-up to Central Asia and Europe. It has provided great opportunities for Xinjiang, and we will turn Xinjiang into a transport, financial and logistics hub. Xinjiang has also introduced new policies to help with the development of special economic zones in Kashgar and Horgos, two border cities along China's northwestern frontier. These will enable Xinjiang to play a unique role in contributing to the prosperity of the Silk Road Economic Belt," Zakir said.
Q3: In recent years, violent terror attacks have frequently occurred in Xinjiang. What's behind the violence? "
"There are complicated reasons for the terrorist attacks. Most terrorist attacks in Xinjiang are carried out by people under the influence of religious extremism. The changing international environment is also an important factor in exacerbating the terrorist threat. And anti-China forces also play their part. Violence and terrorism are actions against humanity.These terror attacks have provoked strong condemnation and opposition among the people, and even relatives of the identified terrorists stepped forward to help the investigations," Zakir said.
Q4: What measures have been taken against terrorism in the region? "
"The rule of law is the key to lasting peace, ethnic unity is crucial for social stability, and long-term infrastructure construction is vital for economic development.The most important thing is to act according to the rule of law. We believe as long as all ethnic groups are united, there will be no harbor for extremism, terrorism and separatism. I am confident that over the past decade, ethnic groups in Xinjiang have united as one family and the foundation is as solid as a rock. Wrongdoers will not be able to break these close bonds," Zakir said.



Share this: 
Share on twitter
Share on facebook
Share on sinaweibo
Share on email




Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Instagram
Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Wechat
Manufacturing upgrade high on agenda as China Development Forum closes

Climate Change Conference
G20, APEC Summits
Xi visits U.S.
Beijing 2022
Xi Attends BRICS Summit
Truth and Denial
July 7th Incident
Understanding the CPC
Li Attends 17th China-EU Leaders' Meeting
7th China-U.S. S&ED & 6th CPE
Dragon Boat Festival
The Basic Law
Beijing Bids for 2022 Winter Olympics
Xi Visits Kazakstan, Russia, Belarus
Nepal Earthquake
World Book Day
2015 Boao Forum
2015 Two Sessions
AirAsia Flight Crashed
