2015-01~03
http://sputniknews.com/middleeast/20150205/1017825610.html

ISIL Executes Three Chinese Militants Attempting to Flee Group
"Over the last six months, the Islamic State group has executed 120 of its own members, most of whom had tried to escape from Syria and Iraq, including three Chinese citizens, among others,” an official in charge of security in the Xinjiang region told the newspaper.
One of the Chinese citizens was arrested, tried and killed in September 2014, according to the newspaper.
The two others were executed in December, together with 11 other militants from six different countries, the source told the Global Times.
Some 300 Chinese militants are fighting alongside the Islamic State, according to the news outlet.
Western intelligence officials estimate around 20,000 foreign fighters from 50 different nations have joined ISIL in Syria and Iraq over the past two years.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.