2015-01~03
http://www.newyorker.com/culture/photo-booth/life-in-chinas-outer-lands

Life in China’s “Outer Lands” - The New Yorker
The photographer Q. Sakamaki is familiar with dislocation. As a child growing up in Japan, he moved frequently with his family from one city to another to accommodate the demands of his father’s banking job. The experience not only gave him a taste for new places and faces but an acquaintance with the persistence and the ubiquity of human strife. “I was somehow nearly always an outsider or stranger,” he told me recently. “I often experienced or felt conflicts with others, often violently.”
Violence also has a tendency of erupting, with alarming frequency, in the regions Sakamaki has photographed for his series “China’s Outer Lands” (currently on view at the Half King gallery, in New York City), which is devoted to the marginalized ethnic groups of the country’s outer provinces. Last year, not long after Sakamaki travelled to Yunnan, a southwestern province bordering Vietnam and Myanmar that is home to twenty-five ethnic minorities, a knife attack at the railway station of Kunming, the provincial capital, claimed the lives of thirty-three civilians and injured more than a hundred and forty. The killing is thought to have been engineered by Uighur separatists (three of whom were sentenced to death last month) from Xinjiang, a predominantly Muslim province in the country’s northwest, which happens to be China’s most diverse and most divided.
Sakamaki, who has visited China multiple times over the past five years, knows Xinjiang well, and his portraits of a place and people in economic and social transition possess a bleak beauty, bleached of exoticism and postcard novelty. In one photograph, a drab first-grade classroom is populated by Uighur children sporting both traditional Doppa skullcaps and red socialist youth-league scarves, intently copying down the Chinese words “We want to grow up to be lawful youths.” Perhaps the most haunting image in the series shows a crush of Han and Uighur migrant workers at the Urumuqi Railway Station, a scene that is unnervingly reminiscent of the Kunming station moments before the massacre.
Sakamaki’s project, which also features communities in Manchuria, in Northeast China, and in Inner Mongolia, provides a rare view of lives that have largely been left out of China’s narrative of progress. Looking at his photos, I am reminded of a performance that took place in February at China’s spring-festival gala, an annual variety show that is aired by the state broadcaster, CCTV, and is the country’s single most watched television event of the year. The theme for 2015 was “Family Harmony Yields Success,” and for the first time in the show’s twenty-two-year history an ethnic Uighur—the handsome thirty-one-year old celebrity entertainer and Communist Party member Negmat Rahman—presented. Rahman played the role of token minority flawlessly. Along with his Han co-hosts, he applauded the show’s final display of national solidarity: a song-and-dance number by a minority coöperative, featuring waves of Uighur performers in flouncy skirts. Afterwards, with a firm shake of his mic, Rahman exclaimed to his audience of a billion, “May our motherland have a harmonious and prosperous year of the lamb!”
Less than a week earlier, a suicide bomber in southwest Xinjiang killed eight people. Four days after that, a knife and gun battle with the police in a nearby town left seventeen dead. Neither incident has yet been reported on CCTV.
Q. Sakamaki’s “China’s Outer Lands” is on view at the Half King gallery in New York City through May 24th.
Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day.
Jiayang Fan is a member of The New Yorker’s editorial staff.
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (effective January 1, 2014) and Privacy Policy (effective January 1, 2014). Your California Privacy Rights The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices 