2015-01~03
http://www.scmp.com/comment/insight-opinion/article/1693342/its-zeal-eradicate-terrorist-threat-china-must-still-protect

In its zeal to eradicate the terrorist threat, China must still protect civil liberties | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Zhou Zunyou says while China's campaign to eradicate domestic terrorist networks is justified and necessary, a careful balance is needed to also protect civil liberties
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
On January 18, police from Pingxiang, a city in Guangxi bordering Vietnam, shot dead two Uygurs who had tried, with several others, to cross the border illegally and had attacked the officers. The violent clash came amid an ongoing government campaign against organised human smuggling along China's southwestern borders, waged by the Ministry of Public Security. The campaign is primarily aimed at preventing Uygur extremists from leaving the country to join the insurgent group Islamic State, which is active in Syria and Iraq.
So far, around 1,200 people have been detained either for attempting to flee abroad or for organising illegal emigration. Allegedly, the mastermind of this large-scale smuggling is the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a major terrorist group that the government believes has been behind numerous attacks in China.
The threat posed by these fleeing Uygurs is not imagined. One notorious example was the attack on March 1 last year at the Kunming train station that killed 29 people and injured more than 140 others. The carnage was the work of
a group of Uygur extremists who had unsuccessfully attempted to cross the border. Another significant incident occurred in Shanghai last November, when nine Uygurs were detained as they tried to fly out of China using fake passports. According to officials, they were found in possession of terrorism-related videos.

The Chinese government is greatly concerned about the flow of radical Uygurs to the Middle East, because of fears that, as soon as these battle-hardened and networked terrorists return, they could launch lethal attacks at home.
The reality is grim. According to a report published last December, around 300 Chinese nationals were estimated to have been fighting alongside Islamic State. More recently, the Malaysian authorities revealed that over 300 Chinese nationals were said to have used Malaysia as a transit point on their way to join Islamic State. There was no mention of ethnicity, but it's everybody's guess that they were mostly Uygur.
China is not alone with this problem. European countries face the challenge of scores of radicalised young Europeans heading to fight for Islamic State and later returning to their homeland. In Germany alone, at least 550 people have departed for the Middle East and
around 180 have come back.

The Chinese crackdown on human smuggling is an attempt to cut the physical connections between Uygur extremists within the country and foreign-based terrorists. It is just one aspect of China's counter-terrorism strategy. The other is to sever virtual connections.
Ever since the jeep attack in Tiananmen Square in October 2013, China has seen an upsurge in terrorist activities. A key factor behind the escalation has been the online circulation of material related to a global jihad. Since realising this, Beijing has made strenuous efforts to curb the spread of online terrorism-related material, removing it from the internet and punishing those who break the rules on internet censorship.
Chinese anti-terrorism efforts appear to be justified and effective, but they have also triggered international criticism. Human rights advocates argue that the campaigns deprive Uygurs of their fundamental freedom of movement and of speech, as guaranteed by various international human rights instruments.
For example, the freedom of movement is enshrined in Article 12 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, stating that everyone shall be free to leave any country, including their own, and that no one shall be arbitrarily deprived of the right to enter their own country.
Freedom of speech, meanwhile, is provided in Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, stating that everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression, including freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.
Terrorism is a social evil. How serious the problem is generally depends on how harmonious a particular society is. And since human societies cannot be perfectly harmonious, they can never be immune from terrorism. Thus, China will never be completely free of the scourge of terrorism, especially as Xinjiang continues to be plagued by ethnic tensions.
In the fight against terrorism, we need to recognise that people have entered a new phase of society characterised by various hazards and insecurities. When we take harsh measures to tackle the problem of terrorism, we trade some of our civil liberties for greater security.
However, we should be aware that terrorism can only be discouraged, reduced or controlled, but never totally eliminated, just as a body cannot be completely rid of a disease. If we strive for absolute security, we will unquestionably also lose the civil liberties we hold dear.
Dr Zhou Zunyou, head of the China section at Germany's Max Planck Institute for Foreign and International Criminal Law, is the author of Balancing Security and Liberty: Counter-Terrorism Legislation in Germany and China