2015-01~03
http://www.worldbulletin.net/headlines/155122/80-of-uigur-muslims-without-water

80% of Uigur Muslims without water | Caucasus | Worldbulletin News
 A water conservation project in a remote area of China’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR) begun two decades ago has yet to bring clean drinking water to the area, with only 750,000 people have access to clean water.
According to a joint report by the Water Conservancy Office of southwestern Xinjiang’s Hotan (in Chinese, Hetian) prefecture and the regional Water Conservancy Department, more than,one million of Hotan’s two million residents - 80% - lack potable water, the website Taianshen.net reported recently.
The problem was raised at the Third Meeting of the Twelfth People’s Congress of the XUAR on the 20th January, Taianshen.net reported, adding that representatives blamed the shortfall on the water project being designed according to population statistics in 1995, when it was launched.
Residents of Hotan told RFA’s Uyghur Service that most of the infrastructure set up through the project lacked sanitation stations and water was instead being piped directly from reservoirs to people’s homes in the prefecture, leaving residents susceptible to waterborne diseases and other contaminants.
“We use piped water in Keriya (Yutian) county—it’s been like that for years, at least five or six,” a Uyghur farmer from the county’s Achal town said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
“The water source is pretty very far. They build a reservoir and water is brought directly from there through the pipes. It hasn’t been purified or disinfected. There is no facility there and this is a remote town, so … if there are any waterborne diseases, we are out of luck.”
 Boerkou is a nomad living in the county. Both he and his wife are members of the Mongolian ethnicity. They own more than 300 sheep, 20 cattle and three pastures. Every winter and spring, he herds at Big River Valley pasture close to his home. This vast pasture provides enough food and water for his sheep and cattle which he herds, while his wife takes care of the farming - their daughter is studying at college in the Henan Province. 
In early mornings during winter, he collects drinking water from a spring in the valley. T
Though it is frozen, it is pure, sweet natural spring water. 
Every morning at 11 am, he releases the sheep and cattle from their pens. He rides his donkey while he's herding, a life he loves.  He knows every corner of his pasture: where to find the best grass, the purest spring water, where to hide during sudden winds and rains, and the fastest route back home. 
Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the Germany-based World Uyghur Congress (WUC), said the 1995 water conservation project had done little to improve the lives of Hotan prefecture’s residents.“It is a scam that China’s claim of a clean water project has been realized in the Hotan region,” he said.“This project has only changed one thing—now farmers are paying for the water that they used to drink for free.”
Stefan Jagsch, a member of the far-right National Democratic Party, was badly injured in the crash last week; the first responders were two Syrian asylum seekers
Ramallah-based unity gov't announces ban on goods made by five Israeli firms from entering Palestinian market
A court found Savchenko 'guilty on all counts' and sentenced her to 22 years in prison and a $440 fine at the end of a trial that has been slammed by the West and Kyiv as a political farce
President Beji Caid Essebsi 'has decided after consultations... to extend the state of emergency for a period of three months from March 23'
'UNHCR is not a party to the EU-Turkey deal, nor will we be involved in returns or detention,' the UN agency says
At least 26 people have been killed in explosions in Belgian capital
Border is reopened two weeks after deadly militant attack on Tunisia's eastern city of Ben Guerdane
A Belgian prosecutor says explosion at Zaventem airport was caused by suicide bomber
European leaders expressed their solidarity with Brussels and Belgium as a whole
'The aim of the meeting is to reach agreement among producers on freezing their crude output at January levels in order to reduce the excess supplies on world markets,' Qatari energy ministry says
US Secretary Kerry meets with parties negotiating peace deal in Colombia at request of Colombian President Santos in Havana
EU staff told to remain indoors or at home after Brussels blasts: Commission
Blast rocks Brussels metro at Maalbeek station, which is about 500m from the EU buildings
Suspected cases to be vaccinated against the virus on Tuesday. Guinea was declared Ebola free last December
Donald Trump on Monday pledged to protect Israel from threats ranging from the Iran nuclear deal to the possibility that the UN will consider some sort of settlement with the Palestinian
Two loud explosions have been heard at Brussels airport forcing the closure to all departures and arrivals
Chinese police raided 148 points in Muslim Xinjiang in 2014
US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

Gunman killed in attack on Mali hotel hosting EU mission

US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar

NASA astronaut to return to Earth after year in space
