2015-01~03
http://www.worldbulletin.net/haberler/154086/china-to-register-uighur-muslims-phone-and-computers

China to register Uighur Muslims phone and computers | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
The English-language Shanghai Daily, citing local officials, said the measure was “in response to the spread of terrorist recordings.”
Xinjiang has seen a string of attacks over the past year amid tension between the minority Muslim Uighur population and Han Chinese. This has led to a security crackdown in which hundreds of people have been arrested and dozens executed.
Beijing blames the violence on Uighur separatists but activists claim China's policies towards Uighur are repressive and fuel resentment.
Under the new telecommunications rules, vendors are required to upload buyers’ personal details to a police-run data system, regional news portal www.iyaxin.com said Thursday.
Local media did not say when the new rules would be introduced.
Some locations, such as electronics malls, will have to have surveillance cameras, the footage from which must be kept for at least 30 days.
The selling of unregistered “black cards” for phone or wifi services will be banned. The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology said black cards could be used to spread pornography, commit fraud and organize terrorism.
In June, the government said the East Turkestan Islamic Movement had produced and spread 109 “terror-related” recordings in 2013.
Such video and audio files have been a feature of attacks in Xinjiang, the government claimed. These included attacks in Xinjiang’s capital Urumqi in April and May last year that killed 42 people.
Last July, 32 people were jailed for spreading terrorist-related audios and videos and organizing terrorist groups, the Daily said.
In another effort to curb terrorism, Xinjiang will introduce registration for people buying fireworks for Chinese New Year on Feb. 19.
The Uighur are an ethnic Turkic group that makes up around 45 percent of the population of Xinjiang.
A 67-year-old man from the southeastern city of Chittagong, who had not travelled abroad, was found to have the virus in his blood
Security forces detonate roadside bomb in Muslim majority province where military has been clashing with ISIL-affiliated group
Two maintenance workers have been killed after a train in Singapore hit the workers
Suu Kyi to take one of four positions in new cabinet, with Minister of Foreign Affairs tipped to be the likely choice
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
Chinese police raided 148 points in Muslim Xinjiang in 2014
US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

Gunman killed in attack on Mali hotel hosting EU mission

US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar

NASA astronaut to return to Earth after year in space
