2015-01~03
http://www.todayonline.com/world/asia/china-can-play-middleman-s-asian-geopolitics

China can play middleman in S Asian geopolitics | TODAYonline
There is a bit of a hermetic feel to Pakistan these days, as if the country that lies on the ancient road from the West to Asia, a natural bridge, had somehow contorted itself into a self-imposed isolation.
The border with India, dividing the Punjab, lies not far from the great city of Lahore. It is a barrier rather than a gateway. The border with Afghanistan is problematic in its non-existence. The Taliban in its Pakistani iteration — or the beast nurtured in the name of Islamabad’s policy of “strategic depth” (whatever that may be) — massacred 134 children at Peshawar’s Army Public School late last year. Not surprising then that tourism is down to a trickle. I made my way to the Badshahi Mosque and the Lahore Fort — high-walled, dusky-red, magnificent in extent. There was not a foreigner in sight, not a camera clicking.
United States President Barack Obama goes to India and Pakistan is way down on his agenda — if it is there at all. Nobody in Washington frets any longer about balancing visits to New Delhi and Islamabad. Oh, yes, Afghanistan, American treasure and Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence directorate, or top spy agency: Well, the less said about that, the better.
India is a democracy and a great power rising. Pakistan is a Muslim homeland that lost half its territory in 1971, bounced back and forth between military and nominally democratic rule, never quite clear of annihilation angst despite its nuclear weapons, its Prime Ministers as susceptible to a violent end as Henry VIII’s wives, struggling to define its identity almost 68 years after it came into being. The fog of war is rivalled only by the fog of Pakistan, in which Osama bin Laden lived and paced for several years.
But perhaps something new is stirring in the penumbra. There is much chatter about Beijing. China needs Pakistan to keep India busy; it does not want an India freed of its Pakistani headache. So Beijing helps Pakistan with military technology. It builds nuclear power stations. (The Saudis help Pakistan with big gifts, too, widely seen as informal insurance of protection with those Pakistani nukes if ever needed by the Royals or Riyadh.)
Interests shift, however. China needs Pakistan on another front now. This month, a Uighur suicide bomber killed as many as eight people in the volatile Chinese region of Xinjiang, near the border of Pakistan. It was the latest in a series of attacks by Muslim Uighurs resentful of domination by the Han Chinese. Some Uighurs have embraced jihadi Islam, an ideology for which plentiful schooling and terrorist training is available in both Pakistan and Afghanistan.
In this light, reining in the Taliban looks a little more attractive to the Chinese than it once did. And, as the US learned long ago, if you want to do something about the Taliban, you should better do something about Pakistan.