2015-01~03
http://en.people.cn/n/2015/0311/c90882-8861281.html

Biased perceptions skew Xinjiang’s image - People's Daily Online

Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region has been increasingly plagued by terrorist attacks. What impact have the frequent attacks made on Xinjiang? How will Xinjiang deal with terrorism in the future? Global Times reporter Yu Jincui interviewed two deputies from Xinjiang to the 12th National People's Congress.

 Hotan is one of the worst affected places in Xinjiang by religious extremism and one of the areas targeted by the "three evil forces" of separatism, extremism and terrorism, who plot and launch sabotage activities and terrorist attacks.

 The "three evil forces" make use of pure religious beliefs of some Xinjiang people, spreading religious extremism and scourging the region with the purpose of curbing the development of China and splitting the country.

 Some label them as "Xinjiang Uyghur" terrorists or "Xinjiang Islamic" terrorists, but a minority of violent terrorists cannot represent the whole people or religion.

 All the people in Xinjiang, including Uyghurs, strongly resent the terrorists, and Islam is not automatically related to terrorism.

 The display of violence and the killing of innocent people are indicative of a radical and extremist mind-set that is basically opposite to the unanimous teachings of Islam.

 When there are terrorist attacks in Xinjiang, some Western scholars applied double standards and made irresponsible remarks and accusations against China's policy toward ethnic groups. They indeed view China's ethnic theories and policies in a biased way.

 China, in a bid to accelerate development of ethnic groups, has adopted a slew of preferential policies, providing funds, technology and personnel aid.

 Take Xinjiang. Bonus points are awarded to ethnic minority students at the national college entrance examination. Inland high-school classes are offered for Xinjiang students, a policy that allows inland high schools to enroll students from Xinjiang, which has enabled a part of the Xinjiang students to access high-quality education resources as their counterparts in the eastern coastal developed regions do. I have two children. One of them was enrolled in a high school in Shenzhen. She has graduated from Tianjin University and is working in Urumqi.

 Since the first central work meeting on Xinjiang in 2010 decided to set up a mechanism under which 19 provinces or major cities including the prosperous Beijing, Shanghai and Guangdong Province, provide financial and technological support to Xinjiang, the autonomous region has received considerable aid in its development both from the central government and the 19 provinces and cities.

 In the future, Xinjiang should reinforce its efforts in cracking down on terrorists and creating a favorably stable environment for improving local people's livelihood. We also have to promote education and help people with de-radicalization. China is making its first ever anti-terror law, which will provide legal proof to safeguard stability of society and crack down on terrorism.

 The terrorist attacks in Xinjiang and other cities such as Kunming in recent years have jeopardized Xinjiang's image both at home and abroad, dealing a heavy blow to Xinjiang's cultural exchanges with the outside and the tourism industry.

 Through efforts of fighting against terrorism, Xinjiang currently is at peace and the living standards of people have kept improving. More visitors, be they from foreign countries or the inland regions, should come and see how peaceful Xinjiang is.

 I am a performer. There are a variety of forms of folk arts in Xinjiang, which deserve more opportunities and greater platforms. The content of Xinjiang's folk arts is an embodiment of Xinjiang's rural development, which reflects people's love of life and peace.

 This year marks the 60th anniversary of the founding of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, I propose we organize a series of performances nationwide, especially in the 19 friendly provinces and cities that offer aid to our development, using folk arts and culture to promote Xinjiang's image and improve our external understanding. 