2015-01~03
http://www.asiabulletin.com/index.php/sid/231332905

Police Raids Yield No Clues About Kidnapped Uyghur Village Police Chief - Asia Bulletin
A wide-ranging police search for an ethnic Uyghur security chief kidnapped by a group of Uyghurs in an area known for violence between the ethnic group and Han Chinese in China's restive, far-western Xinjiang region has so far yielded no clues, local police said.
Imin Memtimin, 41, who has played an active role in police operations in Sadiqawat village of Baghchi township in Hotan county, was kidnapped by unknown men from his home on the morning of March 9.
Police have been conducting raids of homes in the village in hopes of determining the identities of the kidnappers and finding Memtimin, who served as a police officer from 2010 to 2012 and was later promoted to Sadiqawat's security chief. ?
"The investigation teams from the county and prefectural levels have been stationed in the village," a police officer at the Baghchi township police station told RFA's Uyghur Service.
Hotan (Hetian in Chinese) prefecture in southwestern part of Xinjiang has been rife with stabbing and shooting incidents between ethnic, mostly Muslim Uyghurs and Chinese security forces, with attacks coming amid a string of assaults and bombings across the region, formally called the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.
Adil Ismayil, deputy chief of Hotan country's Public Security Department, who is leading an investigation team of seven officers in conducting the raids, told RFA that the operation is still under way in the prefecture, but his authority was limited in terms of disclosing information about the case.
Four kidnappers wearing black masks over their faces and carrying sticks entered Memtimin's house at 2 a.m. on March 9, said Memtimin Tursuntohti, a police officer in Sadiqawat village.
The kidnappers, who may also have had knives, told Memtimin to be silent and come with them, he said.
"They allowed him to wear his clothes, then took him without touching anything in the house," he said. "They pushed his wife away while she was asking, 'Who you are? Where are you taking him to?'"
At first, Memtimin's wife thought that police were taking away her husband for presumably doing something wrong at work, but she became aware that the men were kidnappers when she saw the sticks in their hands instead of guns, Tursuntohti said.
The kidnappers told Memtimin's wife, who later relayed the information to police, to take care of herself and her children, but she fainted from the scare, Tursuntohti said.
"According this information, we know that the kidnappers were Uyghur, but still we don't know further information about their identities," he said, adding that the prefectural-level investigation team might know more about the incident because they came to the scene with technical equipment.
"So far, we've interrogated more than 1,000 people and detained more than 200 as suspects," in Sadiqawat village, Tursuntohti said, adding that he did not know how many people had been detained in other villages and counties. ?
"It is clear for me that the whereabouts of our security chief Imin Memtimin are still unknown," he said.
Azat Mijit, chief of Sadiqawat village, said the village had remained free of any violent incidents, although some residents had heard of such incidents occurring elsewhere.
"That is why we are in a weak position in terms of collaborating with the police investigation," he said. "No home has been skipped during the raids in my village, but still we have no valuable information about the kidnappers and the whereabouts of the security chief."
Mijit said it was difficult for authorities higher up to keep news of the incident quiet so as not to encourage terrorists or scare off Han Chinese who live in the area.
"But they have been forced to disclose the incident given the circumstances of the investigation," he said.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
In the previousfive to tenyears the number of science parks in Russia hasgrownrapidly. Officially, there are nowmore than 300.
Experts, however, saya large number exist on paper only. For example, they might justbe office buildings, and notcenters of technologicalinnovation and development that the country needs in these difficult times.
According to the Russian Association of Clusters and Science Parks, there are only about70 genuinefull-fledged science parks in Russia. Theseare places where tech entrepreneurs can receive the full spectrumof necessary support.
"A genuinescience park consists of laboratories, and organizeseducational andaccelerationevents, as well as providesupport for startups that want to reachinternational markets; but the majority of science parks in Russia are either industrial areasor just office buildings," Renat Batyrov, general directorof the Skolkovo Science Park, told RBTH. He points to the IT-park in Kazan,and the Novosibirsk Science Park as examples of trulysuccessful projects.
In thesetimes of economic crisis and shortage of financing Russian science parks can onlycount onstate support. Private domesticinvestors are tightening budgets, andforeign investors are blocked by sanctions.
"If the government decides to invest in science parks, it would be one of the most effective anti-crisis measures," saidthe RussianAssociation of Clusters and Science Parks in a statement. "This would help create new high-tech companies and new jobs. Scienceparkscreate favorable conditions for the development of new businesses."
According to the Russian Communications Ministry, most science parks specialize in the IT field. Other fields include medicine, biotech, nanotechnology, and the development of new materials. One more important sector for Russia is the oil and gas industry.
Russia's massive size has an impact on science parks' specializations and geographic orientation. Parks in the Far East and Siberiaare oriented moretowards collaboration with China, Japan and South Korea.
"Due to our proximity, wecan serve asa window to Asia for Russian tech companies," Anatoly Semenov, directorof the Yakutia Science Park inSiberia, told RBTH. Thispark alreadyhas joint projects with a South Korean bio-tech companyinChuncheon Province.
Science parks in Moscow, St. Petersburg and Kaliningrad feel a stronger tieto Europe.
"We are oriented moretowards Finland, the Czech Republic and those countries closest to St. Petersburg," said Alexander Koloustov, director of the science park at the St. Petersburg National Research University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics.
The type of businessoften influences cooperation with other countries. For example, French companies are interested in Russia's south with its proximity to the markets of Eastern Europe and its agro-industrial potential.
"Due to the presence of Renault in our city, we are actively developing automobile technologies; and many French citizenscurrently live in Togliatti," noted Alexei Kokotkin, deputy general director of the Zhigulevskaya Dolina Science Park, whichalso collaborates with France in the field of space technologies.
As far as the futureMr. Batyrov believes that thepseudo science parks operatinginoffice buildingswill eventually vanish. Geographical specialization will be preserved and will possibly become even more defined.
"Considering Russia's technological needs there should bea science parkin every city witha population over 500,000 people,'' saidBatyrov. "It'snecessary to coordinatethe best parks, andcreate information systems that will help residents find partners in other science parks at homeand abroad.''
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
Get the latest Asia Bulletin headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Asia Bulletin - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved