2015-01~03
http://www.saharasamay.com/world-news/676567134/earthquake-hits-china-s-xinjiang-1500-people-affected.html

Earthquake hits China's Xinjiang:1500 people affected
Serbia's Novak Djokovic decisively beat Canada's Milos Raonic 6-2, 6-0 in just an hour and
A moderate earthquake of 5.0 magnitude damaged about 50 houses and displaced over 1,500 people in China's northwest Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.
No casualties have been reported so far. The epicenter of the quake was detected at a depth of 10 km, the China Earthquake Networks Centre said.
The earthquake damaged 51 houses and affected 1,508 people, who have relocated to their relatives' homes, the local government sites and clinics, said Atux mayor Ababakeri Mametmin, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.
Tents, stoves and other relief materials have arrived at the affected areas, he said.The Kizilsu prefecture is located in the west-end of Xinjiang.
There are about 20 villages less than 30 kilometres away from the epicenter. Some old houses were "moderately damaged" by the tremor, according to the regional seismological bureau.
Zhi Hao, secretary of the ruling Communist Party of China,(CPC) in Karajol, said 17,499 people live in the township,which covers an area of 8,452 square kilometres.
The scattered settlement of many herdsmen has created difficulties for casualty and damage counting and rescue efforts.
 The regional government has sent a work team to the affected areas.
super luxury car maker Rolls-Royce is gearing up to tap the country's Billionaires with ne
Coming-of-age drama 'Boyhood' won three of the biggest awards at the BAFTA 2015 but it was
Sunny Leone is seen scorching the screen in the first look of Leela with her bold acts.
Samsung unveiled the Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, S
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian reportedly wants Beyonce to buy a house in her gated commun
Automaker Renault India today said it will roll-out a multi-purpose vehicle 'Lodgy' and a
Pharma tycoon Dilip Shanghvi surpassed Mukesh Ambani as the world's richest Indian with a
When Holi is round the corner, can anyone forget all-time hit Bollywood songs?
In an interim order, the Bombay High Court has restrained the city police from arresting o
Good news for the fans’ of Salman Khan and Deepika Padukone.
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian has posed nude for the upcoming 10th season of 'Keeping Up
Bollywood superstar Akshay Kumar and Actress cum Entrepreneur Shilpa Shetty Kundra have pa
Kashmir witnessed season's heaviest snowfall as the arterial Jammu-Srinagar National Highw
Mexican actress Stephanie Sigman has joined Monica Bellucci and Lea Seydoux as the new bon
Luxury carmaker Mercedes-Benz launched the all-new compact B-Class in both petrol and dies
Bollywood actor Poonam Pandey, gets relief as a local court in Bengaluru quashed a case pe
Automaker Renault India launched the new generation Duster priced at Rs 8.30 lakh (Delhi e
Now Bollywood A-list actors are competing to get nude on-screen.
The 2015 edition of the International Indian Film Academy Awards is set to enthrall Bollyw


India defeated Zimbabwe by six wickets chasing 288 runs target in World Cup Match.
Short filmmaker Ullhas PR on Monday filed a police complaint against Bollywood superstar A
This original video of the old man doing stunts behind the scene.

Tech giant Apple stunned its rivals by launching a cheaper yet powerful iPhone SE the “