2015-01~03
http://www.cairoscene.com/ViewArticle.aspx?AId=125357-Chinese-Muslim-Sentenced-6-Years-For-Beard

CairoScene


 Egypt's fluid and ever-evolving nightlife scene has undergone some serious shifts over the years, from lavish dos with glittering Go-go dancers to the rise of the underground. We speak to the men who made it all happen; the game changers who envisioned a nightlife scene worthy of the hangover.
 



 Artist Sayed Saad el Din opens his most recent exhibition, Circles in the Sand, and talks to our Sanabel al-Najjar about the art experience, the homeland, and the concept of the universal human being.
 



 Our photographer, Ahmed Najeeb, is always going on about how awesome his bike is, but apparently there are also a few things that royally suck about being a biker in Cairo.
 



 With two of the year's biggest movies having weirdly similar themes of dudes in their underwear beating each other up, resident Dark Lord of the Nerds Skot Thayer takes a look to see if there isn't something more going on. 
 

Romanian photographer Miheala Noroc, mostly known for her project 'The Atlas of Beauty', compiles beautiful and intimate images of women from the Middle East and North Africa Region. more
Style mavens Hadia Ghaleb and Nour Aboulela honour their mothers with some serious Bulgari bling. more
We all belong in some shella or another; whether you roar, squeal, or neigh, you are somewhere on this list. more
A constant topic of controversy in the country, homosexuals are stigmatised by both society and state. Mariam Raymone speaks to six gay Egyptian men about their experiences, relationships, and what it's like being gay in a society that often does not accept them. more
Another bridge in desperate need of maintenance collapses in Alexandria, leaving three dead and three others injured. more
Young entrepreneurial siblings Samira and Ahmed Negm were awarded second place at the world's leading mobile event in Barcelona. more
If you're a child at heart, then you'll definitely fall in love with this new trampoline park. Gravity Code, the adults of Egypt thank you. more
Never again will we be 15 minutes late for work because we couldn't find anywhere to park! Special thanks goes to Ahmed Zaki, big dreamer and Co-Founder of Rakna, a valet-on-demand app set to launch soon. more
Video of female Muslim scholar resurfaces amid Cologne sex attacks as she justifies the rape of non-Muslim women by Muslim men. more
Wondering how much it costs to get a good education? Take a look at this list. more
Another bridge in desperate need of maintenance collapses in Alexandria, leaving three dead and three others injured. more
It is everyone's dream at some point in life. Some don't make it, others do. Check out the 15 Egyptians who made it to Hollywood. more
Romanian photographer Miheala Noroc, mostly known for her project 'The Atlas of Beauty', compiles beautiful and intimate images of women from the Middle East and North Africa Region. more
Style mavens Hadia Ghaleb and Nour Aboulela honour their mothers with some serious Bulgari bling. more
Egypt proves to be a hit with artists, musicians, and craftsmen showcasing their work at the 50th edition of ITB Berlin, the world's biggest tourism fair. more
7ayatak kolaha ghalat; you don't eat enough, you don't wear enough layers, you don't help enough - but apparently that's what every Egyptian mother says to her children. We swear it's like they have a guidebook. more
In celebration of World Down's Syndrome Day, Rotaract Club of Alexandria Cosmopolitan is organising a fun day for children on March 25th at the Arab Academy for Science and Technology. more
Egypt's fluid and ever-evolving nightlife scene has undergone some serious shifts over the years, from lavish dos with glittering Go-go dancers to the rise of the underground. We speak to the men who made it all happen; the game changers who envisioned a nightlife scene worthy of the hangover. more
Baladini's baladi pizza is Cairo's finest pie, with rural talents, local ingredients, and Italian skill! more
American actor Danny Glover, most notable for starring in the Lethal Weapon movie series, visits Luxor to attend fifth Luxor African Film Festival. more
New Cairo's going to be a lot less boring this Saturday with the opening celebrations for Waterway's W Commercial Strip, that will be providing plenty of fun activities, a few surprises, and a whole lot to munch on. more
Cafés are great and all, but there's nothing better than a3dit el awha. more
INJAZ is partnering up with Tennra yet again to crowdfund thrilling initiatives for Startup 2016 using gaming! more
Encapsulating the pandemonium of Cairo is difficult to imagine. Just Cause 3 comes pretty close. If only we had a grappling hook and no consequences... more