2015-01~03
http://www.asiabulletin.com/index.php/sid/230894031

China’s new counterterrorism law could heighten human rights abuses - Asia Bulletin
A new counterterrorism law that will heighten surveillance in China is raising fresh concerns among human rights activists and in Washington.
The law, currently in draft form, requires technology companies doing business in China to surrender encryption codes, give backdoor security access to the Chinese government and retain data storage systems within China, The Washington Post reported Thursday.
Critics of the law pointed out that China is exploiting the threat of terrorism to increase its grip on all information.
Human Rights Watch has called the law a ';license to commit human rights abuses.';
The organisation also has stated the 106-article draft defines terrorism so broadly it could easily ';include peaceful dissent or criticism.';
President Barack Obama has expressed disapproval of the law’s overreaching powers to affect US technology companies and how they operate in China.
China’s official news agency said Obama’s objection was ';another piece of evidence of the arrogance and hypocrisy of US foreign policy,'; referring to the lack of due process in Guantanamo and increased US government power under the Patriot Act.
Human Rights Watch said the draft law was created in response to violence that has erupted in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in western China.
The Uyghurs are an ethnic Muslim minority. Uyghur attackers were blamed for a 2009 attack that killed several hundred people in Xinjiang.
In the previousfive to tenyears the number of science parks in Russia hasgrownrapidly. Officially, there are nowmore than 300.
Experts, however, saya large number exist on paper only. For example, they might justbe office buildings, and notcenters of technologicalinnovation and development that the country needs in these difficult times.
According to the Russian Association of Clusters and Science Parks, there are only about70 genuinefull-fledged science parks in Russia. Theseare places where tech entrepreneurs can receive the full spectrumof necessary support.
"A genuinescience park consists of laboratories, and organizeseducational andaccelerationevents, as well as providesupport for startups that want to reachinternational markets; but the majority of science parks in Russia are either industrial areasor just office buildings," Renat Batyrov, general directorof the Skolkovo Science Park, told RBTH. He points to the IT-park in Kazan,and the Novosibirsk Science Park as examples of trulysuccessful projects.
In thesetimes of economic crisis and shortage of financing Russian science parks can onlycount onstate support. Private domesticinvestors are tightening budgets, andforeign investors are blocked by sanctions.
"If the government decides to invest in science parks, it would be one of the most effective anti-crisis measures," saidthe RussianAssociation of Clusters and Science Parks in a statement. "This would help create new high-tech companies and new jobs. Scienceparkscreate favorable conditions for the development of new businesses."
According to the Russian Communications Ministry, most science parks specialize in the IT field. Other fields include medicine, biotech, nanotechnology, and the development of new materials. One more important sector for Russia is the oil and gas industry.
Russia's massive size has an impact on science parks' specializations and geographic orientation. Parks in the Far East and Siberiaare oriented moretowards collaboration with China, Japan and South Korea.
"Due to our proximity, wecan serve asa window to Asia for Russian tech companies," Anatoly Semenov, directorof the Yakutia Science Park inSiberia, told RBTH. Thispark alreadyhas joint projects with a South Korean bio-tech companyinChuncheon Province.
Science parks in Moscow, St. Petersburg and Kaliningrad feel a stronger tieto Europe.
"We are oriented moretowards Finland, the Czech Republic and those countries closest to St. Petersburg," said Alexander Koloustov, director of the science park at the St. Petersburg National Research University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics.
The type of businessoften influences cooperation with other countries. For example, French companies are interested in Russia's south with its proximity to the markets of Eastern Europe and its agro-industrial potential.
"Due to the presence of Renault in our city, we are actively developing automobile technologies; and many French citizenscurrently live in Togliatti," noted Alexei Kokotkin, deputy general director of the Zhigulevskaya Dolina Science Park, whichalso collaborates with France in the field of space technologies.
As far as the futureMr. Batyrov believes that thepseudo science parks operatinginoffice buildingswill eventually vanish. Geographical specialization will be preserved and will possibly become even more defined.
"Considering Russia's technological needs there should bea science parkin every city witha population over 500,000 people,'' saidBatyrov. "It'snecessary to coordinatethe best parks, andcreate information systems that will help residents find partners in other science parks at homeand abroad.''
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
Get the latest Asia Bulletin headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Asia Bulletin - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved