2015-01~03
http://www.haaretz.com/news/world/1.637350

China Arrests 10 Turkish Nationals Reportedly Helping Uighurs Flee - World - Haaretz - Israeli News Source Haaretz.com

 Nine members of Uighur Muslim minority arrested in November told investigators they paid 9688 dollars each to organize passages to Syria, Afghanistan and Pakistan.

Police in Shanghai detained 10 Turkish nationals involved in a plot to help ethnic Uighurs leave the country on forged documents, news reports said.

Two Chinese citizens were also arrested, the state-run Global Times newspaper reported Wednesday.

Nine Uighurs arrested in November reportedly told investigators they paid the group 60,000 yuan (9688 dollars) each to organize passages to Syria, Afghanistan and Pakistan.

One of the Uighur suspects was charged with spreading audio and video material "which incited ethnic enmity and discrimination in Xinjiang," according to the Global Times.

The Xinjiang autonomous region in China's far north-west has a history of discord between Beijing authorities and members of the nationally predominant Han people on one side, and the regionally indigenous, majority Muslim ethnic Uighur population.

Chinese authorities said last year Syria and Iraq had become training grounds for Uighur "terrorists."

Attacks in the Chinese region have claimed dozens of lives in the past year.

On Monday, police shot dead six suspected bombers in the region's Shule county near Kashgar after one man tried to attack a police officer with an axe and others tried to detonate explosives, according to state media.  

Want to enjoy 'Zen' reading - with no ads and just the article? Subscribe today
By adding a comment, I agree to this site’s Terms of use

 Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
 accordance with site policy.


 If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,
 please fill in your email address in the form below.


Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.
