2015-01~03
http://www.theepochtimes.com/n3/inspired/1228971-7-extremely-well-preserved-mummies-who-look-like-theyre-still-alive/

7 Extremely Well Preserved Mummies Who Look Like They're Still Alive
Mummies have been unearthed all over the world. It’ s common knowledge that mummies are often preserved by a form of embalming or through natural conditions—such as soil substances and climate that perfectly preserves a corpse. However, there are monks who voluntarily meditate for decades and as the years pass by, they become preserved as mummies. With these particular mummies, they’re preserved in such a perfect state and haven’t gone through the process of decomposition—even after 80+ years.
200 years old ‘meditating mummy’ found in Mongolia http://t.co/NNORpJkjjG pic.twitter.com/yy9yNUwRug
A mummified man found on January 27, 2015 in Songinokhairkhan, Mongolia. The mummy was found sitting in the lotus position—a meditative pose. It’s believed that the mummy is about 200-years-old and was found covered in cattle skin. It’s believed that the mummy found is that of Lama Dashi-Dorzho Itigilov. Lama Dashi-Dorzho Itigilov was born in 1852 and was Buryat Buddhist Lama of the Tibetan Buddhist tradition.
Capuchin monks of Palermo discovered naturally preserved bodies in the Capuchin Catacombs, located in Sicily, Italy. Among the mummies, was that of a 2-year-old girl named Rosalia Lombardo. Rosalia, also known as “Sleeping Beauty,” was placed in the catacombs when she died in 1920.
This woman died 3,800 years ago on the trade known as the Silk Road, in Loulan, located in western China. The woman and over 200 other mummies were preserved by the natural dryness and salty soil. Since these mummies were discovered in the Tarim Basin in China, the Chinese government has been reluctant to allow full access to the mummies because the mummies are caucasian—which affirms the claims of the local people—the Uyghur. The Uyghur look more like Europeans than Asians and claim they’re the original inhabitants of the area.
The little Inuit baby was discovered in Greenland and originally it was believed to be a doll. Soon after, they realized it was the body of a baby boy that might have died when he was about 6-months-old.
It’s believed that this man was hanged as a a sacrifice to the gods. He was placed in a peat bog where he remained naturally preserved for more than 2 millennia. He looks like he’s sleeping. His expression is peaceful and calm.
Lady of Dai, also known as the Diva Mummy, is one the best preserved mummies ever found. Objects found in her tomb suggests that she was a woman of importance and wealth. She has been preserved for 2,100-years, and was from the Western Han Dynasty.
You’ll also like this: 5 Historical Accounts Suggesting a Race of Giant Humans Once Existed
The body of Hambo Lama Itighelov—a spiritual leader of Russian Buddhists, was unearthed (upon his request before death) in 2002.