2015-01~03
http://www.dawn.com/news/1172707/uighur-man-jailed-in-china-for-six-years

Uighur man jailed in China for six years - Newspaper - DAWN.COM
BEIJING: A court in China’s mainly Muslim Xinjiang region has sentenced a man to six years in prison for “provoking trouble” and growing a beard, a practice discouraged bylocal authorities, a newspaper reported on Sunday.
The court in the desert oasis city of Kashgar sentenced the 38-year-old Uighur to six years, while his wife was given a two-year sentence, according to the China Youth Daily.
The man “had started growing his beard in 2010” while his wife “wore a veil hiding her face and a burqa”, the paper said. The couple were found guilty of “picking quarrels and provoking trouble”, a vague accusation regularly used in the Chinese judicial system.
For more than a year the authorities in Xinjiang have been campaigning against men growing beards — a practice officials associate with extremist ideas.
A campaign dubbed “Project Beauty” also encourages women to leave their heads bare and abandon wearing the veil, a relatively widespread practice among the Uighurs — the main Muslim ethnic group in Xinjiang.
The Kashgar couple had “received several warnings” before being charged, the newspaper reported, citing local officials.
On a mobile phone? Get the Dawn Mobile App: Apple Store | Google Play
If China controls world then this would be the standard.
All weather friend is incompatible to belief system.
We, the muslims, are responsible for it because the terrorists within us grow beards and intermingle with us. We too don't recognise them and believe them to be true believers. Chinese don't know much about Islam. They have just with their experience concluded that the bearded men and veiled women are dangerous. whereas the truth is otherwise.
My dear Pakistani friends... What to opine about this? It is China not India....!!
And if this happens in any other country the whole Pakistan will be protesting.
@Mansoor - Don't give Chineses excuses. They are extremely smart and they know what they are doing. Pakistan - Chinese's relationships are just one sided friendship. If this was done by India than you would have made a big deal.
Don't be a hypocrite and go start a protest again China!
They don't treat Muslims with respect and you still think they are really Pakistan's friend.
i dont think it is because of beard he has grown... there might be some other story ! i have faith in Chinese judicial system. ! they were the cause of quarrels !!
Waiting to see the protest march this Friday against china by the moulvis
Will Pakistani people stand by there Muslim brothers in China
The brotherly love........How long will it take for Pakistanis to realize that the only reasons China loves you are 1) Access to the continent of Africa for their untapped resources (via Arabian ocean) 2) Your valuable minerals and ores which you sell them at cheap price
I strongly condemn this "punishment". Where is all the humanity?
@Mansoor Forget China even we Muslims have become terribly habitual of entitling terrorists to every-other beard Muslim without any fundamental evident evidence?
@Hms China is not only the friend of Pakistan but also of so many other Muslim counties on the face of earth. So what a satire about your comments?
This is the other extreme of the extremism - both of which are condemnable.
@From India Who are you to ask about our friendship with china? I think you want to groom yourself and then ask about our friendship. You can ask from your military about Pak-China !!! then you should realize why you are so nervous from our friendship!!
Pakistan is indeed the all weather friend of China. Only in such friendship which is taller than Himalaya, deeper than oceans and sweeter than honey that people ignore such "minor" irritants.
China jails a Muslim for growing beard. And China is our best friend? 
Are we not supporting those who are clearly anti-Islam?
China can't afford to be so rigid given her aspirations of global dominance. Banning, turban, beard or a cross could only breed hatred, which is bound to backfire at some stage.
so called friends i would say friends for benefits ONLY
@Mansoor it is against the most basic human right to practice his religion without hurting anyone
Own country or country of residence law must be followed.
@From India 
True, and to control Indian dominance in the region
They put a guy in jail for growing a beard and his wife for wearing the hijab? The global super-power China got scared of a Muslim's guys beard…a guy with no criminal past and no terrorist leanings? Well done, China. Please throw the kids in prison for wearing a skull cap, next. Height of paranoia, Sir.
@Ample Reverence For Saudi Arab & Pak Army : if i say china is friend of pak , it does not mean that other Muslim countries are enemies. Here contest is pak and china why u taking 3rd country ?
I imagine the Iranian Ayatollahs will discuss this with Chinese officials in up coming arm sale meeting?
It's amusing how Indian trolls keep clumsily relating a decision made in China to Pakistan. Their all out efforts are to get some sort of remarks from Pakistanis which would be against China . Dear trolls , being a "friend" does not mean than Pakistan approves any and every thing China does . What China has done is it's internal matter. Such incidents are an exception in China and not the rule like they are in some European countries ( the next tactic you trolls use ). To wrap it up , China is and will always be our all weather friend ( just like India is and will always remain our enemy).
The local law does not allow Muslims to grow beards which thins guy did. Chinese go by the law not emotion. Law is broken, then punishment is handed out.
China has been facing insurgency of Muslims in East Turkestan for decades. These people are trying to break the country which China will never allow. No religion is above the law in China. Bearded Muslims are trying to stand out from the other citizens by looking and dressing differently, their intentions are to break China.
@Sunil Dear troll , if you want to drive a wedge between Pakistan and China, at least be a little more creative about it. It's almost like you Indians are copy - pasting each others' comments. How utterly boring and childish. I read Dawn specifically to be amused by the amusing Indian theatrics, please don't disappoint us Pakistanis by providing such low grade entertainment :-)

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
