2015-01~03
http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/News-of-the-day-from-across-the-globe-Jan-13-6010363.php

News of the day from across the globe, Jan. 13 - SFGate

1 Iraq attack: A suicide car bomb killed 12 Shiite militiamen and Iraqi soldiers Monday in a town 80 miles north of Baghdad, authorities said, sparking a battle between security forces and fighters with the extremist Islamic State group. The bomber rammed his explosive-laden car into a gathering of soldiers and Shiite fighters in Abasiyat, just south of Tikrit. Clashes between Iraqi security forces and militants from the Islamic State group erupted immediately after the attack, police said, though the extremists did not immediately claim responsibility for the bombing.

2 Mexico vigilantes: Five members of a vigilante-style community police force were killed in an ambush in western Mexico, authorities and members of the group said. Luz Sandoval, a member of the “community police” movement in the Michoacan state mountain town of Aquila, said Monday that 13 members of the group were on patrol when they were attacked Sunday. The area had long been dominated by the Knights Templar drug cartel, until armed civilians rose up in 2013 in a vigilante movement to fight it.

3 Afghanistan politics: After months of delays and missed deadlines, the Afghan government on Monday finally unveiled its full list of Cabinet nominees, ending an extended period of public uncertainty and anxiety in the war-torn nation. Abdul Salaam Rahimi, chief of staff for President Ashraf Ghani, announced the list of 25 Cabinet nominees, as well as nominees for director of the Afghan intelligence service and governor of the Central Bank. All nominees must now receive approval from the parliament.

4 Poisoned beer: Authorities in Mozambique said Monday that the number of people who died after drinking contaminated beer has risen to 69. At least 196 others have been admitted to hospitals in northeastern Tete province. Pombe, a traditional Mozambican beer, is made from millet or corn flour. The exact source of the contamination is still unknown, but authorities believe the drink was poisoned with crocodile bile during the course of a funeral on Saturday. Police are investigating.

5 China unrest: Chinese police shot and killed six would-be bombers Monday in the town of Shule in the latest violence to strike the restive far northwestern region of Xinjiang, officials said. At least 400 people have been killed in and outside the region over the past two years in violence China blames on radicals among Xinjiang’s native Uighur ethnic group. Homemade explosive devices have often featured in the violence.

6 AirAsia search: Divers retrieved the crashed AirAsia plane’s second black box from the bottom of the Java Sea on Tuesday, giving investigators essential tools to figure out what brought Flight 8501 down Dec. 28. The cockpit voice recorder was freed from beneath the heavy ruins of a wing early in the morning about 100 feet deep, a day after the flight data recorder was recovered, said Tonny Budiono, sea navigation director at the Transportation Ministry. The device will be flown to Jakarta for analysis.