2015-01~03
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2015/01/14/china-requires-ids-for-fireworks-in-troubled-northwest/

China Requires IDs for Fireworks in Troubled Northwest - China Real Time Report - WSJ
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit http://www.djreprints.com.
If you’re planning a crackling Spring Festival celebration in China’s restive Xinjiang region, prepare to be carded at the fireworks store.
Under rules to be rolled out before the Lunar New Year in February, people in the western border region must provide their real names and IDs when buying fireworks and firecrackers, the official Xinhua News Agency said late Tuesday.
“The move is meant to reduce safety risks caused by illegal firework outlets and poor quality fireworks on the market, and to prevent terrorists from obtaining raw materials to make explosive devices,” Xinhua said, citing an official at Xinjiang’s work safety department.
Authorities will also require all fireworks stores to implement tracking systems to trace transactions by type and quantity of fireworks sold to individual buyers, the agency said. The region-wide regulation comes after Urumqi, Xinjiang’s capital, implemented the real-name regime for fireworks sales last year, it added.
Fireworks and firecrackers are popular in China for marking seasonal festivities, particularly the Lunar New Year, or Spring Festival, which falls on Feb. 19 this year. Firework sales in Urumqi will begin on Feb. 4, while other parts of the region would commence sales at different times, Xinhua said.
The expanded rules add to a series of steps taken by Xinjiang authorities in the past year to curb what they say is rising violence from a separatist movement led by some Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking and mainly Muslim ethnic group in the region. Dozens have died in separate attacks in Xinjiang over the past year, in violence blamed on Uighur radicals.
This week, officials said police shot and killed six alleged bombers in Xinjiang’s Shule country, without identifying the suspects, according to Tianshan, the regional government’s web portal. In September, a series of blasts and a subsequent police crackdown against alleged terrorists in the region left at least 50 people dead, state media said at the time.
In September, Urumqi authorities started offering cash rewards of up to 1 million Chinese yuan (about $161,400) for anyone who tips off local authorities about suspicious activity linked to terrorism and religious extremism. In April, the state-run Global Times reported that Xinjiang’s Shaya county was offering rewards to people who supply information about “potential hazards to society,” such as by reporting on neighbors wearing beards or conducting “illegal religious activities.”
After deadly attacks last spring, the government also declared a security clampdown that has resulted in detentions of large numbers of people, the posting of checkpoints across roadways in Xinjiang and stepped-up patrols by armed police, according to state media reports.
Some of these measures, however, have drawn criticism from rights and Uighur advocacy groups for making Uighurs feel marginalized and for exacerbating tensions between them and Han Chinese, who have migrated into the region in large numbers in recent decades.
Wall Street’s Former Top Woman Tells Her Side of Lehman’s Collapse
Prison Guards Are Hard to Capture as Jobless Rates Fall
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.