2015-01~03
http://www.scmp.com/comment/insight-opinion/article/1691817/world-must-work-together-defeat-islamic-state-and-other

World must work together to defeat Islamic State and other terrorists | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
China faces no less a threat from Muslim extremists fighting for Islamic State in Syria and Iraq than France, Britain and other Western nations. More than 300 ethnic Uygurs from Xinjiang are believed to be among their ranks, learning elite combat tactics and skills that will dramatically heighten a separatist campaign in the autonomous region should they return. Preventing their free movement in and out of the country will dash plans to sow terror, but long borders and smuggling gangs make for a challenging mix. As essential as stepped-up vigilance, intelligence and policing is greater cooperation with overseas security organisations and governments.
The extent of the threat has been increasingly evident in the number of Uygurs intercepted trying to illegally cross borders. A security ministry task force on human smuggling in the southwest has uncovered 262 cases since May. In the latest, police in Guangxi province fired on three men fleeing to Vietnam, killing two; the third escaped. A criminal ring was broken in Shanghai in November when 10 Turks were arrested for trying to smuggle nine Uygurs on fake Turkish passports.
Their eagerness to go to Islamist hot spots is understandable given the tough anti-terror campaign under way in Xinjiang. In overseas conflict zones, they can make contact with networks of Islamists who can supply weapons, train for insurgencies, become battle-hardened and gain ideological and logistical support. They can learn about organisation - vital in light of the fractious nature of their movement. On returning, Chinese police and security forces will find them primed to fight.
Attacks across Xinjiang and in Tiananmen Square and at railway stations in Kunming and Guangzhou show the determination of the separatists. But despite the hundreds of innocent lives taken, there is not wholehearted support in some countries for anti-terror efforts. Some governments and rights groups claim the spectre of terrorism is being used as a pretext to intensify a crackdown on the Uygur population. Restrictions on journalists in Xinjiang curb the flow of information; greater transparency would increase understanding.
The fight is not just China's, though; Islamic State warriors and other jihadis, driven by religious extremism, are threatening global peace and stability. Only by working together can governments stop the spread of their dangerous ideology and prevent their deadly activities.