2015-01~03
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/230719531

China Seeks Cooperation Against the Movement of Turkestan - China National News
Beijing, Mar 2 (Prensa Latina) The confrontation with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, one of the terrorist groups responsible for major attacks in China in 2014, was a relevant topic today at the opening session of the Chinese advisory body, said a spokesman. According to spokesman Lyu Xinhua, which is responsible for providing the press with details of the meeting, the participants expressed the importance that the fight against the ETIM, acronyms with which the group identifies itself, figures prominently when China cooperates with other countries in this field. The matter was discussed at the first session of the People's Political Consultative Conference (PPCC) in 2015, which begins the day after the terrorist attack a year ago that took place at the railway station of Kunming, where 31 people died and 141 received wounds. That attack in the southwestern province of Yunnan, along with the assault that occurred last May at a market in Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang Uygur, killing 30 and wounding 91, were claimed by the ETIM, along with the aggression in the vicinity of the Tiananmen Square. In October 2013 a car loaded with fuel launched into the crowd waiting outside the Plaza to enter the former Imperial Palace, nowadays a museum, and caused four deaths and several wounded. The three suspects on board the vehicle were killed in the attack. Analysts in Beijing highlighted the increasing violence and terrorism in China in recent years, and that most of these acts have ha...
Kunshan (China), March 21 (IANS) India were placed in a relatively easy group in the women's section but the men's team did not prove to be as lucky at the draw for the prestigious Thomas and Uber Cup Finals badminton tournament that was held here on Monday.
In the men's section -- the Thomas Cup -- the Indian team have been drawn along with 13-times winners Indonesia and strong contenders Thailand and Hong Kong China in Group B.
The women's team have been placed in Group D of the Uber Cup alongside Japan -- the runners-up in the last edition in 2014 -- Australia and Germany.
The tournament will be held here in Kunshan from May 15-22.
Meanwhile, Thomas Cup defending champions Japan and top seeds China found themselves in the same group as the draw. The two powerhouses were drawn in Group A alongside France and Mexico, ensuring that the starting stage of the finals itself should be an intensely competitive affair.
Second seeds Denmark, in Group D, were drawn along with Chinese Taipei, New Zealand and South Africa while Group C has South Korea, Malaysia, England and Germany.
In the Uber Cup competition, hosts and defending champions China will have to contend with European power Denmark in Group A. Their group-mates are Spain and Malaysia.
Group B consists of Korea, Chinese Taipei, Mauritius and USA, while Group C has Thailand, Indonesia, Bulgaria and Hong Kong China.
Sixteen teams each in the Thomas Cup and Uber Cup qualified for the final rounds based on their performance in the continental team championships and team rankings. The No.1 and No.2 seeded teams were separated in the draw by placing them at the top of Group A and Group D respectively. The other teams and corresponding group positions were then picked by the invited dignitaries.
The top two teams in each group will make it to the knockout stages. There will be another draw for the quarter-finals.

UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved