2015-01~03
http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/turkey-china-wrangle-over-suspected-uighurs-detained-in-thai-115032400880_1.html

Turkey-China wrangle over suspected Uighurs detained in Thai | Business Standard News


 AFP  | 
 Bangkok  

March 24, 2015 Last Updated at 19:22 IST


 A family of suspected Uighur Muslims, among hundreds detained in Thailand since last year, will Friday learn their fate in a court case that has sparked a diplomatic wrangle between Turkey and China. Both countries are seeking the repatriation of the family, who use the surname Teklimakan and claim they are Turkish. They were detained by Thai police in March 2014 after illegally entering the country along its eastern border with Cambodia. That same month dozens of migrants also thought to be from China's mostly Muslim Uighur minority were discovered during a raid on a suspected people-smuggling camp in the kingdom's deep south and sentenced for illegal entry. They similarly presented themselves to police as Turkish. The 17 Teklimakan family members - including 13 children of whom two were born in custody - were issued passports by the Turkish embassy while in detention. But China has insisted they are Uighurs from its restive northwest region of Xinjiang. During a hearing at the Southern Bangkok Criminal Court today, attended by both Turkish and Chinese officials, a judge said the case was "related to (international) relations", and a decision on whether or not to release the family would be made Friday. Uighurs, who number around 10 million in China's violence-racked Xinjiang region, are a Turkic-speaking ethnic minority who have long chafed under Chinese control. Responding to pressure from Beijing, countries including Cambodia, Malaysia and Pakistan have all in recent years forcibly returned fleeing Uighurs to China. At today's hearing Ahmet Idem Akay, first counsellor for the Turkish Embassy, told AFP the Teklimakan family were Turkish citizens. Chinese officials at the hearing refused to comment. There are 355 Uighurs currently detained in Thailand, police Lieutenant Colonel Jitti Sangthong from Thailand's immigration bureau told the court. He said both the Chinese and Turkish embassies had been asked to help establish the family's nationality. The decision on whether or not to release the Teklimakans could have important implications for the other Uighurs detained in Thailand.
Import dependence has, however, risen since then to 78.5% in 2014-15 when India imported 189.4 million tonnes of crude ...
However, inflows remain robust in despite a 6.5% crack in key stock indices
Copyrights © 2015 Business Standard Private Ltd. All rights reserved.