2015-01~03
http://unpo.org/article/17845

UNPO: East Turkestan: US State Department Criticizes Beijing for Harassing Uyghur Award-Winning Journalist
Award-winning journalist, Mr Shohret Hoshur, is one of the last reporters writing in the Uyghur language about discrimination and oppression carried out by Chinese authorities in East Turkestan. His three brothers living in the region have been detained, two of them without formal charges. Hoshur states that these measures are an attempt to silence his reporting on major human rights abuses in East Turkestan. 
The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists has said Chinese authorities have detained two brothers of a Uighur reporter living in the United States.
A fourth brother was sentenced to five years in prison in 2014 for violating state security laws, the group said.
"We're deeply concerned by reports that family members of the Radio Free Asia journalist Shohret Hoshur continue to be harassed, including reports that his brothers have been imprisoned, apparently in retribution for his reporting," U.S. State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said on Thursday [8 January 2015].
"I believe the relevant report is completely inconsistent with reality and not worth refuting," Hong told a Friday briefing.
China has also punished 17 officials for lapses in connection with explosions and riots in the East Turkestan region (Xinjiang) in September, state media said, as the regional Communist Party boss said the fight against "terrorism" was getting "more intense".
Dozens of people were killed in East Turkestan in the violence which began when explosions killed six people. Riots followed the blasts and police shot dead 40 people, some of whom were trying to blow themselves up, state media said at the time.
It was one of several violent incidents that have rocked the region in recent years. The government has blamed the trouble on "separatists" from the Uighur ethnic minority, most of whom are Muslim.
It is difficult for foreign journalists to report in East Turkestan, making it almost impossible to reach an independent assessment of the security situation.
After an investigation into the Sept. 21 violence, Xinjiang's Communist Party committee gave 17 officials "party and government disciplinary" punishment for security and other lapses, the www.ts.cn news site, which is run by the committee, said late on Thursday [8 January 2015].
Zhang Chunxian, Xinjiang's party secretary, said the security situation was "extremely grim".
Human rights activists say repressive government policies in East Turkestan, including curbs on religion and culture, as well as economic and social problems have provoked unrest.

 Telephone: +32 (0) 251 31459
 Fax: +32 (0) 251 31495 
 Email: unpo@unpo.org 
 © 2010-2014 UNPO | Webdesign: IBIS Services

 Laan van Meerdervoort 70
 2517 AN The Hague
 The Netherlands
