2014-01~03
http://bigdogdotcom.wordpress.com/2014/03/16/international-crisis-management-team-for-mh370/

International Crisis Management Team for MH370? | The "thirteen million plus Ringgit" guy rambles....
Yesterday afternoon, Prime Minister Dato’ Sri Mohd. Najib Tun Razak gave the media conference about “Transponder and ACARS are switched of and hijacked”  and “Inmarsat picked up ‘pings’ as of 0811hrs”, which summed up the latest development of the missing B777-200 with tail no. 9M-MRO designated as MH370 KUL-PEK on 8 March 2014.
Read more: MISSING MH370: Summary of PM’s statement – Latest – New Straits Timeshttp://www.nst.com.my/latest/font-color-red-missing-mh370-font-summary-of-pm-s-statement-1.514433#ixzz2w4Kdi1ZN
The whole week, there has been a roller coaster ride of what seemingly to many as ‘Contradicting points and statements’, which added to the anxiety, confusion and compounding the complication to the flow of information to the public at large. Worse still, to the international community.
The actual fact is that media, especially internationally based, are playing up stories based on unconfirmed reports and their counterparts attending the daily media conferences by either Transport Minister Dato’ Seri Hishamuddin Hussein, DG of DCA Dato’ Azharuddin Abdul Rahman or Armed Forces Chief Jen Tan Sri Zulkifli Md Zain or RMAF Chief Jen. Tan Sri Rodzali Daud TUDM and they are pushing their stories as the truth.
Example is the satellite report from China story, as reported by the Malay Mail:
BY ZURAIRI ARMARCH 13, 2014UPDATED: MARCH 13, 2014 07:44 PM
DCA chief Datuk Azharuddin Abdul Rahman, Datuk Seri Hishammuddin Hussein and MAS CEO Ahmad Jauhari Yahya at a press conference on MH370 today at KLIA in Sepang, on March 13, 2014. — Picture by Choo Choy May
SEPANG, March 13 — China has confirmed that the publication of the satellite image allegedly showing possible signs of MH370 in the sea had been sent by accident, Datuk Seri Hishammuddin Hussein said today.
The Defence and acting Transport Minister told a press conference here that Putrajaya had received a note on the matter from China’s Ambassador to Malaysia Dr Huang Huikang.
“We have contacted the Chinese embassy who notified us this afternoon that the images were released by mistake, and did not show any debris from MH370,” Hishammuddin said.
He later read out from Huang’s note, which said that the Chinese government “neither authorises nor endorses this behaviour, which is now under investigation.”
Late yesterday, China’s State Administration for Science, Technology and Industry for National Defence (SASTIND) released three pictures showing large floating objects in the South China Sea, which was suspected to be from the missing MH370 aircraft.
According to a report on SASTIND’s website, the images showed pieces as large as 24 metres by 22 metres, and were taken on March 9, a day after the Boeing 777 aircraft fell off the radar.
Hishammuddin said a Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency (MMEA) surveillance plane was dispatched this morning to investigate the potential debris but “found nothing”.
He slammed the media today for reporting China’s satellite image, which he said had slowed down search efforts.
The media frenzy over the satellite images was the latest in a series of false signals given to the multi-national search team that has been combing 93,000 square kilometres, an area the size of Hungary, for the Boeing 777-200ER.
Images from Chinese satellite on March 9 shows an object that might be possibly debris from MH370. China’s Ambassador to Malaysia Dr Huang Huikang today confirmed that these images had been sent by accident and did not show any debris. — Today pic
This report by Chinese media based on photocs obtained by a Chinese satellite is an example how information which was not processed by the co-ordinating agency which is the Malaysian DCA, could provide false hope to many of the families of the 239 souls onboard.
Everyday, the media conferences provide the latest information which has been corroborated with the relevant Malaysian and international agencies and these updates supersede previously released information or statements, made which were thought the best available information at the point of time.
The fact is that the Transport Minister, DG of DCA, CEO of Malaysia Airlines, Chief of the Armed Forces, Chief of the Air Force, Chief of the MMEA and other relevant agency heads meet and communicate very regularly. They also consult domestic and international security and intelligence agencies and transport authorities such as FAA, NTSB and corporations like Boeing and Rolls Royce on the latest available information.
Then, they would processed whats the latest available and share it with their now globally famous daily media conferences.
If these statements and information are taken piece-meal, they may look incongruent and not in-synced and probably some contradict each Heads of agency’s information. However, if they are plotted into the big picture it would make more sense.
Example is when the IGP and DG of Immigration met the media a few days ago. Both of them talk about their different area of operations but some of it over lapped, which was about the two Iranians who used stolen European passport to get into Europe via China. Neither is believed to be members of terrorist organisations.
The Guardian UK, summing up the week long statements and information:
Why did it take so long before anyone realised the plane was missing? 
It didn’t. Malaysia’s acting transport minister, Hishammuddin Hussein, has confirmed that the plane ceased communicating with ground control about 40 minutes into its flight to Beijing, but this information was not made public for many hours. Malaysia has faced accusations of not sharing all of its information or suspicions about the plane’s final movements. It, however, says it would be irresponsible to narrow the focus of the search until there is firm evidence of the plane’s flight path. Malaysia’s reluctance to go public with the news that one of its planes had vanished is perhaps understandable. The disappearance of the Boeing 777 – one of the safest commercial jets in service – is one of the most baffling in aviation history. It is extremely rare for a modern passenger aircraft to disappear once it has reached cruising altitude.
Why did no one see the plane veering so far off course? 
They did. The New York Times, quoting American officials and others close to the investigation, said radar signals recorded by the Malaysian military appeared to show the airliner climbing to 45,000ft, higher than a Boeing 777’s approved limit, soon after its disappearance from civilian radar, then making a sharp turn to the west. The radar tracking then shows the plane descending unevenly to 23,000ft, below normal cruising levels, before climbing again and flying north-west towards the Indian Ocean. What the military did with this information is not known.
Why this flight?
Here we enter the realm of wild speculation: the internet is awash with theories. It could be that Malaysia was geographically convenient. Some suggest that, if it is a hijack, it is probably the work of Uighur separatists in Xinjiang, western China, or Islamic terrorists. On 1 March attackers armed with knives killed at least 29 people and injured more than 100 in Kunming station in southern China. Chinese authorities and state media were quick to describe this as a terror attack by Uighurs in their “jihad”. Hijacking a plane would be by far their most spectacular achievement. The plane had fuel to get as far north as Kazakhstan, according to some experts, which means it could have been flown to Pakistan or Afghanistan. However, given that the jet was not detected by these two militarised countries, this seems unlikely. Some say a flight from Malaysia to China was a softer target than, say, a transatlantic flight, but there is little evidence for this. There are, say pilots, many softer targets.
Why are the pilots’ homes being searched only now?
This does raise questions about Malaysia’s handling of the situation. The lengthy delay appears to bolster criticism that Malaysia has been ineffective in this crisis. Numerous false sightings of wreckage may have convinced the authorities that they were dealing with a disaster, not terrorism, which could explain why they did not immediately search the men’s homes.
Why did Vietnam not raise the alarm? 
Once an aircraft is more than 150 miles out to sea, radar coverage fades and crews keep in touch with air traffic control and other aircraft by high-frequency radio. About 40 minutes in, the flight was still the “property” of Malaysian air traffic control, which we know made contact with the plane just minutes before it disappeared. All seemed fine as the pilot reported “all right, good night”. This last verbal communication came at the boundary between Malaysian and Vietnamese airspace. Malaysian air traffic control told the pilots the flight was being passed to Ho Chi Minh control. The Vietnamese authorities may never have assumed responsibility for the plane as it never entered their airspace. This would be consistent with where the search has now moved to.

How do investigators know the communications systems were shut off and did not just go wrong? 
This is based on information from the Malaysian authorities who, admittedly, have given contradictory reports. The prime minister, Najib Razak, said investigators now had a “high degree of certainty” that one of the plane’s communications systems, the aircraft and communications addressing and reporting system (Acars), was disabled before the aircraft reached the east coast of Malaysia. Shortly afterwards, someone on board switched off the aircraft’s transponder, which communicates with civilian air traffic control.
How do we know the plane flew on after the transponder was switched off?
Routine, automated signals from the aircraft – known as electronic handshakes or pings – registered on the Inmarsat satellite network. MH370’s last ping suggested it was in one of two flight corridors: one between Thailand and Kazakhstan, and another between Indonesia and the southern Indian Ocean. The last confirmed communication was made at 08:11, which would indicate that the Boeing continued flying for nearly seven hours after contact was lost. As a result, its location will be extremely difficult to pinpoint quickly. Without further radar/satellite/eye-witness testimony, say experts, it is very much like looking for a needle in a haystack. A source familiar with US assessments of the Inmarsat satellite pings said it appeared the plane turned south over the Indian Ocean, where it would presumably have run out of fuel and crashed into the sea.
Yesterday, Transport Minister Hishamuddin almost snarled at the foreign media about ‘Speculating on unconfirmed reports’, especially at their end.
It is a very stressful situation and circumstance to handle, but so far the information made available daily to the public via all of the media conferences shed a bit of light and rather systematic, considering that the search for the missing B777-200, 239 souls onboard and what actually happened spirally deeper from ‘looking for a needle in the haystack’ to literally ‘looking for a drop of colour in the ocean’.
Prime Minister Najib’s media conference confirmed that Inmarsat picked up pings transmitted by one of the redundant communication system onboard the B777-200 9M-MRO at 0811hrs on 8 March 2014, six hours after the last time the RMAF Air Defence Radar tracked the 260MTOW jetliner 200 nautical miles north west of Pulau Perak.
The Inmarsat arch of the probable route of the missing B777-200
It means that there is a high possibility the aircraft was still on air, maximising the what is left on the tanks of B777-200 which was designed to reach Western Europe from KUL.
What ever the information that arise from this new revelation is no different on how it was shared to the public via the media corp, camped at the Sama Sama Hotel in KLIA. Transport Minister Hishamuddin, DG of DCA Azharuddin and the services Chiefs would update on their latest available information, after deliberation amongst themselves and corroborated with the corresponding international agencies.
Deputy DG of MMEA, GCEO of MAS, DG of DCA, Chief of MAF and Panglima for Air Defence Corp in an MH370 media conference
It is believed that an International Crisis Management Team has been formed since a few days ago. American consultants now sit inside what originally was a Crisis Management Team comprises of Chiefs if not very senior officials from MOT, DCA, MAF, RMAF, RMN, RMP, MMEA, MKN and MAS.
The roles and objective of these American consultants are not clear. Whether they are sophisticated public relation specialists or intelligent services agents disguised as PR consultants, have not been ascertained nor their presence in these daily meetings have been confirmed.
What is certain is that if there are foreigners present in these meetings which discuss in details of the operation to search for the missing B777-200 and they have access to classified information and documents, then some sensitive information on operations, procedures, control, protocol and even command of Malaysian Armed Forces (MAF) and related services and agencies are or have been compromised.
This is must be unacceptable, in so many counts and at so many angles.
If there is any truth in this, then the Malaysian public would want to know which idiot or bunch of idiots made this decision to include and authorise these ‘American consultants’ to be part of the Crisis Management Team.
This is nothing new nor surprising. PMO’s been engaging the APCO boys for the past three years. I think they’re permanently camped at PMO.
In the mumbo-jumbo days of the shortlived NCT media circus three-ring-clown act, they had permanent Brits complimentary from Tony Blair camped under the Big Top at BSC.
I’m not sure how these Anglo-Saxons brought productivity and progress to the government but what I’m almost certain, its part of the act to make Najib the Felinist as a celebrity head of government like President Obama i.e. Populist!
Notice how sharply dressed the PM was at the PC yesterday?
First, I want to talk about China’s role in this matter.
Let’s face it: China’s acts and utterances in this episode have been very disappointing. They contribute a lot to the confusion, even caused parts of it, as in the case of the (a) initial “non-release” of the bloody satellite images, (b) later releasing them (allegedly by CCTV USA, a government agency of China) causing our Investigation Team to scurry around getting assets to search the area concerned in the South China Sea, and (c) finally saying it was a mistake on their part – having, in the process, made our team appear ding-donging on that part of the search and exploited by sensation news reporting, twisting and spinning, both locally and internationally.
Then China’s bloody Ministry of Transport official was reported “demanding” that Malaysia speed up the search, and the damn Hsin Hua, the Chinese national news agency, making scathing remarks against us, the relatives of the 154 Chinese passengers even throwing bottles at the Malaysian counsellors flown to Beijing by MAS to comfort and counsel them in their hour of anxiousness and anxiety, and now appearing to be the usual DAP-like ungrateful ingrates, exploiting every situation they can find, some talking about compensation when MAS could only talk about financial assistance at this stage as the cause of the aircraft disappearance is not yet known.. I say: despite the predicament of the relatives, damn them and the practically irresponsible Chinese government.
Finger pointing? Plausible deniability? The “it’s not our fault, somebody else did it” syndrome?
Get real. The Boeing 777-200 is a Malaysian-flagged and Malaysian-registered aircraft. It is owned by a Malaysian-listed company which is majority-owned by a Malaysian government SWF. The aircraft was operated by Malaysians, crewed by Malaysians and, presumably, serviced by Malaysians and security-cleared by Malaysians.
So, where does the buck stop? In China? In the US? With Boeing and Rolls-Royce? With the FBI, CIA or NSA? Or, hey, with Mossad (let’s cover all the bases here)?
By some quirk of fate, a large number of the passengers on MH370 are Chinese nationals.
And you expect, nay demand, that the Chinese government and media “go easy” on Malaysia because, hey, it’s trying it’s best and it can only do so much, and that all on it’s case should be more understanding.
I don’t think that the Chinese government and media is going to back off in order to assuage the easily bruised sensitivities of some Malaysians who are only too willing to play the “nationalist card” when put on the spot.
Anybody cares if YOU don’t think that the Chinese government and media is going to back off? Who are you, anyway?
Has the Chinese government and media ever backed off after millions of Chinese in China demonstrated against Beijing, say, when they tried to enforce the use of Mandarin, its official language, on the their citizens, especially in southern China where your ancestors came from?
And what “nationalist card” are you talking about? Are you a Malaysian? If you are, have you heard such words as “loyalty”, “patriotism” and “defending your country” ? If not, what the hell are you doing here? And you are not glorifying Singapore today?
You small-brained? Has anybody denied Malaysia’s responsibility in finding MH370? Blind or deaf in not reading CNN captions on TV screens or printed media reports on Hishamuddin saying information will not be released until after it has been verified so as to avoid confusion, twisting and spinning?
You like twisting and spinning? Warped mind, did somebody say?
The China govt doesn’t seem to be deeply involved in the SAR considering the big number of its citizens on board the ill-fated plane. Why did they let US-UK to lead the investigation?
Don’t they have experts in aviation that can contribute as well. Malaysia being desperate would of course, welcome just about anyone to help.
But one country which usually is among the first to come and help in crisis like this – France – seems to be dragging its feet in this incidence. Even now, they just offer to help if we request.
Why?
Do they know that this is not a crash?
When our RMAF aircraft went down in Bario and also not found for many days, they were here to help. They were among the first that came during the Highland Towers tragedy.
But not this time.
Why?
I’m more worried now because PM said, he has ordered ALL agencies involved to SHARE any information with the investigation team (US/UK team).
I really really hope somebody will be bold enough to set up our very own investigation team. I believe we have the expertise.
It appears to me that Najib’s “consultanization” of this country has, prior to the MH370 disappearance, been for the purpose of his “transformation programme” which was not well received among the bureaucracy because of his liberalization policies that placed the NEP, the rights and interests of the Malays on the back burner. Najib had to appoint a Ketua Setiausaha Negara a possibly “liberal” PTD Officer who was several places below in seniority, breaking 100+ year-old tradition and to the chagrin of thousands of Officers whose role has all along been the “implementors of government policies”. Hence, alternative units were set up in the PM’s Dept, so-called consultants were engaged on full time basis, with roles and functions that may overlap those of the long-established Economic Planning Unit. Apart from pushing through Najib’s transformation programme, they also serve as vehicles for the influencing of, if not the actual award of projects, hence increasing corruption. Those are detestable.
As regards finding MH370, consultation and co-operation with foreign countries there must be. But surely not necessary in an International Crisis Management Team, if the primary objective is for countering allegations of confusion, inefficiency etc. Blokes in the opposition, and the local as well as foreign news media, will always find issues to sensationalize. Not just the British 2 sen tabloids, also the usually respectable ones get carried away by the false sense of lack of information. But how can information be given if it has not been verified or is classified secret? They thrashed our Investigation team even after being told that data sensitive to our national interest (presumably relating to the level of sophistication of our radar) had been released in deference to the uppermost priority of finding MH370. Hell, they are unreasonable, those bastards.
Even if the International Crisis Management Team is primarily for the purpose of finding MH370, there must be limits to the exposure of highly sensitive information to foreign “experts” in the team, some of whom will probably be full-time Intelligence operatives, or not so but will report the relevant information gained to their countries’ intelligence organizations. Our military radar sophistication and capabilities will certainly be of interest to foreign countries, even the friendly ones.
Yes, Intelligence buggers can still get such information from the foreign suppliers of the equipment, but surely our own people are the ones who do the configuration needed for our own defence requirements. No other way but to re-configure them, if not purchase and deploy a totally new radar system after the MH370 matter has been resolved. Otherwise we might find dozens of Chinese fighter jets from the disputed islands in the South China Sea, fitted with counter-Malaysian radar detection devices, being able to penetrate our air space and dancing 10 miles from our shores, instead of being detected and “scrambled to” by our MAF fighter jets, 150 miles away.
Indian air traffic controllers guild secretary Sugata Pramanik said that while flight MH370 could have avoided detection on the secondary surveillance radar, the blip sent out by the huge Boeing 777-200ER would surely be spotted by the Indian Air Force (IAF) that uses primary surveillance radars to detect intrusions.
“If an aircraft wants to avoid being seen, they can easily become invisible to civilian radar by switching off the transponder.
“But it cannot avoid defence systems. The IAF has radars in multiple installations across the country and it is inconceivable that none of them spotted the odd blip with no flight clearance,” he was quoted as saying.
Not known whether Malaysian Air Force has “radars in multiple installations across the country”. I think that, and their locations, is secret. Are they compromised to the foreign experts already? Do they have to reveal such info to the International Crisis Management Team?
Republican Congressman and a 2016 US presidential candidate, Peter King, who heads the House Sub-Committee on Counterterrorism and Intelligence, demanded that US law enforcement agencies be given a bigger role in the disappearance of the MH370.
“This has been a frustrating time for the FBI … My understanding is the Malaysian government is not co-operating,” said the stupid and poor-understanding George W Bush’s associate and former chair of the House Committee on Homeland Security.
The US lawmaker insisted that the country’s National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the FBI, along with Interpol, must have a more “hands on” role in the investigation currently led by Malaysia.
But did they rush to offer their services as soon as news of MH370 disappearance came out? What ““hands on role” is he talking about? And what role are they doing now?
Call me racist what have you, but I am suspicious of Jews. As has been said here before, in US, King is a Jewish name.
In answer to a question from CNN (?), Acting Transport Minister DS Hishamuddin has just said he “has been working with FBI since Day One.”
So the Jew Peter King was talking nonsense. Hope his chances of being US President will peter out.
Hishamuddin reminded everybody that information will not be released unless it has been verified. Good. The Investigation Team should have played this on tape loudly every few minutes from Day One. Those spinning about so-called withholding information makes me sick.
Those complaining to their home base/ Congressman/ Senator about our “withholding information” in the hope of being able to get our defence and radar operational secrets ought to be shot in the buttocks
It’s bunkum thinking by the Yankees as reported by globalpost.com, saying –
“Malaysian authorities have been reluctant to accept large-scale American assistance … they believed Malaysian authorities didn’t want to look like they can’t handle things on their own.
“Despite US offers of more help, only two FBI agents are present in Malaysia’s capital Kuala Lumpur, where local officials are scouring the records of dozens of passengers and two pilots for clues into the jetliner’s disappearance on March 8.”
Now, what kind of thinking is that? Crazy to think that only they can handle airline mishaps, that they must have a huge number of FBI people in the Investigation team. They appear stupid not to know that under an international agreement that both US and Malaysia are signatories, the DCA of the country concerned leads the investigations and decide on its course etc. Also stupid not to know the level of consultations Malaysia makes and the number of countries co-operating with Malaysia.
Americans are experts in the realm of aircrash investigations, hijacking, sabotaging and terrorism. Not only in airspace but maritime domain as well. Outer space too , if you will. They have experts and specialists as well as past experience that involved their own airspace and maritime space. It is up to Malaysia how best we can tap into their expertise and borrow their experts. American interest in matters concerning maritime terrorism has endeared it to this region esp after the Sept 11 attacks right in the hearts of America. Thus I am not particularly surprised by their enthusiasm to help from day 1 of the MH 370 disappearance. Malaysia work culture esp on security does tend to get a wee bit secretive which is not wrong but in times of a major crisis such as this, an emergency approach has to be quickly devised to facilitate close collaborations with foreign military and security outfits. But this should not necessarily end up with foreign experts being roped into Msia’s Crisis Management team. This is where Ahjib gor is famous for faux pas. He is penny wise pound foolish. Msia’s Crisis Management team should remain in the hands of Msia. What can be done is to have an off shoot or a wing of the CMT that may include experts from countries that can provide advise and give opinion on technical matters relevant to the case.
In fact the callous and liberal expedience of Ahjib gor in bringing onboard foreign consultants in matters affecting national economy , political- economy and now security is worse than the presence of the experts themselves. Worse because we expect a leader who is more contemplative and wise, and have faith in the wisdom of his fellow countrymen and not rely on his warp notion that foreign consultants or private consultants are always excellent and smart because only a handful are , the rest are just so, so business card carrying job seekers.
Strange. Did your resume get rejected by Bain or McKinsey?☺
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:

Blog at WordPress.com.
| RSS 2.0
| Comments RSS 2.0
| The Quentin Theme.