2014-01~03
http://www.thesundaily.my/news/974072

Fear, anger as China reflects on attack | theSundaily
BEIJING: Defiant residents of the Chinese city where 29 people died in a mass stabbing queued to donate blood today, while others vented anger at what authorities say was a terrorist attack by separatists from Xinjiang.
Chinese internet users accused the US of double standards after Washington condemned the bloody rampage in Kunming by knife-wielding attackers but refrained from calling it a terrorist incident. More than 130 have been injured.
Officials have blamed separatists from Xinjiang, the far western Chinese region home to the Uighur ethnic minority.
Foreign ministry spokesman Qin Gang told reporters: "Some East Turkestan flags were found on the scene," referring to a group Beijing regards as a separatist terrorist movement.
A taxi driver in Kunming said she will stay away from the train station where the violence occurred, underscoring the tense sense of fear in the southwestern city. She then launched into an anti-Uighur tirade.
"I won't let them into my taxi. They are all drug addicts and everyone outside Xinjiang distrusts them," she said, refusing to give her name.
"They are trouble. Most people thought like this before, so you can imagine what people think now," she added, pounding her steering wheel for emphasis.
Xinjiang is periodically hit by violent clashes between the Uighurs and security forces, which China blames on terrorists seeking independence for the region.
But attacks targeting civilians are rarer and almost unheard of in Yunnan province, which is more than 1,600km from Xinjiang and a popular tourist destination.
The attack, which prompted shock and outrage nationwide, has been dubbed "China's 9/11" by state media and security has been tightened at transport terminals nationwide.
Police maintained a prominent presence on the streets of Kunming today, two days after attackers slashed indiscriminately at people queueing to buy tickets at the busy railway terminal.
Armed guards remained on duty at the station, although the waiting area that was sealed off Sunday had reopened.
Outside the large open shelter where witnesses said the carnage began, people laid flowers and wreaths around a few dozen burnt-out candles left over from a vigil the previous night. Plainclothes security patrolled the area. – AFP