2014-01~03
http://www.economist.com/blogs/analects/2014/02/sino-american-diplomacy-0

Sino-American diplomacy: The original Manchurian candidate visits America | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
This is the conclusion of a two-part story. See part one here. 
ANSON Burlingame, China’s first ambassador to the world, arrived in San Francisco on a boat from Shanghai in April 1868. He and his Chinese colleagues received an enthusiastic welcome: cheering crowds in California, a parade in Boston, a banquet in New York and a state dinner in Washington. Burlingame gave a speech to Congress and met Andrew Johnson, the American president. 
On paper Burlingame (pictured) was not given the power to negotiate treaties. Two Qing officials also accompanied him as envoys. But Burlingame, operating on his soil and in his native language, took charge and made his bid for history. As a prominent member of the Republican Party, he had allies in politics and the media in America, who helped make the trip a success. He had enemies too, in an era of raw feeling after the civil war, and there was some antipathy both for him personally and for the Chinese. John Schrecker, an historian at Brandeis University who is working on a biography of Burlingame, writes that reactions to his American mission were divided along party lines: Republicans and pro-Republican newspapers were generally sympathetic both to him and to China, while Democrats and their allied newspapers were hostile. This was especially so in California where Chinese labourers were working for low wages in mines and on railroads, and had been the target of racially discriminatory laws. Burlingame sought to improve their lot when he made it to the East Coast. 
In New York, the Republican press embraced Burlingame. Mark Twain, described by Mr Schrecker as “a close friend” of the ambassador, wrote a paean to him in Horace Greely’s New York Tribune, calling Burlingame “quick, sagacious” and “one of the ablest diplomats America has produced”. The Tribune also wrote of the mission that “the interests of Christianity will be more effectively promoted by this action of the Chinese Emperor than by any other political event of the last two centuries”.
If that seems like hyperbole, Burlingame provided some of his own in his most famous speech of the trip, at a banquet in New York on June 23rd 1868. At the time of his mission, China was at the peak of a reformist period known as the Tongzhi Restoration, named for the boy emperor then on the throne, during which the Qing sought “self-strengthening” by learning from the West (sending Burlingame abroad was a part of this effort). It was a hopeful time from a Westerner’s perspective. However the ambassador painted a picture of a job close to finished, rather than just having begun with tentative steps. China was modernising speedily, he said: “There is no spot on earth where there has been greater progress made within the past few years than in the Empire of China”. Burlingame excited Western imaginations of a modern China with railroads and telegraph lines and, in what has become his most-quoted line, Christian missionaries planting “the shining cross on every hill and in every valley”.
His was a premature and distorted vision, though. Missionaries had some success converting Chinese, but they were resented by many; a massacre in Tianjin in June 1870, almost precisely two years after Burlingame’s speech, would make that clear to the world (and would lead to another Chinese diplomatic mission abroad, to apologise). A conservative backlash eventually doomed the Tongzhi Restoration. John Pomfret, a journalist who is writing a book on the history of Sino-American relations, writes that Burlingame’s successor as minister to China, John Ross Browne, described Burlingame’s vision of a reformist, friendly China as a “hallucination”. 
Nevertheless Burlingame achieved a concrete and historic diplomatic success on his trip to America: an equal treaty with China. It helped that his party was in power in Congress, where both houses received his mission in full sessions (Johnson, who received the mission as well, was a Democrat but had just narrowly survived an impeachment trial in the Senate). Moreover Burlingame’s old boss Seward, still secretary of state, wanted a closer relationship with China. A 19th-century American “pivot to Asia” was underway. America’s navy had just annexed the Midway Islands, Mr Pomfret notes, and America had bought Alaska from the Russians in what was dubbed “Seward’s folly”.
The Burlingame treaty, as it became known, was unlike any other Western accord with China. Though negotiated by Americans on both sides, it was by far the most China-friendly treaty of the era. It confirmed China’s sovereignty over all its territory, eschewing the “concession diplomacy” of other countries that had demanded territorial rights within China’s borders. It allowed Chinese and Americans to travel freely between their countries. It held that Chinese residents in America would enjoy the same rights as anyone else—including the right to become a citizen, which had been prohibited, but more crucially at the time, also the right to be treated fairly under the law (in California, for example, Chinese residents hadn’t been permitted to bear witness at trial). And it guaranteed Chinese access to federally controlled American schools.
Twain wrote a glowing 6,000-word appraisal of the treaty in the Tribune, with substantial help from his good friend Burlingame, Mr Schrecker writes. Twain wrote hopefully that routine white injustices against Chinese in California would now be punished, and that now the state had “20,000 prospective Hong Kong and Suchow voters and office-holders!” The treaty had plenty of detractors who were not keen to welcome Chinese immigrants nor prepared to view China as an equal power, but the Senate ratified it mostly intact. In Beijing the Qing court accepted the treaty even though their American envoy had overstepped his responsibilities. It was a much better deal than they had got elsewhere.
Burlingame continued his mission to the major capitals of Europe, where he and his Chinese colleagues received assurances that the days of gunboat diplomacy were over. He never made it back to his bosses in Beijing, though. He contracted pneumonia in St. Petersburg and died in 1870.
By the time of Burlingame’s death, there were signs that Western relations with China would remain unequal. A somewhat progressive treaty revision with Britain was scuttled after British mercantilists raised protests at its concessions. Russian troops were encroaching on north-western China and by 1871 would take control of much of the region of Xinjiang. In America the Burlingame treaty was revised in 1880 to suspend immigration of Chinese workers. The Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 followed, barring Chinese labourers from entering the United States and getting citizenship. It stayed on the books until World War II; America would not allow large-scale Chinese immigration again until 1965. Twain’s vision of a more tolerant America was, like Burlingame’s vision of a modern reformist China, premature and overly hopeful.
Burlingame was at one extreme pole of a debate that continues to this day, unresolved 146 years after his historic mission. Should Western policy and statecraft be designed to encourage China to reform, as friend more than foe? Or is that a naïve proposition? Modern diplomacy can produce no simple answers to these questions (including the so-called “pivot to Asia” under Barack Obama). China’s position in the world, after the fall of the Qing and decades of upheaval, is far stronger than it was then, and its leadership is asserting that strength both domestically and well beyond China’s shores. At the same time China has integrated economically with the world with even more vigour than Burlingame could have imagined. The situation is much transformed from Burlingame’s day, but the fundamental tension between Western democracy and Chinese authoritarianism remains. 
Insights into China's politics, business, society and culture. An allusion to Confucius, the name means “things gathered up” or “literary fragments”
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more