2014-01~03
http://www.worldbulletin.net/haberler/130656/china-detains-uighur-aids-activist-amid-crackdown

China detains Uighur AIDS activist amid crackdown | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
China has arrested a Uighur AIDS activist for endangering national security, a health advocacy group said, in the latest sign of the government's crackdown in the troubled far western region of Xinjiang, home to the largely Muslim Uighur people.
Akbar Imin was detained in Xinjiang's capital, Urumqi, on January 15, the same day that prominent Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti was held by police in Beijing, the Aizhixing Institute said in a statement seen by Reuters on Monday.
Authorities later charged Tohti, who had championed Uighur rights, with separatism.
Imin, a former employee of the Aizhixing Institute in Beijing, was detained by police when he was in Urumqi for his father's funeral, the institute said on Friday, adding that police should "not politicise" the case.
"We call upon Urumqi public security and relevant departments to cautiously deal with cases that involve our Uighur compatriots who participate in social and public welfare activities," it said.
Well-known Chinese dissident Hu Jia, who also once worked for the institute, said the 32-year-old AIDS prevention activist knew Tohti but the extent of their relationship was unclear.
"I understand that the charges are endangering national security. This crime is broad, and includes the crime of separatism, the accusation made against Ilham," Hu told Reuters by phone.
Imin graduated in 2006 from Beijing's ethnic minorities studies university, Minzu University, where Tohti is an economics professor.
HIV is a persistent problem in China's urban Uighur communities, in part stemming from intravenous drug use, activists have said.
Li Fangping, Tohti's lawyer, said endangering national security refers to a broad category of criminal offences in Chinese law, including separatism and interfering with national sovereignty, among many others.
"Speaking broadly, crimes under the category of endangering national security carry a sentence of around 15 years," he said. "If this case is handled in secret, the specific charge against him may never be clear."
Unrest in Xinjiang has killed more than 100 people in the past year, prompting authorities to toughen their stance. Many Uighurs resent restrictions on their culture and religion.
Foreign diplomats in Beijing said last month that Chinese police have detained at least four of Tohti's Uighur students. Their whereabouts are not known.
Advocates of Tohti say he has challenged official versions of several incidents involving Uighurs, including one in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October, that China says was its first major suicide attack.
His case is a sign of the government's hardening stance on dissent in Xinjiang, where Uighurs make up less than 50 percent of the population.
The United States, European Union and international rights groups have demanded Tohti's release.
He has said that he has never associated with a terrorist organisation or a foreign-based group and has "relied only on pen and paper to diplomatically request the human rights, legal rights, and autonomous regional rights for the Uighurs".
Security forces detonate roadside bomb in Muslim majority province where military has been clashing with ISIL-affiliated group
Two maintenance workers have been killed after a train in Singapore hit the workers
Suu Kyi to take one of four positions in new cabinet, with Minister of Foreign Affairs tipped to be the likely choice
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
China opens separatism trial for students of jailed Uighur scholar
US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

Gunman killed in attack on Mali hotel hosting EU mission

US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar

NASA astronaut to return to Earth after year in space
