2014-01~03
http://gulfnews.com/opinions/columnists/china-may-learn-it-is-hard-to-win-a-war-on-terror-1.1300356

China may learn it is hard to win a ‘war on terror’ | GulfNews.com
Branding one’s enemies ‘terrorists’ can create a negative feedback loop in which a heavy-handed crackdown inflames bitterness rather than quells it
Now China too has its war on terror. One of the consequences of last Saturday’s ghastly attack on civilians in Kunming’s main railway station — in which assailants dressed in black and wielding long knives slashed at least 29 people to death — is the acceptance by many outsiders that Beijing is indeed dealing with a terrorist threat.
Chinese authorities immediately blamed the carnage, which left a further 140 injured, some of them critically, on “terrorist separatist forces” from the Xinjiang region that is home to predominantly Muslim Uighurs. The attack in Kunming, capital of Yunnan, thousands of miles from Xinjiang itself, marked an escalation of violence in China’s heartland after a smaller assault last October in Tiananmen Square in which two bystanders were killed.
Washington’s acceptance of the term “terrorist” was not immediate. To some in China it was begrudging. Pressed on the issue last Monday, Jen Psaki, US State Department spokeswoman, said the deadly attack “appears to be an act of terrorism targeting random members of the public”. (The United Nations Security Council had a day earlier condemned “in the strongest terms the terrorist attack”.)
Last Monday’s statement from Washington was an advance on the weekend when the US embassy in Beijing had invited scorn by referring to the Kunming attack as “a horrific, senseless act of violence”. The embassy was bombarded with more than 50,000 angry comments deriding the choice of language. One of the most popular, read: “If the Kunming attack were a ‘horrific, senseless act of violence, then the 9/11 attack in New York City would be a ‘regrettable traffic accident’.”
The comment was a stretch, but it appears to have hit a nerve among Chinese who accuse the West of double standards. Writing in Tealeaf Nation, a US-based e-magazine, Yiqin Fu said some Chinese social media users were annoyed by the use of quotation marks around the word “terrorist” in many western reports. The People’s Daily, a state mouthpiece, lambasted western commentators for what it called their “intentional downplaying of the violence and sympathy towards the assailants”. Ironically, the butchery in Kunming was underplayed in much Chinese state media as well, which carried only cursory accounts.
A frequent objection to western reporting was the attempt by journalists to look for the “root causes” of violence in the treatment of the Uighur minority in Xinjiang, a vast, resource-rich region in western China. Many Uighurs complain that their language and religion are routinely suppressed. As in Tibet, another restless autonomous region, Beijing has practised a policy of assimilation, flooding Xinjiang with Han Chinese who now comprise 40 per cent of the population.
The Chinese narrative of 5,000 years of unbroken history depicts the country’s present-day borders as inalienable. Yet, as with any nation state — all “artificial constructs” in the words of British historian Linda Colley — over the years China’s borders have shifted. They have, in the phrase of author Timothy Beardson, “moved around like a French concertina”. For centuries, the area that is now Xinjiang was under the control of various Chinese and non-Chinese forces. After the fall in 1911 of the Qing Dynasty, which had consolidated its “New Frontier”, the literal meaning of Xinjiang, the region was briefly independent. After 1949, the Communists brought it back under control. In the 1990s, Uighur nationalism gained strength as several central Asian states became independent after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
As the West has found, there are dangers in branding one’s enemies terrorists. One is that to do so can provoke a witch-hunt. Uighurs already complain of discrimination, for example, being refused reservations in hotels when they travel outside Xinjiang. The district police in Guangxi province, which borders Yunnan, warned chillingly: “If anyone discovers people from Xinjiang living, doing business or travelling here, please immediately report them.” To be fair, Beijing appears to be alert to the dangers of vigilantism. The People’s Daily warned sensibly: “Don’t turn your anger for the terrorists into hostility towards an ethnic group.”
A related danger of treating the attackers as terrorists — rather than criminals who must be caught and punished — is that it can polarise attitudes. At worst, it can create a negative feedback loop in which a heavy-handed crackdown inflames bitterness rather than quells it. Rebiya Kadeer, an exiled Uighur leader who is herself branded a terrorist by Beijing, blamed the Kunming outrage on “extremists”, adding that it was vital for Beijing to “deal with the longstanding and deteriorating human rights issues facing Uighurs if tensions are to be reduced”.
It is a message unlikely to be heeded. Having persuaded the world that it now faces a terrorist threat, Beijing may discover what has become apparent outside China — “Wars on terror” are hard, if not impossible, to win.