2014-01~03
http://www.malaysiasun.com/index.php/sid/220462403/scat/48cba686fe041718/ht/No-Answers-No-closure-on-MH370

No Answers, No closure on MH370 - Malaysia Sun
The mysterious disappearance of Malaysian Airlines flight MH370 has shocked the world and caused untold distress to the families of the 239 people on board.
Till the wreckage of the aircraft is not found, there is no closure for family members and investigators. The slim hope lingers that if the aircraft was hijacked, it might have landed on an airstrip. There is then a remote chance that their family members are alive and might be reunited with them. But as the days pass and there is no trace of the aircraft and no communication from hijackers, if indeed it was hijacked, hopes keep receding.
For eight days, the families have gone through a traumatic wait and no end seems to be in sight. 24-hour news channels are beaming endlessly speculative reports, which are hard to ignore. The plane is at the bottom of the Indian Ocean, no it is on the China-Kazak border, it landed in the jungles of Burma, it fell into the South China Sea, Iranian hijackers, Uyghur terrorists, suicidal pilots: endless speculation because accurate information is coming in a trickle.
Despite criticism, Malaysian authorities have stuck to their decision of following rules of crisis management: stick to facts.
But for families, the process of waiting for information is extremely difficult to cope with. There were several false leads like the one of cell phones ringing of the people on board which was later explained as phantom ring-tones by cell phone operators. Some found instant messaging accounts active.
Kenneth Doka, a professor of counseling at the College of New Rochelle in New York, said on ABC News that families desperate for information "want a story that makes sense." Unfortunately nothing is making sense and every new bit of information seems incredible.
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak said on Saturday that the Malaysian Airline aircraft had its communications deliberately disabled and its last signal came about seven and a half hours after takeoff, meaning it could have ended up as far as Kazakhstan or deep in the southern Indian Ocean. There are 13 countries involved in the search and rescue operation (SAR), making coordination a nightmare.
Family members who are desperate for information are caught in this web of national sensitivities regarding overlapping of investigations.
Chinese investigators have lost patience with Malaysian authorities several times during the course of the SAR operations for not sharing information. At Beijing airport where MH370 was supposed to land, one relative of a passenger threw a water bottle at a Malaysian Airline executive.
Families are frustrated over the lack of information from the airline and Malaysian authorities. But they have no choice other than to wait and be at the mercy of the transparency of the investigation and the accountability of the airline.
Add to that the endless speculation on social media, the tasteless jokes, unverified 'sightings', doctored Youtube videos that cause panic and anxiety among concerned relatives. It is a horrific situation that shows little signs of ending. The past eight days have been a tumultuous period of grief and hope.
Psychologists warn that it takes a long time for families to heal from accidents like air crashes. Some cancel travel plans for months on end, some feel claustrophobia on entering aircraft even though it has been proven that air travel is one of the safest modes of transport.
Chance of a fatal accident after boarding an aircraft is one in several million. In comparison, there is one death every five minutes on Indian roads and yet we travel by road almost every day.
Fear is something that is difficult to explain, difficult to rationalise and hard to overcome. Thousands of Americans did not travel by air for a long time after the 9/11 terror strikes.
Many said that even boarding an aircraft would make them feel trapped and they had to take anti-anxiety medication to calm their nerves during the flight. I have not been able to summon up courage to fly to Mangalore, my home town, ever since Air India Express Flight 812 crashed in 2010 killing 158 on board. The aircraft overran the airstrip and fell off the hill, "breaking into two", said a survivor.
In some air crashes, when the bodies of their loved ones were not found, families don't give up hope. Ever. It is difficult for even counsellors to help because when there are no answers to what happened, how does one even begin to logically arrive at conclusions and closures? By Smita Prakash (ANI)
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Hockey India (HI) on Monday picked a young squad for the 25th Sultan Azlan Shah Cup to be held in Malaysia from April 6-16, with established players like Akashdeep Singh, P.R. Sreejesh, Dharamvir Singh, V.R. Raghunath and Birendra Lakra missing, in a bid to try out "different permutations and combinations", according to its president, Narinder Batra.
"This squad is nothing about seniors or juniors. We are trying out different combinations and permuations in the bid to prepare before Olympics. It is not about those players being rested or injured," Batra told IANS.
However, defender Harmanpreet Singh, midfielder S.K. Uthappa and strikers Nikkin Thimmiah and Mandeep Singh have made a return to the 18-member national squad.
Karnataka player Nikkin was out of the side due to a hand injury. He even missed the major part of Dabang Mumbai's campaign in the Hockey India League (HIL) which concluded last month.
Uthappa played a key role in Kalinga Lancers's runners-up finish in the HIL and he has been rewarded for his hard work.
Young goalkeeper Akash Anil Chitke has taken Sreejesh's spot as a new entrant, while midfielder Harjeet Singh, captain of the national Under-21 side, has also got his maiden national call-up, alongwith Surender Singh.
Chitke was declared as the 'Promising Player of the Tournament' at the 5th senior National Championship in 2015.
Centre-half Sardar Singh will captain the side, while senior forward S.V. Sunil is the vice-captain. The squad includes five defenders in the form of Rupinder Pal Singh, Jasjit Singh Kular, Kothajit Singh, Surender Singh and Harmanpreet Singh.
The midfield will be under the leadership of Sardar and he will be assisted by Danish Mujtaba, Chinglensana Singh, Manpreet Singh, S.K. Uthappa and Harjeet Singh.
Sunil, Talwinder Singh, Mandeep Singh, Ramandeep Singh, Nikkin will form India's attack line.
Besides India, defending champions New Zealand, 2012 Olympic bronze medallists Australia, Pakistan, Japan, Canada and hosts Malaysia will also be taking part in the annual tournament.
With the 2016 Rio Olympics coming up a few months down the line, the Sultan Azlan Shah Cup will serve has as a barometre to measure the teams' preparations.
"India has a good record in the Sultan Azlan Shah Cup and we would like to keep it that way," Sardar said.
"Being an Olympic year, this tournament assumes special importance as it will give us an idea where we stand. Playing against good teams like Australia, New Zealand and Pakistan and not to forget hosts Malaysia will give the team critical competition exposure.
"It will be a good opportunity trying out new things and new combinations in the tournament to see if they work," he added.
In preparation for the tournament, the Indian men's team is currently undergoing a training camp that started on March 7 at the SAI Centre in Bengaluru.
"The boys have been working hard as a unified unit and are geared up for the tournament ahead. Azlan Shah will be good testing ground for us right before the Rio Olympics and will be very crucial for the team. We are focused on improving the game technically and implement the right strategies," chief coach Roelant Oltmans said.
Indian have enjoyed a good run in the Sultan Azlan Shah Cup since it started as a biennial tournament in 1983 before becoming an annual affair since 1994.
India have won the prestigious tournament five times in 1985, 1991, 1995, 2009 and 2010, while earning the bronze on six occasions and finished runners-up once in 2008.
However, it won't be easy to counter the likes of Australia, New Zealand, Pakistan and Malaysia. Hosts Malaysia will be eager to make an impact under their new coach Stephen van Huizen.
The round-robin format of the tournament will help the Indian team to get decent amount of competition exposure under its belt. It will also give them an opportunity to gauge the fitness level of the players, since the conditions in Ipoh around this time of the year will be extremely hot and humid. The Indian team has shown considerable improvement in the fitness levels in the past couple of years.
Defenders: Rupinder Pal Singh, Jasjit Singh Kular, Kothajit Singh, Surender Singh, Harmanpreet Singh.
Midfielders: Danish Mujtaba, Chinglensana Singh, Manpreet Singh, Sardar Singh (Captain), S.K. Uthappa, Harjeet Singh.
Forwards: Talwinder Singh, Mandeep Singh, S.V. Sunil (Vice-Captain), Ramandeep Singh, Nikkin Thimmaiah.

Sydney - Two pieces of debris found in Mozambique have arrived in Australia for experts ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Hockey India (HI) on Monday picked a young squad for ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 21 (IANS) Malaysia's education ministry on Monday ordered all schools in Kedah ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 20 (IANS) Malaysian officials said on Sunday that two pieces of suspected ...
DUBAI, 22nd March, 2016 (WAM) -- A total of 248 out of 375 students, teachers ...
Get the latest Malaysia Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Malaysia Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved