2014-01~03
http://www.worldbulletin.net/haberler/130102/china-orders-crackdown-on-uighurs-after-deadly-attack

China orders crackdown on Uighurs after deadly attack | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
Police swept a Uighur district of China's southwestern city of Kunming hours after knife-wielding assailants killed 29 people in a crowded station, bloodily underscoring the risk of ethnic tensions spilling over the borders of restive Xinjiang (East Turkestan) region.
China has vowed to crack down on what it said were "extremist groups" who want to transform Xinjiang into an independent state called East Turkestan, but also sought to emphasise ethnic unity in the wake of what it described as a terrorist attack.
Xinjiang, in China's far west, is home to the Muslim Uighur people, many of whom chafe at Chinese restrictions on their culture and religion.
In Kunming, the capital of Yunnan province hundreds of miles southeast of Xinjiang, members of the small Uighur community spoken to by Reuters said the situation was tense.
"I alone have already been checked three times. The police point their guns at us. We don't know what really happened either," Uighur restaurant worker Aniwar Wuppur told Reuters.
Residents in Kunming's Dashuyin district, where many Uighurs live, said police came through the neighbourhood hours after the attack, rounding up dozens of people for questioning.
Several Uighur men said they were not physically harmed, but had been interrogated for hours.
One family from Xinjiang, grilling skewers of mutton over charcoal at a streetside stall, said police had stormed into their home, pointing guns at their faces.
"It's very tense now. You can feel it," said the 24-year-old man running the stall, who declined to be named. "Even though people don't say or do anything, they're staring at us all the time."
Saturday's violence was the first major attack blamed on people from Xinjiang so far from the region since an incident in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October. No one has claimed responsibility for the attacks, but Beijing was quick to blame Uighurs in both cases.
Before these two incidents, violence had largely been confined to Xinjiang, a region that borders ex-Soviet Central Asia, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India, where more than 100 people have been killed in the past year.
With the brutal imagery of slashed victims circulated on the Internet, high death toll and geographic separation from Xinjiang, the Kunming attack will provide a ready example for Chinese leaders who stress the growing threat they say China faces.
Chinese state television said that a female suspect was wounded and captured in the attack and that another woman was among suspects being sought. Four attackers were shot dead.
Zhu Weiqun, chairman of the ethnic and religious affairs committee of the top advisory body to parliament, which meets this week in Beijing, told the website of the Communist Party mouthpiece, the People's Daily, that such violence should not be linked to specific ethnic groups.
"If we end up taking our anger about this incident out on a particular ethnic group and equate one ethnic group with violent terrorism then that is completely incorrect, this is exactly what the separatists want," Zhu said.
There have been no signs of reprisals against Uighurs in Kunming, but some Han Chinese residents voiced their anger.
"They should just send them all back, and not let them come to Kunming anymore," said Yang Jing at her sewing shop across the street from a Uighur restaurant. "They're hateful. Even their small children steal things and fight, and the adults are even worse."
"You can't blame all Xinjiang people for this," said Li Baochang, passing through the Dashuyin district. "But suspicions are growing and sometimes, even if we don't want to, the feelings in our hearts have changed."
Security forces detonate roadside bomb in Muslim majority province where military has been clashing with ISIL-affiliated group
Two maintenance workers have been killed after a train in Singapore hit the workers
Suu Kyi to take one of four positions in new cabinet, with Minister of Foreign Affairs tipped to be the likely choice
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing'
US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

Gunman killed in attack on Mali hotel hosting EU mission

US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar

NASA astronaut to return to Earth after year in space
