2014-01~03
http://www.businessspectator.com.au/news/2014/1/17/china/china-police-detain-uighur-academic-wife

China police detain Uighur academic: wife | Business Spectator
Alan Kohler is one of Australia’s most experienced business commentators. Alan has been a trusted source of investment advice to Australians for many years, and in 2005 he founded Eureka Report - Australia’s #1 online investment report. Along with Robert Gottliebsen and Stephen Bartholomeusz, Alan also founded Business Spectator, the popular business news and commentary website. Alan is the regular finance presenter on the ABC News and producer of the popular nightly graph (or two).
Police in China have detained a prominent Uighur academic and outspoken critic of government policy towards the mostly Muslim minority, his wife says.
Ilham Tohti was taken to an unknown location by several dozen police on Wednesday along with his mother, his wife Guzaili Nu'er said, adding that police had confiscated their mobile phones and computers.
Tohti, 45, is an economist at a university in Beijing and has been critical of China's policies towards Uighurs, who are concentrated in the far western region of Xinjiang, which is regularly hit by unrest.
Police did not carry out any legal procedures while forcibly detaining Tohti in front of his two young children, his wife said.
"I asked (the police) where they had taken him, but they didn't say a word," she said.
"It had a big impact on my kids, they have been upset and crying since last night, now I don't even have a mobile phone."
Police combed through the family house, confiscating several computers and other items including phones and academic writings, she said.
It was not clear what triggered the police action, but Tohti has recently expressed fears on his website and in interviews with foreign media about increased pressure on Uighurs following a deadly attack in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October.
Tohti has been detained on a number of occasions in the past few years, including for more than a week in 2009 after his website ran reports on riots in Xinjiang which killed around 200 people.
His website, Uighurbiz, was offline on Thursday after it published a story about the detention.
Tohti, who lectures at the Central University for Nationalities in Beijing, did not answer his personal phone on Thursday and Beijing police were not immediately available for comment.
The vast Xinjiang region, which borders central Asia, has been hit by a series of violent clashes in the past year, which have killed dozens and which China's government has sometimes blamed on "terrorists".
China heavily restricts reporting in Xinjiang and it is hard to obtain independent accounts of events in the area.
China's Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said on Thursday that Tohti had been "criminally detained" because he was "under suspicion of committing crimes and violating the law", suggesting he is likely to face criminal charges.
China bears might dominate the narrative, but if the country can make 
meaningful progress on reform the future might not be as dire as many are 
predicting.


The President has run into mounting resistance over the Communist Party’s 
efforts to tighten its vice even more completely over China.


A ruthless pragmatism focused on economic results has given way to 
politicians weighing the effects of policy on the party’s standing.


A more optimistic view of China’s prospects has helped oil and iron ore 
claw back some of the recent price plunges, but it’s unclear if the 
comeback is sustainable.


Data providers to combine in all-stock deal, new company to be based in 
London.


Hotel chain sweetens its bid, trumping offer from group led by China’s 
Anbang Insurance.


There is talk of plans to demerge Origin Energy’s utility business from its 
exploration and production assets.


A $1b public offering of the privately-owned Reliance Worldwide plumbing 
valve manufacturer, gathers pace.


The RBA has warned to expect lower corporate payouts this year, but 
Australia’s many yield devotees are unlikely to give up their beloved 
dividend trade.


Given that demand growth for most commodities has weakened as supply keeps 
rising, it’s unlikely that either the bounce in prices or the local 
currency’s strength will last.


The government’s fintech strategy resets the risk dial in relation to 
regulation and will likely fast track the entry of new firms into the market.




 Malcolm Turnbull concedes Tony Abbott could be bad for his election campaign. 
