2014-01~03
http://www.worldbulletin.net/todays-news/131090/hr-groups-call-on-thailand-to-protect-uighur-refugees

HR groups call on Thailand to protect 'Uighur' refugees | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
Human Rights groups called Saturday for Thailand to protect 220 ethnic "Uighur Muslims" found hiding in a rubber plantation in southern Thailand several days ago.
The refugees, who say they are "Turks", have asked to be relocated to Turkey,
The calls came after representatives of the Turkish embassy – and China – flew to Songkhla in the country's south to talk to the refugees, believed to have fled from Xinjiang, the mainly Muslim province in western China.
The United Nations refugee agency wants access to the 220 people, now being held in a Thai immigration detention centre. The group, which was found at a suspected people smugglers' camp on Wednesday, includes 82 children.
Human Rights Watch representative Sunai Phasuk told the Anadolu Agency on Saturday that the refugees should not be forcibly returned to Xinjiang, "given the Chinese government’s long record of mistreating Uighur Muslims, including those arrested and sent back from overseas while trying to seek asylum."
Officials from the Turkish Embassy in Bangkok - and self-proclaimed teacher Erkin Ezizi, who flew from Ankara and arrived in southern Thailand on the same flight as the Turkish diplomats, visited the immigration office in Songkhla where they were held Friday.
When asked if the refugees were Turkish citizens, Ahmet Akay, the deputy chief of mission from the Embassy, told the Anadolu Agency: “Ethnicity and citizenship are two different thing. This is a humanitarian situation.”
The refugees greeted the arrival of Akay and the Turkish entourage with cheers, some hugging Ezizi with tears in their eyes.
Ezizi was traveling on a Turkish passport but a Thai translator said, judging from his dialect, he may have been an ethnic Uighur living in Turkey.
The refugees had said little to local authorities prior to the arrival of the entourage.
Thai police have said they believe the group was waiting to be smuggled by a human trafficking ring across the border to Malaysia, which is predominantly Muslim.
Fears that the "Uighurs" - if proven, a Turkic-speaking ethnic minority group who have accused the Chinese of government of human rights violations and discrimination against them - may be forcibly flown back to China have been exacerbated by the forced return of groups from Xinjiang seeking passage to a third country that have been flown back from Southeast Asian countries over recent years, including Malaysia and Cambodia.
Human Rights Watch said it was common for people fleeing China to head to Southeast Asia and that there had been multiple incidents of Uighurs being forcibly returned to Xinjiang – even though this was a violation of international law.
"In December 2009, Cambodia forcibly returned 20 Uighurs despite the fact that the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) had already issued ‘persons of concern’ letters to all members of the group. Subsequent media reports, which could not be independently verified, stated tat some members of that group were tried and sentenced to death, while others were sentenced to prison,” HRW said in a statement.
Malaysia also deported six Uighur men on December 31, 2012 – a move that drew strong condemnation from rights groups and other countries.
"Pervasive ethnic discrimination, severe religious repression, and increasing cultural suppression – justified by the Chinese government in the name of the ‘fight against separatism, religious extremism, and terrorism’ – continue to fuel rising tensions in Xinjiang," HRW said.
The rights group said Beijing imposed heavy and arbitrary restrictions on Uighurs’ ability to obtain passports, and the recent arrest of Uighur economist Ilham Tohti, a moderate advocate of the rights of Uighurs in China, suggested a crackdown on peaceful dissent in Xinijang.
"The attribution of recent attacks on Tiananmen Square in Beijing and on Kunming’s train station to alleged Uighur separatists has in turn increased tensions in the region, and will likely contribute to an increased outflow of Uighurs from China," HRW said.
Thai authorities have informed Chinese diplomats in Bangkok about the new group and officials are reported to have said that they should be sent back to where they came from.
However, a spokeswoman for the UNHCR in Bangkok said the agency wants to find out more about them and would work with the Thai authorities to ensure they can stay temporarily while their background and needs are assessed.
Vivian Tan said: "We are talking to the Thai authorities to make sure that they .. [are] not prematurely sent elsewhere before we have a chance to assess their situation."
She said UNHCR officials would discuss the need the international protection with Thai authorities and the international community "to see what longer term solutions can be found".
The "refugees" were found residing in a remote camp surrounded by a rubber plantation late Wednesday night and were immediately relocated to a Thai detention centre.
Authorities initially tried to separate the women and children from the men and placed them at a government-run Child Protection Centre at a nearby district, but the men refused to permit them to do so.
In what appeared to be a related incident, Malaysian border officials detained 62 self-proclaimed “Turks” suspected of entering Malaysia illegally on its northern border with Thailand.
They were spotted on the Thai-Malaysian border fence at about 5:30am on Thursday.
Malaysian authorities are still to comment on the nationality of the "Turks."
Security forces detonate roadside bomb in Muslim majority province where military has been clashing with ISIL-affiliated group
Two maintenance workers have been killed after a train in Singapore hit the workers
Suu Kyi to take one of four positions in new cabinet, with Minister of Foreign Affairs tipped to be the likely choice
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

Gunman killed in attack on Mali hotel hosting EU mission

US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar

NASA astronaut to return to Earth after year in space
