2014-01~03
http://news.nationalpost.com/2014/03/03/kunming-china-knife-attack/

Knife attack survivors describe chaos and carnage as masked terrorists 'slaughtered' men, women and children | National Post
Tom Phillips, The Telegraph | March 3, 2014 | Last Updated: Jan 25 3:52 AM ETMore from The Telegraph
Pu Xuefei was returning to the factories of Guangdong province when he found himself at the centre of a bloodbath.
The 28-year-old migrant worker had spent Chinese New Year with his baby daughter and was about to board a train that would whisk him hundreds of kilometres east, back to work.
But Mr Pu would never arrive. On Saturday night, as he waited at Kunming’s main railway station with thousands of other migrant workers and tourists, the unimaginable occurred.
Without warning, knife-wielding attackers descended on the station, in the capital of Yunnan province, and began slicing down their victims, one by one. When police bullets finally halted the attack, at least 29 civilians lay dead, among them Mr Pu.
“My cousin is gone,” Pu Xuegang, his 39-year-old relation, told The Daily Telegraph as he absorbed the news at a hospital packed with weeping families and sleepless doctors.
China reacted with shock and fury Sunday after Kunming, a famously tranquil tourist destination better known as the Spring City, became the scene for one of the worst terrorist attacks in recent Chinese history.
“It was China’s 9/11,” said Xinhua, the country’s official news agency. “Mothers, sons and daughters were slaughtered by strangers. A nationwide outrage has been stirred.”
Beijing immediately blamed the attack, which came on the eve of two key political summits in the capital, on terrorists from the restive, oil-rich province of Xinjiang in west China. Citing a statement from the Ministry of Public Security, the official Xinhua News Agency said that a “terrorist gang” of six men and two women led by a person identified as Abdurehim Kurban was responsible for the attack. Similar groups were also blamed for an October 2013 attack in Tiananmen Square that killed five.
Xinhua said police shot and killed four of the attackers, who used knives to slash at crowds of people, and captured an injured female suspect at the scene. Police captured the three remaining suspects Monday, state media said.
The brief Xinhua report did not identify the ethnicity of the eight or say how the final three suspects were identified and captured.
Xinjiang is home to the Uighurs, a largely Muslim, Turkic-speaking group, among whom there is festering and widespread discontent over what is perceived to be Beijing’s heavy-handed governance and draconian stance on religious freedom. Fierce clashes between police and people who authorities labelled Uighur terrorists claimed at least 100 lives last year in Xinjiang.
Although knife and bomb attacks occur periodically in Xinjiang, they have not been on this scale and, if Uighurs were to blame, this would be the first large-scale killing outside the remote region.
The incident could severely harden popular and official opinion on Xinjiang and provoke fresh outrage as a result.
“The psychological impact of this on the Chinese general public will be enormous,” said Shan Wei, a political scientist at the National University of Singapore’s East Asian Institute, adding that it would make people “more supportive of hard-line policies by the government.” Xinhua claimed “evidence found at the crime scene” proved the attack “was orchestrated by Xinjiang separatist forces” although the exact nature of that evidence remained unclear.
Witnesses declined to speculate about where their attackers might be from.
CCTV cameras positioned in and outside Kunming’s station are likely to have captured the slaughter in its ghoulish entirety. Yet, the exact sequence of events remains blurry.
What is known is that around 9.15 p.m. a group of at least 10 people, including men and women, were seen fanning out across a waiting area in front of the station’s main entrance carrying machetes and knives. They were dressed in black and some wore masks, survivors said. They had come to kill.
“It was absolutely terrifying,” said Wang Hongli, a 23-year-old tourism student, whose scalp was sliced open.
Ms Wang’s boyfriend, who declined to give his name, said the couple had been buying tickets to the historic town of Lijiang when a man hurtled towards them, “randomly hacking people.”
“He hacked aimlessly, randomly, everywhere. And after a while he left.”
The boyfriend rushed Ms Wang to hospital in a taxi where she was yesterday recovering in the neurosurgery unit.
Witnesses recounted scenes of pandemonium and carnage as the gang swept towards the station, slashing and lunging at victims, including children, the elderly and police. Fu Huiliang, 27, said he had been chased into a cell phone shop by a knife-wielding man. “His hair was long and messy,” Mr Fu said. “I couldn’t tell you where he was from.” The Chongqing Restaurant took in around 100 survivors. “They were terrified, crying. Some couldn’t even speak,” said the owner, who asked not to be named.
Reports and witness accounts suggest the attack lasted around 20 minutes, until police opened fire on the assailants, four of whom were killed.
When the shooting stopped at least 33 people lay dead, according to authorities. There were more than 143 wounded, including seven police officers, and a woman suspected of being involved in the attack was arrested.
Xi Jinping, the president, said the killers would be “severely punished” and ordered security forces to “firmly suppress [the] terrorists’ momentum.”
Outside the station, mourners, travellers and passers-by mingled with black-clad special forces equipped with helmets, assault rifles and shot guns.
And at Kunming’s Number One People’s Hospital, Mr Pu’s family waited for the release of his corpse.
“We are just little people. We have to accept it and live with it,” said his cousin. “What else can we do?”
© 2016 National Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.