2014-01~03
http://www.aljazeera.com/news/asia-pacific/2014/02/china-charges-uighur-academic-separatism-201422518156947258.html

China charges Uighur academic with separatism - Al Jazeera English
Meet the refugees who fled Syria for the Gaza Strip
25 Feb 2014 22:56 GMT | Asia Pacific, US & Canada, China, United States
Authorities in China's far western region of Xinjiang have charged a prominent ethnic Uighur professor with separatism.
After a month in detention, Ilham Tohti's arrest had been formally approved, and he was being charged with separatism, his wife Guzailai Nuer announced on Tuesday after receiving a notice from the local government.
Last month, police in the capital city of Beijing detained Tohti, a well-known economist who has championed the rights of the Muslim Uighurs, who come from Xinjiang, an autonomous region in the westernmost part of China.
"This is ridiculous. He's never done anything like this. He is a teacher," Nuer told Reuters news agency by telephone from her house in Beijing. Nu'er and Tohti live in Beijing, where he is an economics professor at Beijing's Minzu University.
Tohti's lawyer, Li Fangping, said that he would try and see his client on Wednesday, but he had so far not been given access.
"We'll see how things go in the morning," Li said from Xinjiang's capital Urumqi where Tohti is being held in a detention centre.
Reuters was unable to reach the Xinjiang government for comment.
The case against Tohti is the latest sign of the government's hardening stance on dissent in Xinjiang, often refered to as East Turkestan by ethnic Uighurs, Alim Seytoff, president of the Uyghur American Association, said in an interview with Al Jazeera.
"This indicates a new harder line against all dissent, no matter how it is expressed," Seytoff said.
"Tohti is a man of peace, he is not a violent person and he is a loyal Chinese citizen."
He appealed to the Obama administration to raise the issue with China and to make "a very strong stand" against the arrest.
He said he was doubtful that Tohti could get a fair trial in a Chinese court, and warned that the professor could face years in prison on false charges.
Over the past year, violence in Xinjiang has killed more than 100, including several police, according to state media.
But Tohti challenged the government's version of several incidents involving Uighurs, including what China said was its first major suicide attack, in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October, involving dissidents from Xinjiang, by highlighting inconsistencies in the official accounts.
Tohti, who specialises in ethnic minority studies, told Reuters last November that state security agents had physically threatened him for speaking to foreign reporters.
By January 15 of this year, he was taken from his Beijing home by several police officers. He was also detained in July 2009, but was released a month after pressure from the Obama administration.
Many Uighurs chafe at restrictions on their culture and religion within Xinjiang, although the Chinese government insists it grants them broad freedoms.
China has blamed some of the violence on armed groups and separatists who want to establish an independent state.
As Communist Party Congress begins, members of the Muslim minority hope for better treatment from China's government.
Several mosques open in riot-hit Chinese city, contrary to earlier closure order.

 Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
 are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
 or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
 global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
 accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.

A crew of underground rappers in Havana fight for a free Cuba by taking the young to task over their apathy.
Aboriginal communities taking their cases against oil pipeline and seismic testing to Supreme Court of Canada.
Who dies and where they were shot determines how much attention their deaths get and how many questions are asked.
The Gulf’s ace women's tennis player is putting the region on the world tennis map and eyeing an historic Olympic spot.
As Communist Party Congress begins, members of the Muslim minority hope for better treatment from China's government.
Several mosques open in riot-hit Chinese city, contrary to earlier closure order.
Up to 13 people reportedly killed at Zaventem airport, shortly before another blast strikes central metro station.
At unprecedented joint news conference, US and Cuban presidents go toe-to-toe on human rights and economic punishment.
Nigeria's first female mechanic views her country through the prism of opportunity and enterprise for women.
Latin American migrants risk life and limb to reach the US border in search of the American dream.
The incredible story of 18 cows that became Israel's most wanted fugitives and symbols of Palestinian resistance.