2014-01~03
http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/missing-malaysia-airlines-flight-who-3222758

Missing Malaysia Airlines flight: Who are the Uyghurs? Islam militants in China could be linked to plane drama - Mirror Online
The largely Muslim ethnic minority group the Uyghurs could be linked with the missing Malaysia Airlines flight.
Just last week the group was blamed for a violent attack at a Chinese train station.
On Saturday flight MH370 disappeared around 100 miles north of the Malaysian coast carrying 227 passengers and 12 crew.
The plane is presumed to have crashed off the Vietnamese coast after losing contact with air traffic controllers.
The plane was last detected on radar at 5.30pm UK time on Friday.
An airline tracking website suggested it plunged 650ft and changed direction before it vanished.
The northwestern region on Xinjiang, which borders central Asia is home to the Uighurs, an ethnic Muslim minority.
The region was brought under Chinese control in 1949 and since then the Uighurs have battled for independence.
The minority group - who have known terrorist links - are again being looked at as the hunt for clues on the missing Malaysia Airlines flight begins.
Two passengers appeared to have been travelling on stolen passports and there was no distress signal before the plane lost contact with air traffic control.
The possibility of it being a terror attack has not been ruled out at this stage.
Time magazine reported at least 100 people have been killed in the past year in violent clashes between Uighurs and Chinese security forces.
But fears of an escalation in violence have grown since the knife attack at a station in Yunnan province last week - which left 29 dead and 140 injured. No one has yet taken responsibility for the stabbings.



Feature China/Barcroft Media


Carnage: A terrified woman makes a phone call outside Kuming Railway Station after an attack by several people with knives



If they were responsible for the bloody attack, it marks a chilling rise in violent actions as they fight for autonomy from the Chinese state.
News outlets report the Uighurs have been subjected to harassment since the train station attack.
Last October they were also blamed for an attack which saw a car plough into crowds in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, killing five people, including three people in the car.
Since the 9/11 attacks in the US, Chinese authorities have portrayed Uighurs as having links with al-Qaeda.
In 2009, nearly 200 people died in ethnic riots in Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang.
The Uighurs say they are oppressed by China's authoritarian government and face religious restrictions and widespread discrimination.
They say they face strict rules on religion - including having to use a state-approved Koran.
They also say they face limits on career opportunities and Uighur men who want government jobs must shave their heads, with women not allowed to wear head scarves.
The ethnic minorities also say they face being marginalised in their homeland after an influx of China's Han ethnic majority.
The Uighurs now make up 45% of the population in Xinjiang.
But the Chinese government deny any oppression of Uighurs or any other ethnic group.
Libyan Abdelbaset al-Megrahi was convicted and jailed but in 1995 a US defence department document leaked from the NSA alleged Iran paid for the bombing
Royal Malaysian Air Force chief Rodzali Daud said: "We realised there is a possibility the aircraft did make a turnback."