2014-01~03
http://bdnews24.com/world/2014/03/15/two-hundred-freed-from-thai-trafficking-camp

Two hundred freed from Thai trafficking camp - bdnews24.com
The latest trafficking victims, possibly from China's troubled 
far-western region of Xinjiang, brings the total number of people freed from 
human traffickers to well over 800 since Reuters exposed the whereabouts of the 
illegal camps in a December 5 investigation.The raid is further evidence 
that human smugglers in southern Thailand - already a notorious trafficking hub 
for Rohingya boat people from Myanmar - are exploiting well-oiled networks to 
transport other nationalities in large numbers, despite an ongoing crackdown by 
Thai police."The human smugglers are expanding their product range," 
said Police Major General Thatchai Pitaneelaboot, who has launched a series of 
raids on trafficking camps in southern Thailand, including the 200 rescued on 
Wednesday.In Washington, US State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf 
said, "We do welcome reports that a group of approximately 200 Uighurs were 
rescued by Thai police from a camp in which they were being held.""We 
are urging the Thai Government to provide full protection to the victims to 
ensure that their humanitarian needs are met, and continue to urge and encourage 
Thailand to conduct thorough investigations for signs of trafficking, including 
in cases with alleged government complicity," Harf said.Two police raids 
in January, based on information provided in the Reuters investigation, freed a 
total of 636 people. At least 200 of them were Bangladeshis - an "unprecedented" 
number, said Thatchai.The rest were Rohingya, mostly stateless Muslims 
from western Myanmar, where deadly clashes with ethnic Rakhine Buddhists in 2012 
killed at least 192 people and left 140,000 homeless. Since then, tens of 
thousands of Rohingya have fled from Myanmar by boat, many of them coming ashore 
in southwest Thailand.The Reuters investigation in December reported 
that Rohingya were held hostage in illegal camps hidden near the border with 
Malaysia until relatives paid ransoms to release them. Some were beaten and 
killed. The investigation also found that Thai authorities had adopted a covert 
policy to push Rohingya detainees out to sea - and back into the hands of human 
traffickers - because police immigration detention camps were overwhelmed with 
new arrivals.CLAIM TO BE TURKISHThe suspected Uighurs were 
discovered on Wednesday night in a hilly rubber plantation in an area where the 
Reuters report identified at least three camps used by Rohingya smugglers last 
year. The camp guards fled as police approached, Thatchai said.Those 
rescued included at least 100 children, most of them toddlers or still 
breastfeeding, and a pregnant woman. They now sit on plastic mats in a parking 
lot at the regional immigration headquarters - the nearest police detention 
center is too full of Rohingya and Bangladeshis to accommodate them. Police say 
thegroup claims they are Turkish, although they have no documents to 
prove that.The group in Hat Yai shows strong similarities to 
Turkic-speaking Uighur asylum-seekers who have been detained in Bangkok, police 
sources say.In a possibly related incident, Malaysian police arrested 62 
people who had illegally crossed the porous border between Thailand and Malaysia 
on Thursday, the New Straits Times newspaper reported. They also claimed to be 
Turkish, although it is highly unusual for Turks to seek asylum in this 
way.Unrest in China's Xinjiang has killed more than 100 people in the 
past year, prompting a crackdown by Chinese authorities. Many Uighurs resent 
restrictions on their culture and religion, and complain they are denied 
economic opportunities amid an influx of Han Chinese into the province. Many 
Uighurs refer to Xinjiang as East Turkestan. The region came under Chinese 
control following two short-lived East Turkestan republics in the 1930s and 
1940s.KEEPING SILENTThai police are struggling to officially 
identify the group detained in Hat Yai. So far, none of them has spoken more 
than a few words of Arabic, even to local Thai Muslims who have arrived to offer 
help.Their silence is only broken by the mewling of children. They all 
have fair, Caucasian features and the women wear headscarves which leave only 
the eyes uncovered."These people will refuse to acknowledge Chinese 
citizenship to avoid being forcibly repatriated," said Kayum Masimov, president 
of the Montreal-based Uyghur Canadian Society. "They will simply refuse to talk. 
They fear for their safety."Masimov spoke by telephone to the man 
identified by police as the group's leader and said he understood the Uighur 
language. The leader gestured toward men not to talk when Reuters approached 
them."The leader says who can talk and who cannot talk," said Thatchai, 
the police major-general.The 200 people in Thailand were part of what 
Masimov called an "unprecedented" exodus of Uighurs from western China in recent 
years. "We have never had so many people leaving our homeland," he 
said.A Chinese diplomat had arrived to assess the situation, while 
Turkish officials were en route from Bangkok, police said.FEARING 
DEPORTATIONSThatchai said he planned to move the women and children into 
a meeting room inside the headquarters. Many of the suspected Uighurs were 
growing impatient. "They're under pressure," he said. "They want to go somewhere 
but they don't want to go back to China."In 2009, 20 Uighurs were 
deported from Cambodia to China despite the objections of the United Nations and 
human rights groups, who said they faced lengthy jail terms upon their 
return..New York-based Human Rights Watch also criticized Malaysia for 
deporting six Uighurs to China last December.At least 100 Uighur men, 
women and children are being held at an immigration detention center in Bangkok, 
part of a small but growing number arrested for illegally entering Thailand, 
most likely overland through Laos from southwest China.The United 
Nations refugee agency would not confirm the identity of the people detained in 
Hat Yai."We understand a large group of people were rescued after a 
smugglers' camp was raided (in Thailand)," said Babar Baloch, a spokesman for 
the UNHCR. "We have a team there to assess their urgent humanitarian and any 
protection needs."Malaysia, a Muslim-majority nation with a chronic 
shortage of labor, is often the ultimate destination for growing numbers of 
Asian migrants and asylum-seekers who are falling prey to human trafficking 
rings.On March 6, Reuters reported that human traffickers had held 
hundreds of Rohingya Muslims for ransom in houses in northern Malaysia. Their 
graphic accounts of abuse suggested that trafficking gangs had shifted their 
operations into Malaysia as Thai authorities cracked down on jungle camps on 
their side of the border.
Any unauthorised use or reproduction of bdnews24.com content for commercial purposes is strictly prohibited and constitutes copyright infringement liable to legal action.