2014-01~03
http://www.worldbulletin.net/world/130346/china-official-kunming-attack-should-not-be-an-ethnic-issue

China official: Kunming attack should not be an ethnic issue | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
A deadly knife attack at a Chinese train station last week should not be linked to ethnicity, a senior government official said, days after authorities blamed the incident on separatists from the country's troubled far western region of Xinjiang (East Turkestan).
China says militants from Xinjiang, home to a large Muslim Uighur minority, launched a "terrorist" attack in the southwestern city of Kunming, killing at least 29 people and injuring about 140.
Fear and resentment between majority Han Chinese and Uighurs have spread after the attack, said Zhu Weiqun, the chairman of the ethnic and religious affairs panel of the top advisory body to parliament, which meets this week in Beijing.
"Such sentiments - although not widespread - deserve our attention," Zhu told the official China Daily, adding that the "overwhelming majority of the migrant Uighurs from Xinjiang are good people".
"Most Uighurs are with us in the fight against separatism and violent terrorism," he said, in an interview in the English-language newspaper published on Thursday. "They sincerely support the central government."
The comments highlight Beijing's concern over the growing frictions between Uighurs and Han Chinese and the potential for further unrest.
After the Kunming attack, many residents voiced ethnic concerns to Reuters reporters and some businesses and hotels displayed signs turning away Uighurs.
Online accounts have described growing discrimination against Uighurs, ranging from their evictions from apartments to refusals by taxi drivers.
Police in the Yunnan city of Dali were forced to apologise on an official microblog for helping to evict a Uighur man from his apartment after being called in for an identity check on Sunday, the popular Global Times tabloid reported.
Beijing has not explicitly accused Uighurs of carrying out the Kunming attack, but by calling the perpetrators from Xinjiang the implication is clear.
State media have reported that a female suspect was injured and captured in the attack in Kunming, the capital of Yunnan province, which is hundreds of miles southeast of Xinjiang, and that three suspects, including another woman, had been caught. Four were shot dead.
Many Uighurs say they are unhappy at Chinese curbs on their culture and religion.
China bristles at suggestions from exiles and rights groups that the unrest is driven more by unhappiness at government policies than by any serious threat from groups who want to establish an independent state called East Turkestan.
Authorities say many have links with foreign groups, although rights groups and some foreign experts say there is little evidence to support this.
Chinese authorities should stop using the attack to carry out "extreme propaganda" and "incite racism", Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for key exile group the World Uyghur Congress, said in an emailed statement late on Wednesday.
Security forces detonate roadside bomb in Muslim majority province where military has been clashing with ISIL-affiliated group
Two maintenance workers have been killed after a train in Singapore hit the workers
Suu Kyi to take one of four positions in new cabinet, with Minister of Foreign Affairs tipped to be the likely choice
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing'
US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

Gunman killed in attack on Mali hotel hosting EU mission

US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar

NASA astronaut to return to Earth after year in space
