2014-01~03
http://www.pakistantoday.com.pk/2014/03/27/comment/need-to-foster-pak-iran-ties/

Need to foster Pak-Iran ties | Pakistan Today
In November 2008 non-state actors disrupted talks between Pakistan and India which were moving satisfactorily. A terrorist oganisation calling itself Jaishul Adl has now caused confrontation between Pakistan and Iran. In between, China has expressed unhappiness over Uighur separatists launching attacks inside China after receiving training in Pakistan’s tribal areas. Iranian authorities allege the terrorist network kidnapped five of their border guards and took them into Pakistani territory. In case this is true, it would indicate that terrorist organisations continue to use Pakistan’s territory as a launching pad against neighbours. No responsible country can allow non-state actors to take its foreign relations hostage. The incident has already led to firing of rockets and mortar shells by Iran into the border areas of Balochistan. At a meeting of the Pakistan-Iran joint border commission in Quetta where both sides vowed to resolve the issue through talks. The killing of one of the border guards by the terrorists has again exacerbated tensions. Iranian foreign ministry summoned the Pakistani Ambassador and President Rouhani telephoned Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif for “serious and swift action” to secure the release of the abducted guards. The Iranian president also called for “joint action by both countries against terrorists”. The demand from the highest level in Iran indicates the serious turn the situation is taking.
It is in Pakistan’s supreme interest to improve its relations with Iran. Among other things Islamabad needs to stand aloof from the Gulf conflicts being fought on sectarianism slogans. Sending Pakistani arms that would be used to kill Shias in Syria is likely to have consequences inside Pakistan with negative impact on national unity. By taking sides in Syria Pakistan will not only distance itself from China which remains committed to not taking positions in the internal affairs of Syria but also unnecessarily annoy Russia which has a naval base in Syria and supports the government. In his recent briefing to the Senate Sartaj Aziz promised to strike a balance in relations with Saudi Arabia and Iran. He was also reported to have said that the PM would be visiting Tehran ‘within a few weeks’. The visit is already overdue as the invitation from the Iranian president was extended way back in December last year. There is need on the part of the of the security agencies to do the utmost to bring Jaishul Adl terrorists to law. No terrorist group should be allowed to attack other countries from Pakistan’s soil.
An agreement between Iran and the US on Tehran’s nuclear programme is by no means inconceivable. In case this happens, this would lead to the end of sanctions on Iran that have stood in the way of Pak-Iran gas deal. Therefore Pakistan has to act with an eye on its national interests which demand friendly relations with all sides in the Gulf and enmity with none.
3 times PM of Islamic Republic Of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif went many times to Usa India China Ksa Arabia Afghanistan but Never to Islamic Republic Of Iran this one is very surprising the country who wanted to offer Ir Pakistan Gas Pipeline Oli Refinary but from english administaration of Pkaistan nothing was updated or realized Only Talking Air Firings! Since the Lost of East Pakistan in 1971 Pakistan's english administration has learned nothing, History teachs lessons but not in Pakistan! Bombing in Balochistan, Karachi Sindh, Kpk, Fata, Gilgit, Baltistan, now in Punjab Islamabad-Rawapindi practicaly Every Corner in Pkaistan!, Deaths in Tharparkar Sindh, this a Civil war like Situation, like in the times of Shah of Iran! it's time english elits in pakistan share cake with Islamic Forces of Pakistan
"Dedicated to the legacy of the late Hameed Nizami" Arif Nizami (Editor) 4-Shaarey Fatima Jinnah, Lahore Ph: +92 42 36375963-5 Fax: 042-36298302 Ph: +92 51 2287273 Islamabad, Ph: +92 21 35381208-9 Karachi Email: [email protected]