2014-01~03
http://www.aljazeera.com/news/asia-pacific/2014/01/chinese-police-kill-terrorists-xinjiang-2014125114042742275.html

Chinese police kill 'terrorists' in Xinjiang - Al Jazeera English
Meet the refugees who fled Syria for the Gaza Strip
26 Jan 2014 04:20 GMT | Asia Pacific, China, India, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan
Chinese authorities have claimed to have shot dead six people during a "terrorist" attack in the western region of Xinjiang, with six more dying when the explosives they were carrying detonated, according to the state news agency.
Xinhua said that police came under attack on Friday in Xinjiang, which is home to a large ethnic minority Uighur population. 
"During the process of tackling a terrorist case in Xinhe county, they were attacked by thugs who were throwing explosive devices," Xinhua said. Five suspects were captured and one policeman was slightly injured.
However Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the Munich-based World Uighur Congress, said the unrest started when Uighurs protested against the sale of pigs in the market on Fridays, a Muslim holy day, and said that the hair salon was a brothel in disguise.
"The Chinese vendors used to sell pork by jin (pound), but now they are hanging up the entire carcasses,'' Raxit said.
He said police opened fire on the crowds and on a vehicle that was leaving, causing its fuel tank to explode.
"It is not possible for the Uighurs to have weapons, given the tight controls by the authorities,'' said Raxit.
At least 91 people, including several policemen, have been killed in violence in Xinjiang since last April, according to state media reports.
Rights groups say China has overplayed the threat posed by activists from the large Uighur minority, Muslims who speak a Turkic language, to justify tough controls in energy-rich Xinjiang.
The region lies on the borders of ex-Soviet Central Asia, India and Pakistan. Eleven people believed to be members of an armed group of ethnic Uighurs were killed in Kyrgyzstan after illegally crossing into the former Soviet republic from China, Kyrgyz border guards said on Friday.
Culture, clashes and crackdowns in restive Xinjiang on display at Beijing museum, inciting rare public discourse.
Exiled Uighur leader Rebiya Kadeer accuses China government over Xinjiang unrest.


 Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
 are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
 or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
 global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
 accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.

A crew of underground rappers in Havana fight for a free Cuba by taking the young to task over their apathy.
Aboriginal communities taking their cases against oil pipeline and seismic testing to Supreme Court of Canada.
Who dies and where they were shot determines how much attention their deaths get and how many questions are asked.
The Gulf’s ace women's tennis player is putting the region on the world tennis map and eyeing an historic Olympic spot.
Culture, clashes and crackdowns in restive Xinjiang on display at Beijing museum, inciting rare public discourse.
Exiled Uighur leader Rebiya Kadeer accuses China government over Xinjiang unrest.

Up to 13 people reportedly killed at Zaventem airport, shortly before another blast strikes central metro station.
At unprecedented joint news conference, US and Cuban presidents go toe-to-toe on human rights and economic punishment.
Nigeria's first female mechanic views her country through the prism of opportunity and enterprise for women.
Latin American migrants risk life and limb to reach the US border in search of the American dream.
The incredible story of 18 cows that became Israel's most wanted fugitives and symbols of Palestinian resistance.