2014-01~03
http://www.ecns.cn/2014/02-24/102021.shtml

Security stepped up in Xinjiang - Headlines, features, photo and videos from ecns.cn|china|news|chinanews|ecns|cns
China stepped up the security level in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region and four other northwestern provinces as it prepares for the annual two sessions, which are scheduled to be held in Beijing in early March.
In a deployment meeting held by the Ministry of Public Security on Thursday, the government decided to strengthen security in the six provincial-level regions surrounding Beijing. It also decided to step up security in five provincial-regions in Northwest China for the first time and to share information and train local police in anti-terrorism, according to the Beijing Daily.
The five regions are Gansu, Shaanxi and Qinghai provinces, Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region and Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.
"The high alert this year is a sign that the Chinese authorities are well aware of the security threat posed by the 'three forces,'" said Li Wei, a security expert from the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations.
In October 2013, a jeep crashed into Tiananmen Square, killing five and injuring 40. The incident was later found to be a terrorist attack carried out by the East Turkestan Islamic Movement.
"The attack changed the authorities' mindset that terrorist activities only occur in border areas," said Li. "Although we cannot make sure this security work is designated by the newly established State Security Committee, it shows how the committee would operate on a comprehensive and national basis."
To better carry out security work, the Beijing Public Security Bureau said on its official website that it will offer cash rewards from 1,000 yuan ($164) to 40,000 yuan to whoever provides useful tips to help uncover terrorist attacks.
NASA captures an exploding star's brief scream for first time
Aerial photos show green landscape covered by clouds in S China
Copyright ©1999-2015 Chinanews.com. All rights reserved.
Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.