2014-01~03
http://za.news.yahoo.com/suspected-uighurs-rescued-thai-trafficking-camp-072240085.html

Yahoo
The cardinal mistake of those close to power is they think they are in power too, writes Dumisani Hlophe. Johannesburg - The Guptas arrived in South Africa from India in recent years. They came to South Africa because the country presented some serious opportunities - business opportunities, to be precise. Therefore, their close relationship with the president, Jacob Zuma, and his family is located within this money generation adventure. In this commercial adventure, Zuma becomes a source of investment. His commercial value is influence and the control of state apparatus and resources. Given that he will not always be the State President, the Guptas sought to build commercial empires and secure
Save up to 10% when you combine your auto and home insurance. Get a free quote and start saving today.
Johannesburg – Ntandoyenkosi Kunene was crowned Miss South Africa 2016 at a glittering ceremony at Carnival City, Brakpan, in Gauteng, on Saturday. Runners-up were Elizabeth Molapo from the Free State (1st Princess) and Tayla Skye Robinson from Gauteng (2nd Princess). Kunene, 23, an education honours student from Mpumalanga, said she was determined to “make a difference during her reign”, the organisers said in a statement. As Miss South Africa 2016 Kunene won cash, a car, and products valued at more than R2 million. “She also gets R600 000 courtesy of Cell C, Sun International, and Varsity College to spend on random acts of kindness during her reign,” the statement said. The event – broadcast
The Democratic Alliance (DA) says it will request that Public Protector Thuli Madonsela extend her investigation into President Jacob Zuma and the Guptagate scandal to include the latest “shocking revelations” by former Government Communication & Information System...
Baviaans Municipality mayor Ewald Loock was hit with a knobkerrie while trying to address protesters. Samwu Samwu strike Ewald Loock Baviaans Municipality CAPE TOWN - The African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape has called for calm in a municipal dispute that saw the mayor of a Democratic Alliance (DA)-led municipality attacked. Baviaans Municipality mayor Ewald Loock was hit with a knobkerrie while trying to address a group of striking municipal workers in Willowmore on Friday. The ANC's Mlibo Qoboshiyane says labour disputes should never be settled with violence. “We want the matters that affect the workers in that municipality to be taken seriously. We know it’s been coming and
Men, reduce the look of wrinkles, sagging skin and fine lines with this affordable and effective skin tightening treatment without leaving your home.
Cape Town - The ANC’s national executive on Sunday night backed Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas in his stand-off with the powerful Gupta family. The ruling party’s highest structure has drawn a line in the sand for President Jacob Zuma’s wealthy backers. “We reject the notion of any business or family group seeking (political) influence over the ANC with the contempt it deserves, while also recognising the need to act to protect the integrity of our government and our organisation,” ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe told the media following a marathon meeting of the national executive committee.  Last week Jonas lifted the lid on the Gupta family’s attempts to seize control of the country’s
Vuyo Mvoko's show ‘On The Record’ was allegedly cancelled after reports he planned to discuss the Guptas. SABC Gupta Gupta ministerial job offers Vuyo Mvoko JOHANNESBURG – The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) has declined to comment on the canning of senior political journalist Vuyo Mvoko's show after reports that he was planning to discuss ‘state capture’ by the Guptas. In a Twitter post by the SABC anchor on Thursday, which was the last time he spoke publicly, Mvoko announced to his viewers that his show, On The Record with Vuyo Mvoko, would not be airing that night, or in future. Questions surrounding the reasons behind the sudden axing of the show, which only began airing in
Almost two years after more than 200 girls were kidnapped from their secondary school in Chibok, Borno State, by the Boko Haram terror sect, it has been revealed that the surveillance carried out by the United States of America and the United Kingdom spotted around 80 of the abducted schoolgirls, but the governments of both countries did nothing about it as a rescue attempt was considered too "high risk". According to the British-based Sunday Times newspaper, videos accounts also have emerged showing that the girls were brutally raped regularly. The terrorists stormed a secondary boarding school in the remote town of Chibok on April 14 2014 and seized 276 girls who were preparing for end-of-year exams.
Free Report: The 8 Best Places To Retire In Style Overseas Today. Access Now.
He accused him of "controlling" the ANC and the DA. Speaking to supporters at a rally in Khayelitsha, Cape Town, Malema also claimed that Rupert was behind his troubles with the taxman. "The ANC and DA are one thing. They agree on everything. The ANC is a black DA and the DA is a white ANC. All of them are controlled by Rupert and friends," Malema told a cheering crowd He said Rupert had ordered the ANC to deal with him while he was in the ANC Youth League - and he was controlling the South African Revenue Service. "Rupert said the ANCYL is like an irritating mosquito in a room and it needs a 'Doom'. President Jacob Zuma became that 'Doom'." Asked to react to Malema's comment, Rupert laughed
Cape Town - The death of a former Bishops pupil and sandf officer has left his family with more questions than answers. Captain Mkhuseli Ndinisa, from site B Khayelitsha, travelled to the Free Sate for an officer’s training course at Tempe military base. He was based at 9 South African Infantry Battalion outside Cape Town. And on Thursday morning, his family received a call to say he was dead. His brother, Siphelo Ndinisa, on Saturday described his 36-year-old brother’s death as an “absolute mystery”. “It leaves us with many more questions than answers.” Ndinisa said Mkhuseli went to Bloemfontein on Sunday evening with friends. “According to his friends, he disappeared after crossing the street.
The only Nigerians who pronounce the name of their country correctly are foreign-born Nigerians-or Nigerians who were socialized outside their country, or whose exposure and education cause them to be guarded and self-conscious about their pronunciation. The name "Nigeria," as most people know, isn't native to the languages spoken by the people who populate the area; it's an anglicized Latin word that denotes blackness. The name emerged when British colonizers named the longest river that courses through our country "River Niger." Before British colonizers called it River Niger, precolonial Nigerians called (and still call) it by different names. When it came time to name the polity that British colonizers cobbled together, they decided to name it "Niger area," in honor of River Niger.
View class yearbooks online free. Reminisce & buy a reprint today.
No single family should determine the fate of all South Africans, Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan said on Sunday. Speaking at the African National Congress-organised “Opinion Makers’ Forum” at his former school, Sastri College in Greyville, Durban, he said there was a “desperation in modern politics that made people want to discredit people who tried to do what was right”. In an apparent reference to the politically-connected Gupta family, Gordhan said: “No single family must determine the fate of 55 million South Africans. This is a phenomenon called cronyism. It is not unique to South Africa but we need a South African formula to fix it. “We can’t sacrifice democracy because a few people think
Apple today unveiled a smaller, cheaper iPhone aimed at emerging markets. Apple Inc Apple Apple Inc refuse cheaper iPhone idea Apple iPhone SE CALIFORNIA - Apple Inc on Monday unveiled a smaller, cheaper iPhone aimed at emerging markets and possibly China, the world’s biggest buyer of smartphones, as the technology company looks to reverse a decline in worldwide sales of its most important product. The new device, called the iPhone SE, has a 10 cm screen and represents Apple’s second bid for the crowded mid-tier market after an unsuccessful foray three years ago. The more compact phone design comes after it’s expanded the size of the screens in its high-end iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus phones in
Madrid – Jose Mourinho signed a pre-contract in February to take over as manager of Manchester United in place of Louis van Gaal at the end of the season, Spanish newspaper El Pais reported on Sunday, citing sources close to the Portuguese. Former Chelsea, Real Madrid and Inter Milan coach Mourinho has been persistently linked in the media with the Old Trafford job since departing Stamford Bridge for the second time in December. Under the terms of the agreement, the report said, United would have to pay Mourinho five million pounds ($7.24 million) if they did not offer him a full contract by May 1 and another 10 million pounds if they failed to give him the job by June 1. Van Gaal signed a three-year
What’s on your Credit Report? Now you can see it all, absolutely free. Because at freecreditreport.com, free means free.
Durban - Two women were killed and three people were injured when Premier Senzo Mchunu’s bodyguards lost control of their vehicle at about 8pm on Friday on the N2 near KwaDukuza. Nonto Ximba and teacher Buhi Hadebe and three others were travelling to Durban in a Toyota Yaris when the collision with the “blue light” Ford Ranger occurred. Ximba and Hadebe’s families were too traumatised by their deaths to speak to the media yesterday. The other three landed in hospital. The bodyguards, part of Mchunu’s VIP security unit, were slightly injured. Their names have not been released. Spokesman Ndabezinhle Sibiya said the men were on their way to Mchunu’s house to prepare for the next shift. He said
Durban - It is like a scene from a movie. A young girl spends years trying to find her biological father, and when she does, there’s an emotional reunion. For Carrie Vuyx from Richards Bay, on the KwaZulu-Natal north coast, that is exactly what happened. Her story will soon be aired on Broadcast channel TLC as part of its new show Separated at Birth which premiered on Tuesday. Vuyx, 28, met her father Bryn Flavell at a train station in West Midlands, England, in January after seven years trying to track him down. When Flavell and Vuyx’s mother, Sharon Booth, separated in 1991, she decided to bring her 3-year-old to South Africa to live with her grandparents. According to Vuyx, her mother told
From relative obscurity, Christopher Mutsvangwa and his wife Monica rose to become one of Zimbabwe's political power couples. Mutsvangwa gained prominence in 2014 following his leading role in the dismantling of former vice-president Joice Mujuru's Zanu PF faction after claims that she was plotting to oust President Robert Mugabe. The former Zimbabwe ambassador to China had become so powerful that at one time he had the temerity to chide his then boss Foreign Affairs minister Samuel Mumbengegwi in public. Monica was a rising star in Zanu PF women's league led by First Lady Grace Mugabe. However, like dew, their power seemed to disappear in the mid-morning summer heat following a politburo decision
Take A Look At The Trucks Of 2016. See How They Compare To Each Other. Search For New Dodge Trucks.
Former govt spokesman Themba Maseko says he’ll be the first to make submissions towards the investigation. Gupta family Gupta Gupta ministerial job offers ANC NEC ANC NEC meeting State Capture JOHANNESBURG – As African National Congress (ANC) Secretary General Gwede Mantashe waits to see who will approach him with claims against the Gupta family, former government spokesperson Themba Maseko said he will be among the first to give his submission. Mantashe at the weekend said he will politically protect anyone who comes forward with evidence after the ANC’s National Executive Committee (NEC) agreed his office should investigate the claims before taking them to the National Working Committee (NWC).
Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas’s could have declined the invitation from the start, says Madala Thepa. Johannesburg - Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas’s confession is rare in politics. In some circles it is called wimping out. Nonetheless it was lifted-eyebrow-stuff and a scene-stealer from the disorienting 27 questions Pravin Gordhan has yet to answer. But what is important, those badly constructed questions or saving the economy? The sentiment in the statement issued by the Gupta family following Jonas’s famous confession is also interesting to read. But the sentiment is never explicit. It implies that Jonas has made some unknown missteps as deputy minister and that infractions
This is to honour the same number of black people killed by police on 21 March, 56 years ago. Human Rights Day Sharpeville Sharpeville massacre JOHANNESBURG - The Ahmed Kathrada and the Nelson Mandela foundations have organised 69 white people to honour and celebrate the same number of black people who were killed when police opened fire on protesters in Sharpeville 56 years ago. Hundreds more were wounded during a peaceful protest in Sharpeville on this day in 1960, during which demonstrators burnt their pass books. Thousands of people have joined Gauteng Premier David Makhura, provincial officials and the families of those who were killed, at the Sharpeville Cricket Pitch to commemorate the
Recent research reveals that 70% of heart attacks are caused by something no one could’ve expected…
The Dominican Order of Southern Africa wrote to Madonsela on Friday morning‚ and her office confirmed in the afternoon that she would launch a preliminary probe into whether she had the jurisdiction and the grounds to conduct a full investigation. Father Brian Mhlanga‚ the order’s communications head‚ told TMG Digital that their request was made “in the light of transparency and accountability”. Mhlanga said the organisation – which has at its core a desire to “communicate the Good News of love‚ peace‚ joy and justice for all” – was delighted that Madonsela had heeded their request. Madonsela’s office said that it had received the request to investigate “the involvement of the Gupta family in state affairs and the award of contracts to companies linked to the family”.