2014-01~03
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Beijing-arrests-three-suspects-in-Kunming-massacre-30459.html

CHINA Beijing arrests three suspects in Kunming massacre
Kunming (
AsiaNews / Agencies) - Chinese police have identified a man, Abdurehim Kurban,
as the mastermind behind the massacre that took place on 1 March in the Kunming
railway station, and has also arrested three suspects. The
move was reported today to Xinhua,
the official government agency, citing the Ministry of Public Security. Eight
people - including two women - were responsible for the attack, which resulted
in 29
deaths and more than 130 injured. Four
suspects were killed on the spot by police and one woman was injured and
captured. The
Ministry has not clarified whether Kurban is among those arrested or who dies at
the scene.

Meanwhile,
Beijing continues to insist that the Kunming attack was "a terrorist
attack organized by Xinjiang separatists". 
Xinjiang is the autonomous northern region that is home to the ethnic Uyghur,
Turkic speaking Muslims. Foreign
Ministry spokesman Qin Gang said that the flags of the separatist forces of
East Turkistan (the independent region that the Uyghurs want to create - ed) were
found at the scene yesterday.

Yesterday,
at the opening of the Chinese
People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) about 2 thousand
delegates observed a minute of silence for the victims. There
were only two other occasions in which the CPPCC stopped to commemorate
something: in 1949 for the martyrs of the Revolution and in 1997 on the death
of Deng Xiaoping.

Dilxat
Raxit, spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress , asked the Chinese government
to be "more transparent" in its investigation and not to use it
"as an excuse to crack down on the Uyghur people".
AsiaNews spoke to Josephine, one of hundreds of Christians from Al-Hasakah, who spent a year in the hands of the Islamic State group. She talked about psychological suffering, conversion attempts, and separation from her male relatives. She survived thanks to her faith. Her mother Caroline, a Caritas official, is the only one in her family to have been spared the ordeal. She also negotiated their release with IS, and gave a Jihadi copies of the Bible. Now she hopes “to meet the pope” with her entire family.
Sister Rani Maria was killed in 1995, stabbed 54 times. The murderer was a radical Hindu, incited by village leaders, who wanted to stop the nun's activities in favor of tribal poor. The path "that led me to forgive Samunder Singh has not been easy, but now he's my brother." Instead, "my mother said once: 'I would kiss his hands, because on them there is the blood of my daughter'." The exchange of the Indian bracelet that celebrates love between siblings; the moment of encounter with the victim's mother.

 
2003 © All rights reserved - AsiaNews C.F. e P.Iva: 00889190153 - GLACOM®
Copyright ÂŠ 2003 AsiaNews C.F. 00889190153 All rights reserved. Content on this site is made available for personal, non-commercial use only. You may not reproduce, republish, sell or otherwise distribute the content or any modified or altered versions of it without the express written permission of the editor. Photos on AsiaNews.it are largely taken from the internet and thus considered to be in the public domain. Anyone contrary to their publication need only contact the editorial office which will immediately proceed to remove the photos.