2014-01~03
http://www.bendbulletin.com/home/1887309-151/nation-world-briefing

Nation & World briefing;
Prisoner finally recaptured — In the nearly 40 years after he escaped from the maximum-security military prison at Fort Leavenworth, convicted killer James Robert Jones carved out a new life for himself in Florida, living under an assumed name, getting married and working for an air conditioning company. It all came to an end this week when Jones — or Bruce Walter Keith, as the former Army private was known in Florida — was recaptured with the help of technology that was more sci-fi than reality when he broke out during the disco era: facial-recognition software. “The first words out of his mouth were, ‘I knew this would catch up with me someday,’” Barry Golden, a senior inspector with the U.S. Marshals Service, said Friday. Jones, 59, was one of the Army’s 15 most-wanted fugitives after his 1977 escape from the Kansas prison dubbed “The Castle” for its large walls and tower keeps.
Rwandan chief convicted — Paris court delivered France’s first-ever conviction for genocide Friday, sentencing a Rwandan former intelligence chief to 25 years in prison over the 1994 killings of at least 500,000 people in the African country. The landmark trial of 54-year-old Pascal Simbikangwa sets off what could be the first of dozens of French trials into one of the 20th century’s greatest atrocities — two decades after it happened — and provides a judicial reckoning for a former colonial power that still has many ties to African countries like Mali, Central African Republic and beyond.
Malnutrition in Syria — Trapped in her northern Syrian village by fighting, Mervat watched her newborn baby progressively shrink. Her daughter’s dark eyes seemed to grow bigger as her face grew more skeletal. Finally, Mervat escaped to neighboring Lebanon, and a nurse told her the girl was starving. Her daughter Shurouk has been undergoing treatment the past three months and remains a wispy thing. The 9-month-old weighs 7 pounds — though she’s become more smiley and gregarious. Mervat spoke on condition she be identified only by her first name, fearing problems for her family in Syria. Her case underscored how dramatically Syrian society has unraveled from a conflict that this weekend enters its fourth year. Such stark starvation was once rare in Syria, where President Bashar Assad’s autocratic state ran a health system that provided nearly free care.
Clinton records — Sensing a Republican tidal wave, President Bill Clinton worried in the summer of 1994 that Republicans were energized heading into the midterm elections while his Democratic base was deflated. “There’s no organization, there’s no energy, there’s no anything out there,” Clinton said of his own party. Clinton’s concerns turned out to be justified: Republicans swept to power in the fall elections, wresting control of the House and Senate from the president’s party. The transcript was among 4,000 documents released Friday by the National Archives. They’re just part of the roughly 30,000 pages expected to be released in coming weeks. The documents, which cover Clinton’s two presidential terms, are much anticipated in the political world, partly because then-first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton is considering her own bid for the presidency in 2016.
Thailand raid — Thai police officers raiding a jungle camp in the hills of southern Thailand have detained about 220 people suspected of being ethnic Uighurs fleeing China, two-thirds of them women and children, according to a Thai police officer and reports in the Thai news media on Friday. The nighttime raid took place Wednesday at a rubber plantation in Songkhla province, which is a common transit point for ethnic Rohingya boat people, mostly Muslims, fleeing violence and discrimination in Myanmar. The police thought they were entering a Rohingya camp, but came across people insisting that they were from Turkey. Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking, mostly Muslim people in the western region of Xinjiang in China, and they often complain about discrimination by the ethnic Han, who rule China.
Murder plot — A retired New York high school librarian and a New Jersey auto mechanic were convicted Friday of scheming to carry out gruesome fantasies of kidnapping, raping, torturing and killing women and girls. The verdicts in Christopher Asch and Michael Van Hise’s conspiracy trial came a year after a conviction in a headline-grabbing case of a police officer accused of plotting abductions and cannibalism. A fourth man, a former hospital police chief, pleaded guilty in January.
Panhandler beating — The co-founder of frozen yogurt chain Pinkberry was sentenced Friday to seven years in prison for beating a homeless man with a tire iron, an attack a Los Angeles judge declared “fairly merciless” and “horrendous.” Dressed in an orange, jail-issued jump suit, Young Lee stared straight ahead as Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Henry Hall handed down the maximum penalty the 49-year-old faced. A jury in November convicted Lee — who helped found Pinkberry in 2005 but is no longer involved with the company — of assault.






 
 
 When Eric Bramwell returned from Iraq in 2007, 55 soldiers in his 
 
 








... more








 
 
 Humm Kombucha LLC, the beverage company founded in a Bend kitchen in 
 
 








... more








 
 
 High atop Cascade peaks, where mountaineering and science meet on some of 
 
 








... more








 
 
 The family of a woman who died after being given the wrong 
 
 








... more








 
 
 County and state law enforcement officers found a Bend man Monday night 
 
 








... more


Explore more of Central Oregon with a subscription to The Bulletin.