2014-01~03
http://www.japantoday.com/category/world/view/wild-theories-fill-void-left-by-missing-malaysian-plane

Wild theories fill void left by missing Malaysian plane ‹ Japan Today: Japan News and Discussion
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday.
Letters and numbers only; 5 to 50 characters. This cannot be changed later.
You will be sent an email to activate your account before you can log in.
Yes, I would like to receive news alerts from JapanToday
I agree to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Some of these theories are pretty crazy but some things have emerged about the plane being way off course and the ID beacon being turned off. Also a report about the co-pilot, in a previous incident,allowing a woman into the cockpit during a flight (she claims to have photos and videos)
With the absence of physical evidence, people are left to speculation which also reveals a growing distrust in authorities. Add to that the many sci-fi half-truths and superstitions, and you get the elven hijacking. Another (extremely remote) possibility is that the aircraft inadvertently passed through a rift in the space-time continuum, a portal to a parallel dimension...
No, I don't believe any of those cockamamy stories. Eventually, the truth will surface. It may have crashed at very high speed into a dense jungle and been obliterated.
Shot down by a military jet. Blown up by terrorists. Hijacked by elves.
Dunno what really happened to the airliner, but I think we can all safely rule out the "hijacked by elves" theory.
One news source, Huffpost, reported that military radar tracked it for hundreds of miles after it "disappeared," and that it went west and then south, before completely disappearing.
Cool! A NEW Bermuda triangle?? Well, that is all we need!!
While this is a truly unique story - When was the last time an airplane just "disappeared" off the radar - until it is actually found, it's all speculation and popular theories, which are worthless.
@kansaifun, don't know the last time this kind of thing happened, but in the history of commercial aviation there are cases with very little wreckage recovered. In recent days, there has been some good reporting about a 1950s airline that went into Lake Michigan, with some debris indicating what happened (58 fatalities), but the bulk of the plane going undiscovered until today. The only people who have kept up the search are a few writers/explorers who specialize in discovering wrecks. Lake Michigan is obviously nowhere near as deep or as vast as the mostly unexplored Pacific, so it is plausible that this is another plane that will fail to turn up in our lifetimes. On the other hand, it took two years to reach the Air France wreck five years ago, thanks to an unmanned submarine that could descend to mountains on the bottom of the Atlantic.
When was the last time an airplane just "disappeared" off the radar
2009, AF447. Lost contact over the Atlantic, no wreckage found for 2 days, couldn't locate the bulk of the wreckage for 2 years.
Rare, but it happens. Going to be hard to find if it was way off course.
If I know our Chinese amigos, they really love any conspiracy theories, so my guess on the Chinese version of FB etc..the Muslim terrorist elves with UFOs will be Number 1 on that list??
Philip Seymour Hoffman was assassinated to propitiate the elves in Mt. Fuji. When Malaysian Airlines tried to get the truth out with their call letters--MH370, or "murdered Hoffman"--the plane was downed. 370 indicates Hoffman's date of death of Feb. 2nd, or 2-2: Seven minus three minus zero = 4 = 2+2. Wake up sheeple!
"Chinese media have reported family members calling relatives on the missing flight and hearing the mobile phones ring out before being mysteriously hung up. Others claimed to have seen relatives still logged onto Chinese social messaging apps such as QQ, and of getting no response to their messages."
This suggests that something was happening inside the airplane that didn't affect the mobile phones, but abruptly rendered the people on the plane incapable of using them. This could happen if the plane suddenly filled with smoke, and or moved violently in the air, and or went into a steep dive. The cause could have been due to a mechanical or structural failure, or due to an explosion or impact with a flying object.
Since there were no further communications, a logical assumption is that the airplane never recovered from this sudden overwhelming emergency, and crashed into the ocean. If it entered the water at a shallow angle so the fuselage remained intact as it sank, that could explain why no wreckage has been found floating on the surface.
Initially lost in Vietnam now lost in straits of malacca so maybe cannot be found.
"
 so my guess on the Chinese version of FB etc..the Muslim terrorist elves with UFOs will be Number 1 on that list?
 "
That is the most plausible among all the various theories, but that is not saying much. At this point nobody knows, so it is high season for speculation.
I am sort of partial to the "hijacked elfes" thing...
This suggests that something was happening inside the airplane that didn't affect the mobile phones, but abruptly rendered the people on the plane incapable of using them.
No, it indicates that the networks are not actually connecting the calls. Phones do ring if you call even if the recipient has the phone off.
There is unlikely to be a handy cellphone tower that far out into the South China Sea.
News this morning says the military are denying rumours they tracked the plane going off course. An eye-witness on an oil rig says he saw something on fire in the early morning sky. And regardless of whether the plane was in cell phone range, it was in radio contact just before it disappeared. All clues pointing to a sudden catastrophic end. They need to search the area more intensely with ships to locate underwater signals from the on board emergency transmitters.
It looks more and more like it may have been hijacked and may have been flown to some yet unknown location.
Flying is all well, but it has to land after a few hours, and there are not many places to put down a jumbo jet. It it not like you can land this thing somewhere in a jungle clearing...
"If it entered the water at a shallow angle so the fuselage remained intact as it san"
That is extremely unlikely. Experienced investigators and pilots all say that the risk of the plane with underwing engine nacelles disintegrating upon impact with the ocean/waves is close to 100%. Very unlikely it could remain intact. Only planes with rear-mounted engines have any chance of staying intact and afloat long enough to even launch rafts.
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday.
The Japanese word 'darashinai' comes to mind with this never was singer.
Posted in: Madonna again criticized by Australian fans for stage behavior
Schindler is a German company and I thought they specialised in elevators not escalators.
Posted in: Woman breaks wrist after escalator suddenly stops at subway station

 I believe the maker of the escalator was Schindler.


So? What is the point about who…
Posted in: Woman breaks wrist after escalator suddenly stops at subway station
Just another wardrobe malfunction. ;)

The Girl was continuously pulling her dress up in the Video…
Posted in: Madonna again criticized by Australian fans for stage behavior

 People have to remember that the U.S. Military are not guests of the people of Okinawa,…
Posted in: Thousands protest in Okinawa over alleged rape by U.S. serviceman