2014-01~03
http://news.asiaone.com/news/asia/last-3-suspects-caught-kunming-manhunt

Last 3 suspects caught in Kunming manhunt, AsiaOne Asia News
The three remaining suspects wanted in connection with Saturday's Kunming terrorist attack have been arrested, the Ministry of Public Security said on Monday, as a call was made for a national law to combat terrorism.





 

A group of eight wielding large knives killed 29 people and injured more than 140 at Kunming Railway Station in Yunnan province.
Four male suspects were shot dead and one woman was arrested at the scene. The remaining two men and one woman were arrested on Monday afternoon, police said, without providing details.
The attack has been widely condemned by the international community, Chinese officials, political advisers and lawmakers, with at least one lawmaker saying a national anti-terror law should be enacted.
"China urgently needs a comprehensive national law to combat terrorist attacks, as threats from terrorists, especially those based in Central Asia, have become extremely serious," said Nayim Yasen, a deputy from the Xinjiang delegation to the National People's Congress.
Nayim Yasen will submit a motion to this effect to the National People's Congress, the country's top legislature, whose annual session begins in Beijing on Wednesday.
Xinjiang has begun preparations to introduce a regional anti-terrorism regulation, said Nayim Yasen, who is also president of Xinjiang Regional High Court.
The Party chief of the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region said on Monday that the anti-separatism battle is tougher than ever.
"We should realise that the revival of religious extremism internationally has contributed to the complicated anti-terrorism situation in China," Zhang Chunxian said at a meeting of the Xinjiang delegation to the 12th NPC. "It has caused many terrorist attacks around the world."
Get the latest news, opinion, trends, coverage, reports and more from AsiaOne—straight to your inbox! Or download our apps from Apple store or Google Play.