2014-01~03
http://www.nst.com.my/world/14-killed-in-china-mosque-stampede-xinhua-1.456172

World | New Straits Times | Malaysia General Business Sports and Lifestyle News
BRUSSELS, Belgium: A string of explosions rocked Brussels airport and a city metro station on Tuesday, killing at least 13 people, according to media reports, as Belgium raised its terror threat to the maximum level.
KUALA LUMPUR: The entire city of Brussels is currently under complete lockdown with all major public transportation now closed, following a series of explosions that rocked the European city.
BRUSSELS: An explosion was heard at Maelbeek metro station in Brussels, close to the EU institutions, Belgian broadcaster RTBF said, after explosions ripped through the departure hall at Brussels airport.
KARACHI: A security guard in Pakistan has shot dead an 11-year-boy wearing a monster mask who apparently startled him, officials said Monday.
ABUJA, Nigeria: About 20,000 people have been killed since the start of the Boko Haram insurgency in Borno State, according to a report from the World Bank that also put the cost of destruction at US$5.9 billion.
TOKYO: Major Japanese airports were crammed with thousands of passengers unable to take domestic flights Tuesday due to problems with airline computer systems.
SINGAPORE: Two maintenance staff of Singapore’s MRT operator SMRT have been killed after a track accident near Pasir Ris station along the East-West line, China’s Xinhua news agency reported, citing local media.
LOS ANGELES: Federal authorities are searching for a flight attendant they say ran from a security screening at Los Angeles International Airport, leaving behind about 70 pounds (31 kilograms) of cocaine stashed in her luggage.
WASHINGTON, USA: Plants respond a bit better to global warming than scientists had thought, according to a new study that suggests their potential contribution to worsening global warming is not likely as bad as researcher believed.
NAYPYIDAW, Myanmar: Aung San Suu Kyi was nominated to join the cabinet in Myanmar’s incoming government Tuesday, giving the democracy veteran a formal position in the administration, despite being blocked from the presidency.
JAKARTA, Indonesia:Thousands of Indonesian taxi and motorised rickshaw drivers Tuesday blocked major roads in the capital Jakarta, attacked vehicles and rallied outside parliament, in a violent protest against Uber and other ride-hailing apps.
SYDNEY: A 16-year-old schoolgirl was set to be charged Tuesday with raising money to support the Islamic State group, Australian police said, warning of a “trend of teenage children” involved in such activities.
BRUSSELS: A keen-eyed witness who spotted a pale, slender figure fleeing an apartment near a Brussels auto plant one week ago set in motion a vast police dragnet that within 72 hours led to the capture of Salah Abdeslam, the most-wanted man in Europe.
HAVANA: The future of Cuba will be decided by Cubans and no one else; Cuba has the right to be sovereign, said in Havana US President Barack Obama who is on an official visit in Cuba.
LOS ANGELES: A flight attendant fled when she was selected for a random screening at Los Angeles International Airport, prompting a search that turned up 66 pounds (30 kg) of cocaine in her carry-on bags, a Drug Enforcement Administration spokesman said on Monday.
HAVANA: The White House Monday all but ruled out a meeting between Barack Obama and veteran Cuban leader Fidel Castro during the US president’s trip to Cuba.
BAMAKO, Mali: Gunmen launched an attack Monday evening on the European Union military training mission’s headquarters in the Malian capital, Bamako, in what appeared to be the latest in a series of attacks on Western interests in the region.
LOS ANGELES: In a stunning disclosure, federal authorities said Monday that they may not need Apple Inc.’s help after all to unlock an iPhone used by one of the shooters in the San Bernardino terror attack.
JAKARTA: A 70-year-old Indonesian woman has been hacked to death in the remote east of the country by machete-wielding men who suspected her of performing witchcraft, police said Monday.
BELGRADE: A man blew himself up Monday in a bakery in the centre of the Serbian capital Belgrade, police said.
PARIS: French President Francois Hollande on Monday was set to hold his first formal meeting with victims of the November 13 attacks in Paris, three days after Belgian police captured key suspect Saleh Abdeslam.
DHAKA: Bangladesh on Monday banned boats from sailing through a key southwestern river after a ship loaded with coal capsized, threatening the sanctuaries of rare dolphins in the world’s largest mangrove forest.
DUBLIN: A bystander saved a baby after a car slid off a pier and plunged into the sea in Ireland, killing five people, including at least two children.
BRUSSELS: Belgian prosecutors on Monday said they had discovered the real identity of an accomplice in the Paris attacks, as they met with French counterparts to discuss the probe into November’s carnage.
JAKARTA: Thousands of Indonesian taxi drivers will take to the streets of the capital on Tuesday for a protest rally to demand the government prohibits ride-hailing apps like Grab and Uber, as a price war intensifies.
ATHENS: A total of 1,662 migrants have landed on Greek islands near Turkey since a landmark EU-Turkish deal on curbing the influx took effect on Sunday, a Greek coordination panel said Monday.
NEW YORK: Eli Berry cannot go to stores or restaurants without being asked if he is a man or a woman. A mall security guard once demanded that he show identification to use a public men’s room.
KOLKATA: Five people have been killed by wild elephants that went on the rampage, triggering panic in a village in eastern India, a local official said Monday.
NAYPYITAW: Myanmar democracy champion Aung San Suu Kyi will control the incoming government of her National League for Democracy (NLD) through her position as party leader, a senior official said, indicating she was unlikely to take a formal post in the administration.
SYDNEY: Environmental groups Monday urged greater action on climate change after the government declared the highest alert level over an epidemic of coral bleaching in the pristine northern reaches of Australia’s Great Barrier Reef.
GENEVA: Margarita Louis-Dreyfus, a Russian-born Swiss businesswoman who owns the French football club Olympique de Marseille, has given birth to twin girls at the age of 53, her spokeswoman said on Monday.
IPOH: The former director of St Michael Institution (SMI), Datuk Brother Vincent Corkery passed away today at Fatimah Hospital here.
KUALA LUMPUR: Pas’s powerful Syura Council has given the go-ahead for the Islamic party to cooperate with any party for the sake strengthening Islam, but ruled out the possibility of joining Barisan Nasional.
© 2014. New Straits Times Press (M) Berhad (4485-H). All Rights Reserved.