2014-01~03
http://www.thenews.com.pk/Todays-News-1-234882-China-arrests-Uighur-scholar-on-secession-charge

The News International: Latest News Breaking, Pakistan News
BRUSSELS: As many as 13 people were killed on Tuesday in explosions in Brussels and another 35 were severely injured, Belgian broadcaster VRT said.Shots were fired and there were shouts shortly before the explosions.
The blasts occurred four days after the... read more
ISLAMABAD: Pakistan on Tuesday strongly condemned terrorism in Belgium’s capital Brussels, that killed several people.
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif condemned the incident, saying that the world must put up a...
GENEVA/BEIRUT: The fate of President Bashar al-Assad will play no part in talks to end the Syrian war, the head of the government's delegation said, leading the UN peace envoy to warn that lack of progress on the issue...
SHANGHAI: China's film regulator has suspended the distribution license of a company accused of fraudulently boosting box office figures for the martial arts movie "Ip...
LONDON: European stocks fell on Tuesday and safe-haven assets, gold and government bonds rose in price after two explosions at Brussels airport.
Travel sector stocks...
BENGALURU:  Australia survived another middle-order collapse to beat Bangladesh by three wickets in the World Twenty20 Super 10 on Monday to get their campaign up and running.
Both teams were looking to bounce...
Visitors, many dressed in white, trudge up the steps of the Pyramid of the Sun, north of Mexico City, on Sunday to catch the first rays of the day and to celebrate the...
DHAKA: Bangladesh confirmed on Tuesday its first case of the Zika virus in an old sample of blood from a 67-year old man who had not been overseas, health ministry...
With less than a week to go before Zack Snyder’s Batman v Superman: Dawn of...
After making a mark at last year’s edition of South by Southwest (SXSW)...
Currently, the weather in Dubai is to die for and the presence of Bollywood...
After her brave confrontation on a recent talk show with a journalist, who...
The Fahad Mustafa and Iman Ali starrer has been in the midst of innumerable...
The teaser of Reham Khan’s much-hyped co-production Janaan is out and it...
COMMENT
Pleasant words always soothe the audience. Each person is hid behind...
ENERGY
To help address the local and national power supply shortfalls, Azad...
FUEL
Pakistan’s current estimated population is 185 million and it is...
FINANCE
You might want to consider firing your money manager in favour of a...
FOCUS
The government is all set to muscle the bill converting national...
INSIGHT
Now that the amnesty scheme has failed, the government’s focus...
 The hymn of a cat
Make the world your playground
Whenever you miss the...
I don’t want to marry my fiancé
Hi Guru,
I am a 24-year-old...
Coming Soon
Out this week:
Albums

This Is What the Truth Feels Like by...
 

Date of birth and star
January 7; Capricorn
The best thing about...
CLF – a bird’s eye view
“There are days you’re going...
Famous Romantic poets who died young
John Keats
He was a contemporary of...
Make some space for women
We celebrated International Women’s Day a few...
Want clear and healthy skin? All you have to do is look around your kitchen...
Rizwan Ali Jaffri
We have seen him on ramps and on our television screens. It...
The eighth year!
We all know that Ladiesfund, established in 2007, is an...
Summer has brought with it an array of designer lawns - offering 
exciting...