2014-01~03
http://www.hospitalitynet.org/news/4063762.html

Jin Jiang International Hotels To Open Yue Xing Jin Jiang International Hotel Kashi, Kashgar, Xinjiang Province, China
Jin Jiang International Hotel Management Co. Ltd.6F, 889 South Yang Gao Road,Pudong Shanghai , 200127ChinaPhone: +86-21-20375000Fax: +86-21-20375380Send Email
Aline Siobhan DaviesSenior Manager, Corporate CommunicationsPhone: +86 21 20375024Send Email
Jin Jiang International Hotels officially announces the opening of Yue Xing Jin Jiang 
International Hotel Kashi and is currently scheduled to open in March, 2014. The hotel is 
situated in Kashgar, Xinjiang province, China's westernmost city bordering five countries 
-Afghanistan, India, Pakistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
Conveniently located in Kashgar, it will be within easy access to all the main 
transportation links and will serve as an ideal base from which visitors can explore the 
city. Kashgar is a large oasis and continues to be a key city and important trading point 
along the Silk Road, and has a long rooted Muslim heritage with a population 
predominantly of Muslim Uyghurs. Kashgar's Old City, is one of the most well preserved 
traditional Islamic city's in Central Asia and offers many attractions from the largest 
mosque in China, the Id Kah Mosque, to an 18m high statue of Chairman Mao, and the 
Kashgar Grand Bizarre, with over 2000 years of history, it is renowned as one of the 
biggest markets in Central Asia.
This five-star luxury hotel and will cover an area of 32,600 square meters and feature 
323 well-appointed, elegantly designed and spacious guestrooms and suites, equipped 
with modern, high-end amenities. The hotel will feature a range of multi-functional 
rooms to host conferences, meetings, special events and high-end banquets. There will 
be several dining options including a Teppanyaki restaurant and a restaurant serving a 
combination of gourmet Chinese cuisines including traditional Xinjiang dishes. The 
Chinese restaurant will have 15 private dining rooms with a capacity to accommodate up 
to 110 people. Additional facilities are to include a fully equipped business center, a 
luxurious modern fitness center, heated indoor swimming pool, spa, beauty salon and 
games room.
Mr. Simon Zhang, Chief Executive Officer of Jin Jiang International Hotel's states,
"We look forward to and welcome the opening of Yue Xing Jin Jiang International Hotel 
Kashi which will be joining our growing portfolio of properties and expansion towards the 
Northwest China region. It will be the first Jin Jiang branded five-star hotel to open in 
Kashgar, therefore building a strong brand presence in the city. Kashgar is fast 
becoming a thriving destination attracting a growing number of leisure and business 
visitors, and our luxury hotel will set the bench mark for top quality services in the 
region."
Jin Jiang International Hotel Management Company Ltd. (Jin Jiang International Hotels) has a portfolio of over 120 distinctive star rated hotels with a room inventory of over 36,000 hotel rooms spread across 77 cities in China. Under the Jin Jiang branding concept, the company has a new premium "J" hotel brand, five star luxury properties and four star business properties.
Jin Jiang International Holdings Company Ltd. ("Jin Jiang" or the "Group"), is China's premier hospitality conglomerate, owner, developer and operator of hotels across all market segments. The Group manages, through its wholly owned subsidiary Jin Jiang International Hotel Management Company Ltd., the entire portfolio of owned and/or operated four and five-star hotels and its sister company Jin Jiang Inn which focuses on budget hotels. Jin Jiang International Hotels (Group) Company Ltd. is the leading operator and manager of hotels in China. Overall, the Group owns and operates a collection of over 1,566 distinctive hotels and inns in more than 280 cities and towns within 31 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities across China with a total room inventory in excess of 235,000 and is ranked as the 9th largest hotel company globally.
Every Jin Jiang hotel is a memorable reflection of its destination's unique style and culture. Jin Jiang International Hotels, with its qualified hotel management background and passion for excellence, dedicates itself to offering reputable hospitality services to its valued customers. With experience originating from the 1920s, its core competitiveness has accelerated in recent years. Together, the professional corporate and hotel management teams have extensive international hospitality experiences and backgrounds. This renowned company is rapidly growing and continues to strengthen and build its brand presence in China in addition to building into a strong internationally known brand.