2014-01~03
http://www.aljazeera.com/humanrights/2014/01/china-detains-high-profile-uighur-activist-201411693813939179.html

China detains high-profile Uighur activist - Al Jazeera English
Meet the refugees who fled Syria for the Gaza Strip
Chinese police have detained one of the country's most high-profile outspoken critics of state policies in the restive far-western region of Xinjiang, which is home to the Muslim ethnic Uighur minority group, the government said on Thursday.
Wednesday's detention, made on suspicion that Ilham Tohti "broke the law", is the latest indication of the government's increasing hardline stance on dissent surrounding Xinjiang, where a series of violent riots in the past year have killed at least 91 people, rights activists say.
Police in Beijing seized Tohti, a prominent Uighur economist who has championed the rights of the Uighur community in Xinjiang, at his home and his whereabouts were unknown, his wife and close friend told the Reuters news agency.
Guzaili Nu'er, Tohti's wife, said that about 30 police officers raided their home in Beijing on Wednesday afternoon, during a six-hour operation in which they seized his computer, mobile phone and some of his students' theses."Of course I wish he could come back home as soon as possible. What I also want to say is this time (the police raid) was different from previous times. This is the first time they have come with so many people," Nu'er said during an interview at their Beijing home on Thursday.
Many resent what they see as oppressive treatment by the government, though Beijing says they are granted wide religious, cultural and linguistic freedoms.
Tohti, an economics professor at Beijing's Minzu University which specialises in ethnic minority studies, told Reuters inNovember that state security agents had physically threatened him for speaking to foreign reporters.
Nicholas Bequelin, a senior researcher at Human Rights Watch, said that Tohti's detention reflected a harder stance that Chinese President Xi Jinping has taken on Xinjiang. State media called this a "strategy shift" from development to maintaining social stability.
Bequelin said Tohti could be charged with "incitement for separatism", which carries a maximum sentence of life imprisonment.
"The test of what constitutes incitement of separatism is anything that opposes ethnic harmony," he said.
Tohti, Bequelin said, was "an intellectual trying to get the state to see objectively what the situation is".
"He wants to tell truth to power," he said. "I cannot see anything that he has written or done that can be construed asendangering state security. But the outcome is a foregone conclusion."
Violence in China's Xinjiang Province fuels online debate over the role of ethnic Uighurs.
Culture, clashes and crackdowns in restive Xinjiang on display at Beijing museum, inciting rare public discourse.

 Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
 are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
 or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
 global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
 accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.

A crew of underground rappers in Havana fight for a free Cuba by taking the young to task over their apathy.
Aboriginal communities taking their cases against oil pipeline and seismic testing to Supreme Court of Canada.
Who dies and where they were shot determines how much attention their deaths get and how many questions are asked.
The Gulf’s ace women's tennis player is putting the region on the world tennis map and eyeing an historic Olympic spot.
Violence in China's Xinjiang Province fuels online debate over the role of ethnic Uighurs.
Culture, clashes and crackdowns in restive Xinjiang on display at Beijing museum, inciting rare public discourse.
Up to 13 people reportedly killed at Zaventem airport, shortly before another blast strikes central Maelbeek station.
At unprecedented joint news conference, US and Cuban presidents go toe-to-toe on human rights and economic punishment.
Nigeria's first female mechanic views her country through the prism of opportunity and enterprise for women.
Latin American migrants risk life and limb to reach the US border in search of the American dream.
The incredible story of 18 cows that became Israel's most wanted fugitives and symbols of Palestinian resistance.