2014-01~03
http://www.turkishpress.com/news/395360/

HR groups want Thais to protect 'Uighur Muslims'
Refugees, who say they are 'Turks' and have asked to be relocated to Turkey, found hiding in Thai rubber plantation
BANGKOK - Human Rights groups called Saturday for Thailand to protect 220 ethnic "Uighur Muslims" found hiding in a rubber plantation in southern Thailand several days ago. 
The refugees say they are "Turks" and have asked to be relocated to Turkey, 
The calls came after representatives of the Turkish embassy – and China – flew to Songkhla in the country's south to talk to the refugees, believed to have fled from Xinjiang, the mainly Muslim province in western China. 
The United Nations refugee agency wants access to the 220 people, now being held in a Thai immigration detention centre. The group, which was found at a suspected people smugglers' camp on Wednesday, includes 82 children.
Human Rights Watch representative Sunai Phasuk told the Anadolu Agency on Saturday that the refugees should not be forcibly returned to Xinjiang, "given the Chinese government’s long record of mistreating Uighur Muslims, including those arrested and sent back from overseas while trying to seek asylum."
Officials from the Turkish Embassy in Bangkok - and self-proclaimed teacher Erkin Ezizi, who flew from Ankara and arrived in southern Thailand on the same flight as the Turkish diplomats - visited the immigration office in Songkhla where they were held Friday.
When asked if the refugees were Turkish citizens, Ahmet Akay, the deputy chief of mission from the Embassy, told the Anadolu Agency: “Ethnicity and citizenship are two different thing. This is a humanitarian situation.”
The refugees greeted the arrival of Akay and the Turkish entourage with cheers, some hugging Ezizi with tears in their eyes. 
Ezizi was traveling on a Turkish passport but a Thai translator said, judging from his dialect, he may have been an ethnic Uighur living in Turkey. 
The refugees had said little to local authorities prior to the arrival of the entourage. 
Thai police have said they believe the group was waiting to be smuggled by a human trafficking ring across the border to Malaysia, which is predominantly Muslim.
Fears that the "Uighurs" - if proven, a Turkic-speaking ethnic minority group who have accused the Chinese of government of human rights violations and discrimination against them - may be forcibly flown back to China have been exacerbated by the forced return of groups from Xinjiang seeking passage to a third country that have been flown back from Southeast Asian countries over recent years, including Malaysia and Cambodia.
Human Rights Watch said it was common for people fleeing China to head to Southeast Asia and that there had been multiple incidents of Uighurs being forcibly returned to Xinjiang – even though this was a violation of international law.
"In December 2009, Cambodia forcibly returned 20 Uighurs despite the fact that the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) had already issued ‘persons of concern’ letters to all members of the group. Subsequent media reports, which could not be independently verified, stated tat some members of that group were tried and sentenced to death, while others were sentenced to prison,” HRW said in a statement.
Malaysia also deported six Uighur men on December 31, 2012 – a move that drew strong condemnation from rights groups and other countries.
"Pervasive ethnic discrimination, severe religious repression, and increasing cultural suppression – justified by the Chinese government in the name of the ‘fight against separatism, religious extremism, and terrorism’ – continue to fuel rising tensions in Xinjiang," HRW said. 
The rights group said Beijing imposed heavy and arbitrary restrictions on Uighurs’ ability to obtain passports, and the recent arrest of Uighur economist Ilham Tohti, a moderate advocate of the rights of Uighurs in China, suggested a crackdown on peaceful dissent in Xinijang.
"The attribution of recent attacks on Tiananmen Square in Beijing and on Kunming’s train station to alleged Uighur separatists has in turn increased tensions in the region, and will likely contribute to an increased outflow of Uighurs from China," HRW said.
Thai authorities have informed Chinese diplomats in Bangkok about the new group and officials are reported to have said that they should be sent back to where they came from.
However, a spokeswoman for the UNHCR in Bangkok said the agency wants to find out more about them and would work with the Thai authorities to ensure they can stay temporarily while their background and needs are assessed.
Vivian Tan said:  "We are talking to the Thai authorities to make sure that they .. [are] not prematurely sent elsewhere before we have a chance to assess their situation."
She said UNHCR officials would discuss the need the international protection with Thai authorities and the international community "to see what longer term solutions can be found".
The "refugees" were found residing in a remote camp surrounded by a rubber plantation late Wednesday night and were immediately relocated to a Thai detention centre.
Authorities initially tried to separate the women and children from the men and placed them at a government-run Child Protection Centre at a nearby district, but the men refused to permit them to do so.
In what appeared to be a related incident, Malaysian border officials detained 62 self-proclaimed “Turks” suspected of entering Malaysia illegally on its northern border with Thailand.
They were spotted on the Thai-Malaysian border fence at about 5:30am on Thursday.
Malaysian authorities are still to comment on the nationality of the "Turks."
*Anadolu Agency Correspondents Arnaud Dubus, Don Pathan and Chan Kok Leong contributed to this story from Thailand and Malaysia, respectively.
Spanish Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo is expected to visit the Gaza Strip on Tuesday as part of a regional tour that will also take him to Jordan, Israel and the occupied West Bank
The Israeli army is conducting drills in the West Bank in anticipation for a possible deterioration in security conditions this year, Israeli military sources said.
Palestinian resistance movement Hamas has slammed U.S. criticisms of a recent visit to Turkey by group leader Khaled Meshaal as 'rude'
Shiite Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah has urged countries of the Islamic world to resist the proliferation of 'Takfiri' groups in the Middle East
Man suspected of having been involved in killing of French policewoman seizes women and children in a kosher supermarket, French police report
Israeli authorities are set to reopen the Erez border crossing with the Gaza Strip on Friday, the Palestinian border authority has said
Thousands gather for second straight night at Place de La Republique in French capital
Moroccan ambassador to Egypt Mohamed Saad el-Alami returned to Cairo Thursday after a 6-day vacation, two diplomats have confirmed
A local Nigerian official has denied reports about a fresh Boko Haram assault on the north-eastern Baga town, where militants overran a military base last week
Ministry of Foreign Affairs says SU-34 was in Turkey's airspace; Moscow denies claim; Turkish Air Force steps up security
Ahmet Davutoglu says country exercised its 'international right and national duty' in protecting its borders
Foreign minister calls off Istanbul trip over downing of Russian warplane
Military says aircraft 'of unknown nationality' given 10 warnings in five minutes over airspace breach
Condolences from around the world are continuing to pour into Turkey following Saturday’s horrific twin bombings in Ankara that killed at least 97 people.
Defense Minister says German armed forces will act under new strategy from 2016, marking a formal end to its post-WWII pacifist policy
An Egyptian judicial source has denied reports that ousted President Mohamed Morsi had been referred to a military court
Six former leaders call for clemency on death sentence for drug smugglers
Blast smashed windows of several nearby buildings and at least six vehicles parked outside compound were badly damaged