2014-01~03
http://blogs.blouinnews.com/blouinbeatworld/2014/03/03/beijing-takes-predictable-course-following-kunming-attack/

Beijing takes predictable course following Kunming attack | BLOUIN BEAT: World
Chinese SWAT stand on duty at Beijing Railway Station on March 2, 2014 in Beijing, China. (Lintao Zhang/Getty Images)
Three more suspects were detained by authorities in China on Monday in connection to a deadly weekend knife attack in the southwestern Chinese city of Kunming that left 33 dead and over a hundred injured. According to a report from Xinhua, the suspects were part of an eight-member group with possible links to a banned separatist movement in Xinjiang. Officials are claiming to have recovered “East Turkestan” flags at the scene of the attack, in the first concrete bit of evidence linking Saturday’s assault to Uighur separatists in Xinjiang.
Saturday’s gruesome massacre is the second major attack on civilians in China in recent months. A suicide attack in Tiananmen Square in October was also attributed to the Uighur separatist East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) by Chinese officials. And the official response in the wake of the Kunming attack also mirrors that following Tiananmen, with even stricter-than-normal state control of media coverage along with almost-instant assignation of blame on Uighur separatists. Because of China’s tight grip over the flow of information, independent verification of the state’s account of these acts of violence is nearly impossible.
The conflation of the ethnic separatist movement with transnational Islamist militancy is a tactic long favored by Beijing, which successfully lobbied to have ETIM included on the United States and United Nations’ list of terrorist organizations after 9/11. The ethnic tensions now escalating in Xinjiang between the steadily growing Han Chinese population and the region’s Uighur Muslim inhabitants have their roots in long-standing economic and cultural issues brought on by the state’s rapid “Hanization” of the area. The strict limitations placed on Uighur religious and cultural expression and the perceived privileging of the Han population by authorities have helped to fuel separatist sentiment which has grown steadily more pronounced in the past two decades.
Beijing’s characterization of the ethnic separatist movement as a campaign of Islamist terror has only added fuel to the fire by necessitating heavy-handed crackdowns on the Uighur population — something which appears to breeding the exact problem Beijing claims to be fighting against. It has also escalated the regional conflict into a national issue, as the two major attacks outside of Xinjiang’s borders in recent months indicate. Chinese President Xi Jinping’s vow “to crack down on violent terrorist activities in all forms” does not, unsurprisingly, herald a new approach to the problem and, with Uighurs being rounded up by security forces even outside of Xinjiang, it is clear that this vicious cycle is only set to spiral further afield.