2014-01~03
http://jilard.com/search-continues-for-missing-malaysian-plane/287520/

Search Continues for Missing Malaysian Plane | Jilard Health Digest
Posted on 10. Mar, 2014 by Leasa Boisvert in Healthy Lifestyle
Despite an expansive search of the South China Sea, there is still no sign of the missing aircraft.
As investigators spend a third day searching for a missing Malaysian Airplane, there is still no sign of the aircraft. Questions abound as investigators try to determine what went wrong.
It had seemed like a routine flight on Saturday morning as a Malaysian airliner left Kuala Lumpur on its way to Beijing, China. Flight MH370 had 239 people on board but they never made it to their destination. About an hour or two after takeoff, the Boeing 777 disappeared from radar and searchers have yet to determine where it went.
Before the plane disappeared, there were no distress calls from the crew or signals from the plane that anything was amiss. Investigators have revealed that just before the plane disappeared it seemed to turn around, but there is no word on why.
Hours after the plane went missing, an oil slick was reported off the coast of Vietnam, and two pieces of debris were also spotted in the water. However, authorities have since determined that they had nothing to do with the missing airliner, raising even more questions about what happened to the plane. Although it seems strange that searchers are unable to find wreckage in the water, experts note that if the plane had broken up mid-air, the debris would be scattered over a wide area, making it harder to spot.
Failure to locate the plane is not for lack of effort. Nine different nations are involved in the search, including China which had 150 citizens on board the missing plane. A total of 40 ships and 34 aircraft are searching for the lost plane with more on standby. The U.S. even reportedly reviewed images from American spy satellites looking for signs of an explosion while the plane was in the air, but failed to locate any useful information.
Considering the mysterious circumstances of the Malaysian plane’s disappearance, a terrorist attack is one theory. Investigators had determined that two passengers had boarded the 777 with stolen passports from Italy and Austria. However, authorities claim this is a more common occurrence than you might think, and could be related to other illegal activities like drug smuggling, not necessarily terrorism. They are also looking into passengers who were booked on the flight but never got on board. Many thought the plane disappearance could be related to the Uighur separatist group who the Chinese believe were responsible for a deadly knife attack at a train station at the beginning of March. However, authorities are cautioning that it is too soon to speculate.
News of the airplane’s disappearance is especially shocking because the 777 is considered one of the most advanced aircraft in use today. The plane has triple redundancies on many systems and even sends signals home to alert of any major failures. Up until the plane disappeared, everything had looked normal to those on the ground.
Meanwhile, people around the world await word on the fate of the Malaysian aircraft, passengers and crew. While some still hold out hope that their families and friends will return to them, authorities are warning that people should prepare for the worst.
Tags: airline industry, boeing 777, flight mh370, malaysian airplane, missing plane, travel news