2014-01~03
http://www.worldbulletin.net/news/131725/thailand-urged-not-to-deport-uighurs-refugees-to-china

Thailand urged not to deport Uighur refugees to China | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
A leading rights group has called on the government of Thailand to ensure that 112 illegal migrants, believed to be ethnic Uighurs, arrested recently in the country's east, are not forcibly returned to China.
Thai authorities detained the group in Sa Kaew province near the Thai-Cambodia border and brought them to the central Immigration Detention Centre in Bangkok.
Chinese officials have reportedly confirmed that at least a quarter of the 112 are Uighurs, a Muslim and Turkic minority from Xinjiang in western China.
"Past cases have shown that Uighurs returned to China are always at risk of persecution," Brad Adams, Asia director of Human Rights Watch, said in a statement Saturday.
"Thailand needs to act quickly to ensure that these people are protected and not sent into harm’s way."
The group said that Uighurs forcibly returned to China usually face the threat of arrest and torture.
It said members of the group should be allowed unhindered access to officials from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the right to seek asylum and undergo refugee status determination.
The 112 people found in Sa Kaew is the second group found in Thailand this month suspected to be Uighurs.
On March 12, officials in the far south discovered 220 people in a jungle camp in Songkhla province, near the border with Malaysia.
The first group claimed to be Turks, and has asked to be repatriated to Turkey, but their country of origin is still being checked by Thai and international officials.
Representatives from the Turkish embassy in Bangkok have spoken to a representative of this group, members of which were fined for illegal entry into Thailand.
Human Rights Watch (HRW) said today that Thailand, as a signatory to the Convention against Torture, was obliged to ensure that no one in its custody is forcibly sent to a place where they would risk being subjected to persecution, torture, or other serious rights violations.
Southeast Asia is a common route for people fleeing persecution in countries such as North Korea and China, and there have been several instances of Uighurs being forcibly returned to China in recent years - in violation of international law.
In December 2009, Cambodia forcibly returned 20 Uighurs despite the local UNHCR office issuing "persons of concern" letters to them.
The rights group said subsequent media reports, which could not be verified, stated that some members of that group were tried and sentenced to death, while others were jailed.
Then in late 2012, Malaysia deported six Uighur men back to China, who were allegedly attempting to leave the country on false passports.
The six, who were also registered with the UNHCR, were transferred into the custody of Chinese authorities, who escorted them to China on a chartered flight.
HRW’s Adams said: "It’s really not that complicated: returning Uighurs to China exposes them to severe abuse. Thailand will be violating international law by sending any of these people back."
Security forces detonate roadside bomb in Muslim majority province where military has been clashing with ISIL-affiliated group
Two maintenance workers have been killed after a train in Singapore hit the workers
Suu Kyi to take one of four positions in new cabinet, with Minister of Foreign Affairs tipped to be the likely choice
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe
China arrests 10 Turks for helping Uighur Muslims to flee
US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

Gunman killed in attack on Mali hotel hosting EU mission

US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar

NASA astronaut to return to Earth after year in space
