2014-01~03
http://ajw.asahi.com/article/asia/china/AJ201403220037

Kobe University Chinese scholar goes missing in China - AJW by The Asahi Shimbun
A Chinese-born academic at Kobe University who has done prize-winning research on ethnic Uighurs in China seems to have vanished into thin air after returning to his homeland for a brief visit.
University officials are trying to contact 57-year-old Wang Ke, a professor of area cultural studies in the Faculty of Intercultural Studies.
Wang's specialty is modern Chinese philosophical history, but he is also known for his research on the Uighurs.
According to Kobe University officials, Wang departed for China on March 1, and planned to return to Japan on March 10.
However, on March 10, he phoned his family in Japan and told them his return would be delayed because he needed to look in on his mother in Xian who he said was not feeling well.
Family members have not heard from him since his phone call. They also checked on Wang's mother and found out that she was not ill. They subsequently conferred with Kobe University officials on March 19.
Wang had been scheduled to attend a symposium in Singapore on March 21. However, symposium sponsors said they were contacted by Wang, who told them he would not be able to attend.
Wang was born in Henan province, China. He completed the doctoral program at the University of Tokyo's Graduate School of Arts and Sciences in 1994. He has been a professor at Kobe University since 2001.
In 1996, his book about the Uighur independence movement during the 1930s and 40s was awarded the prestigious Suntory Prize for Social Sciences and Humanities.
It is not the first time a Japan-based researcher has not been heard from while visiting China.
In July 2013, China detained Zhu Jianrong, a professor of international relations and Chinese history at Toyo Gakuen University in Tokyo, while he was visiting China. Zhu was released in January and returned to Japan.
Ilham Tohti, a prominent Uighur economist calling for fair political treatment of the Turkic ethnic group in China, has been held in detention since January.
China expands embargo on North Korea vessels to 6 ports
SHENYANG, China--China has expanded its embargo on port visits by North Korean freighters in a unilateral sanction to punish Pyongyang for its recent nuclear and missile tests.
BEIJING--Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg held a rare meeting Saturday with China's propaganda chief, at a time when Chinese authorities are tightening control over their cyberspace.
Japan's ruling party urged Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government on Wednesday to consider seeking international arbitration over Beijing's drilling activities in the disputed East China Sea, mirroring similar action by the Philippines.
BEIJING--China's chief prosecutor said Sunday that battling "infiltration, subversion and sabotage by hostile forces" is a key priority this year, with terrorists, ethnic separatists and religious extremists all in his cross hairs.
China says little to cheer in improved ties with 'two-faced' Japan
BEIJING--China sees little reason for optimism that relations with Japan will improve, China's Foreign Minister said on Tuesday, accusing "two-faced" Tokyo of constantly seeking to make trouble.
Copyright The Asahi Shimbun Company. All rights reserved. No reproduction or republication without written permission.