2014-01~03
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/mar/05/china-knife-massacre-wage-jihad-abroad

China knife massacre culprits wanted to wage jihad abroad, official says | World news | The Guardian


Wednesday 5 March 2014 07.07 EST


Last modified on Monday 18 January 2016 05.48 EST


The group behind Saturday's gruesome knife attack at a Chinese train station turned to violence after failing to leave the country "to participate in jihad", a senior Communist party official was quoted as saying on Wednesday.
The attack, which left 33 people dead and 143 injured in the south-western city of Kunming, has sent shockwaves through the country; some official media outlets have called it "China's 9/11".
China's state newswire Xinhua has reported that there were eight attackers: two women and six men, all of them ethnic Uighur "separatists" from the distant north-western region of Xinjiang. Four were shot dead at the scene, and four have been detained.
"These eight people originally wanted to participate in jihad," said Qin Guangrong, the Communist party chief of Yunnan province, which includes Kunming. "After they were unable to leave from Yunnan, they turned around and went to other places."
The group then travelled to the southern province Guangdong, and after another failed border crossing, moved on to Honghe, a prefecture in Yunnan that borders Vietnam.
Qin's account may partially explain why the attack was carried out in Kunming, a peaceful, multiethnic city 1,500 miles from Xinjiang's regional capital Urumqi. His remarks were carried on a number of Chinese web portals on Wednesday, but have since been removed.
"Their plan was, if they were unable to escape, to wage jihad in Honghe and in Kunming's train station or bus station," he said. "A few people associated with these eight people are currently under surveillance."
State media has named one suspect in the attack – a man named Abdurehim Kurban – but the identities of his accomplices, and their motives, remain murky.
In a rare independently reported account of the incident, the popular Chinese magazine Caixin said that five of the suspects slashed pedestrians while the remaining three, apparently including a getaway driver, waited in a small van throughout the massacre. The post has been deleted.
The leader of a Swat team dispatched to stop the 12-minute killing spree has said that he shot five of the assailants in 15 seconds.
"When I arrived at the intersection of Yongping Road and Beijing Road by car, I saw some people using knives to slash passersby," he told the state broadcaster CCTV. "I fired my gun. At that time, I could see clearly that there were five attackers. They turned around and wanted to slash me."
He continued: "I fired my gun again and asked them to lay down their knives. But they didn't stop and ran at me. I shot them down."
On Tuesday, the prominent Uighur exile Rebiya Kadeer condemned the attack and urged Beijing to respond calmly.
"At this time of heightened tensions, it is important for China to deal with the incident rationally and not set about demonising the Uighur people as state enemies," Kadeer, the president of the World Uighur Congress, said in a statement.