2014-01~03
http://voiceofrussia.com/news/2014_03_03/China-the-cause-of-Xinjiang-separatism-is-rooted-overseas-expert-1531/

China: the cause of Xinjiang separatism is rooted overseas - expert - News - World - The Voice of Russia: News, Breaking news, Politics, Economics, Business, Russia, International current events, Expert opinion, podcasts, Video
The Chinese and the whole world have been shocked by the deadly knife massacre perpetrated in southern China. On Saturday night, a group of knife-wielding terrorists stabbed to death 29 people and wounded 130 others at a railway station in Kunming, the capital of the Yunnan province.
The UN Security Council has strongly condemned the Kunming attack and demanded that those responsible for it be punished in its first ever such statement on China.
The Beijing-based Global Times has called Saturday’s carnage a “Chinese 9/11”. Investigators working at the scene have found evidence suggesting that separatists from the Xinjiang-Uyghur might be involved.
At least ten assailants armed with long knives and axes and wearing black masks and identical clothes attacked people indiscriminately at the crowded station.
Police shot dead four of the attackers. One was captured alive. There were two women among the terrorists, both under 30.
Xinjiang separatism is a major headache for China and a threat to its security, said Yakov Berger, a research fellow at the Institute of the Far East of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
“Xinjiang separatism is rooted overseas. The past few years saw several major terrorist attacks, including in Xinjiang and other Uyghur-dominated areas. They all occurred against the background of complicated interethnic relationships that terrorists are quick to exploit. Kunming is the center of the Yunnan province, which is a home to many ethnic communities. The latter fact could have also mattered. Most terrorist acts are demonstrative and seeking to fuel ethnic tensions,” Berger said.
Some analysts believe that Kunming as the scene of attack could be a message to Beijing that Uyghur separatism has a ramified underground network covering the whole of China. Others, more cautious in their assessments, argue that the separatists probably just want everyone to think that they are everywhere.
“I agree that the separatists are willing to demonstrate their ability to operate both in Xinjiang and other regions of China. Yesterday’s carnage should be regarded as a kind of self-demonstration. Yet, I would not overestimate their potential. The Chinese leadership will not stand on ceremony with them after a sortie like that, but will retaliate with the harshest and most decisive measures, no matter what the so-called Western fighters for human rights in China say,” Mikhail Khodarenok, editor-in-chief of the Military-Industrial Messenger newspaper, told the Voice of Russia.
The Chinese leadership should not negotiate with the Xinjiang separatists, only the strict measures of the law must be applied, the Russian Institute for Strategic Studies expert Azhdar Kurtov said. Especially since they are heavily integrated in the "East Turkestan Islamic Movement" while the movement's leaders reside abroad. The expert does not rule out a possibility that some external forces are involved in the Kunming massacre.
"China has geopolitical rivals. They pose serious challenges to its internal stability, thus attempting to weaken their rival. That is why the Xinjiang separatists rely on the broad international terrorist network. It has its own overseas subsidiaries. Its leaders are very often found in developed Western countries, with Western media giving them a platform for their propaganda. In essence, it is the tacit support of separatism in China. This is the doings of the countries who fight terrorism in word, but not in deed."
Following the devastating terrorist attack on the Kunming station, Russian President Vladimir Putin has supported the people of China. In a telegram of condolence he gave words of sympathy and support to the families and friends of the victims and wished speedy recovery to the injured. The Russian leader called a terrorist attack a "heinous crime" and expressed his willingness to further cooperate with China in the fight against terrorism in every possible way.