2014-01~03
http://www.theage.com.au/world/china-charges-uighur-activist-with-separatism-20140226-hvdwi.html

China charges Uighur activist with separatism
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News, My Clippings, My Comments and user settings.
Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.

 Charged: Uighur scholar and activist Ilham Tohti has denied links to terrorist organisations. Photo: AP 

Beijing: Authorities in China’s restive far western region of Xinjiang have formally charged prominent Uighur rights advocate Ilham Tohti with separatism, in a case that has attracted widespread concern from foreign governments and human rights groups.
Mr Tohti’s lawyer, Li Fangping, said the charges were without basis and that the economics professor was being persecuted for championing the rights of Uighurs – a predominantly Muslim ethnic minority from Xinjiang.
Under Chinese law, Mr Tohti faces at least 10 years' jail, Mr Li said.

 Unrest: Uighurs in Xinjiang have clashed with majority Han Chinese and the authorities since 2009, when this protest took place. Photo: AFP

“He has been a very transparent person,” the lawyer said via telephone from Urumqi on Wednesday. “You can see from his past speeches and actions, there is nothing we believe constitutes a crime.”
Mr Tohti’s case has been remarked upon by Australia, the United States and the European Union amid an increasing pattern of Chinese government persecution of intellectuals, rights activists and bloggers in the past year.
The professor, seen in the West as a moderate and credible advocate for Uighur rights, was taken from his apartment in Beijing on January 15 and has been held incommunicado since.
His whereabouts were unknown until police confirmed in a written notice to his wife on Tuesday that he was being held in a detention centre in Urumqi, the regional capital of Xinjiang. As many as seven of Mr Tohti’s students and associates have also been detained, Mr Li said.
The charges come at a time of intensifying bloodshed and unrest in Xinjiang despite an elevated paramilitary presence in the region. More than 100 deaths resulting from violent clashes between Uighurs and police have been reported by state media in the past year.
Analysts outside China have long questioned the official narrative around violence in the region, which claims that much of it has been orchestrated by “hostile external forces”, including the obscure East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), who want to split resource-rich Xinjiang from the rest of China.
Mr Tohti has been among those to have played down the influence of the ETIM, highlighting inconsistencies in official accounts and insisting that most of the clashes stemmed from Uighur disenfranchisement over religious repression and uneven economic development.
In a statement issued last month on its microblog account, the Urumqi Bureau of State Security accused Mr Tohti of separatism and influencing others to incite “concocted, distorted and hyped up” acts of ethnic hatred, including through his Uighurbiz website.
“Ilham Tohti exploited his status as a teacher to recruit, entice and coerce people to form gangs, and to collude with ‘East Turkestan’ leaders in planning, organising and assigning people to go abroad to join in separatist activities,” the statement said.
Foretelling his own arrest, Mr Tohti made a statement in July last year declaring that he had “never associated with a terrorist organisation or a foreign-based group”.
“The only things I have ever wanted and requested are human rights, legal rights, autonomous regional rights and equality,” he said in the statement published after his detention in January. “Uighurs should be able to receive the same respect given to the Chinese and they should also have the ability to preserve their dignity.”
Nicholas Bequelin, a senior researcher at Human Rights Watch, said Mr Tohti was at “very high risk of torture and mistreatment”, with Chinese authorities keen to obtain an admission of guilt and Mr Tohti having gone on the record saying he would refuse to cooperate.
“Regardless of the interrogation strategy or the torture method, regardless of what body parts I am about to lose, know that I will never speak words that will work against the interest of Uighurs, nor will I ever betray the Uighurs,” Mr Tohti said in his July statement.



4 Mar


 Chinese police have captured the three remaining suspects of an eight-member, knife-wielding gang accused of killing 29 people at a Chinese railway station, the state-run news agency Xinhua reported Monday.



15 Feb


 Officers in far western China fatally shot eight people on Friday after what the state-run media called a terrorist attack.



2 Mar


 Beijing: Chinese authorities have condemned a mass stabbing that has left at least 29 dead at a crowded railway station as a premeditated terrorist attack orchestrated by separatists from the restive western region of Xinjiang.



3 Mar


 Witnesses to chilling violence at a Chinese train station placed under heavy security on Sunday recalled moments of fear and chaos after at least 29 people were killed in what authorities called a terrorist attack by Xinjiang militants.



2 Mar


 Victims described knife-wielding attackers dressed in black bursting into Kunming railway station late on Saturday and slashing indiscriminately.Beijing’s top security official was reported to be heading to the scene.The incident ‘‘was an organised, premeditated violent terrorist attack’’ carried out by ‘‘unidentified knife-wielding people’’, the official news agency Xinhua said, citing authorities.

 Compare variable rates as low as 3.99% p.a. now

 All Galaxy S7 plans from all major telcos available now

 Grab a bargain on one of the year's best phones