2014-01~03
http://www.news.com.au/world/dead-in-mosque-stampede-in-chinas-ningxia-region/story-fndir2ev-1226795724426?from=public_rss

14 dead in mosque stampede in China's Ningxia region

 BREAKING: Brussels has been rocked by multiple explosions at the airport and and a metro station. Live updates here.


 AN INDIAN actress hits out at those photoshopping faces onto porn films, saying those who are sharing it had not embarrassed her.


 EYEWITNESSES describe the horrific scenes that confronted them after ceilings collapsed, scattering people everywhere.


 FROM a swanky office in London, an embassy worker claimed to be from Google’s deletion team, manipulating thousands of women into sending nude photos.


 BRUSSELS has been rocked by multiple explosions at the airport and at least two metro stations. LIVE UPDATES HERE.


 TRYING to make your dreams come true? All you need is an internet connection and some really bad Photoshop skills.


 A SHOCKING new documentary reveals the reality of life in Saudi Arabia, and how disturbingly similar its punishments are to IS. Confronting content.


 IT MIGHT look and feel like paradise, but this island chain in the Indian Ocean holds an incredibly depressing world record.


Fourteen people are dead after a stampede in a mosque in China's Ningxia region.
Source: Supplied



 Fourteen people were killed and 10 injured in a stampede during a gathering at a mosque in northwest China's Ningxia region, state media has reported.
 

The stampede occurred around 1pm local time on Sunday while traditional food was being handed out to people attending an event to commemorate a late religious leader, Xinhua news agency said, citing the local government.
The injured were hospitalised, with four in critical condition, the brief report said.
An investigation was under way into the cause of the stampede at the mosque in Xiji town, some 320 kilometres (200 miles) northwest of Xian.
Ningxia region is home to the Chinese-speaking Hui minority, who are mostly Muslim but distinct from the Uighurs of Xinjiang.
Located on the upper reaches of the Yellow River, the semidesert region was the scene of a Muslim rebellion in the 19th century but has no recent history of ethnic tensions or other strife between the Hui and the Han majority.
In contrast, restive Xinjiang has seen several deadly clashes between Uighurs and security forces in recent months which the authorities in the remote northwest region have blamed on separatist "terrorists''.
Ningxia is seeking to develop its fledgling winemaking industry which has already attracted the likes of French luxury group LVMH, owner of Dom Perignon champagne among other brands.