2014-01~03
http://en.ria.ru/world/20140302/188020306/China-Blames-Uighur-Separatists-for-Deadly-Train-Station-Attack.html

China Blames Uighur Separatists for Deadly Train Station Attack
MOSCOW, February 2 (RIA Novosti) – Chinese authorities said Sunday that the East Turkestan Islamic Movement was behind a deadly attack on a train station in southwest Yunnan Province last night, local media reported.
At least 29 innocent people died, and more than 130 were injured in the attack on the Kunming Railway Station carried out by a group of more than 10 knife-wielding people, Xinhua news agency said.
Police reportedly killed five attackers and is searching for the rest of the group.
“Evidence at the crime scene showed that the Kunming Railway Station terrorist attack was orchestrated by Xinjiang separatist forces,” Xinhua cited local municipal officials.
Chinese President Xi Jinping has ordered law enforcement bodies to crack down on terrorist activities and severely punish the suspects in the attack.
The East Turkestan Islamic Movement, often blamed by the Chinese authorities for leading an insurgency in the northwestern Xinjiang Uyghur autonomous region, has not claimed responsibility for the attack. The movement is designated a terrorist group by the United Nations.
Xinjiang's eight million Uighurs have complained of political, cultural and religious persecution by Beijing and there have been repeated calls by Uighurs for independence.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.