2014-01~03
http://thehimalayantimes.com/rssReference.php?headline=Airport+security+lapse+not+ruled+out&NewsID=408228

The Himalayan Times
Two women wounded in Brussels Airport in Brussels, Belgium, after explosions were heard on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. A developing situation left at least one person and possibly more dead in explosions that ripped through the departure hall at Brussels airport Tuesday, police said. All flights were canceled, arriving planes were being diverted and Belgium’s terror alert level was raised to maximum, officials said. Photo: Ketevan Kardava/ Georgian Public Broadcaster via AP
A man is wounded in Brussels Airport in Brussels, Belgium, after explosions were heard on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: Ketevan Kardava/ Georgian Public Broadcaster via AP
BRUSSELS: Brussels Media: at least 13 people killed in explosions at airport and subway station.
Authorities tell everyone in Brussels to remain where they are after explosions at airport, subway station
The post Brussels Media: at least 13 people killed in explosions at airport and subway station appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
The United Launch Alliance Atlas V rocket and Orbital ATK Cygnus spacecraft stack sits on the launch pad at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Cape Canaveral, Florida, on Monday, March 21, 2016. Photo: Ben Smegelsky/NASA via AP
CAPE CANAVERAL: A space station supply ship is set to blast off Tuesday night with a commercial-quality 3-D printer for astronaut as well as public use — for a price — and the makings for a large-scale fire.
Don’t worry: The blaze is for scientific purposes only and won’t ignite until the unmanned craft is clear of the International Space Station at mission’s end. NASA project manager Gary Ruff said this blaze will be second in size only to the 1997 fire on the Russian Mir space station, which was caused by a defective oxygen-generating canister.
Orbital ATK’s capsule, named Cygnus after the swan constellation, holds nearly 8,000 pounds of station supplies for NASA. One-fourth of that is scientific research, including robotic grippers inspired by the tiny, sticky hair on geckos’ feet.
An Atlas rocket provided by United Launch Alliance will provide the ride from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. Excellent weather is forecast for the 11:05 p.m. launch.
A look at some of the experiments bound for the space station and its six-man crew:
NASA will deliberately set a fire inside the trash-packed Cygnus cargo ship, once it leaves the space station in May and is a safe distance away. Researchers want to understand how a fire spreads in weightlessness — how fast and how big does it get? The goal is to improve fire safety on future spacecraft. An electrical igniter will be used to light a yard-long cotton-fiberglass sheet inside a box. The burn should last 15 to 20 minutes, with a pair of cameras recording the flames and sensors making measurements. A week or so later, the capsule will burn up as planned over the Pacific. The test is called Saffire, short for Spacecraft Fire Experiment.
This new 3-D printer is an update to one launched to the space station in 2014. Northern California-based company Made In Space says the new printer is bigger and better. The first printer created items no bigger than an iPhone, this new printer will churn out items as big as an iPad mini. It will be controlled from the ground, with minimal input from the astronauts. The intention is to make 3-D items as needed for real-time use. But the company also is leasing the printer for groups interested in creating customized 3-D items in space. Some of the items will be returned to Earth aboard SpaceX Dragon capsules, according to the company.
A new camera will provide high-definition video of meteors entering Earth’s atmosphere. It should be ready to go well before the Perseids meteor shower in August. Southwest Research Institute’s Michael Fortenberry and his team want to analyze the chemical composition of incoming meteors. This is the third attempt to get the experiment to the space station; the first was destroyed in an Orbital launch explosion in 2014, the second in a SpaceX launch accident last June.
A spacecraft landing on an asteroid will need to anchor itself to avoid floating away, given the exceedingly low gravity. The question is: Will the anchor stay put or yank free? Researchers hope to better understand the loose, gravelly asteroid surface with a NASA experiment known as Strata. They’ve pulverized a hunk of meteorite discovered in Africa to simulate the surface material found on airless asteroids; 400 grams are on board. Silica glass shards also are making the trip, along with other materials stored in tubes, so researchers can see how they move around in weightlessness.
Some of nature’s best grippers can be found on the feet of geckos. Researchers at Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, have based their new mechanical spring-loaded grippers on the thousands of tiny sticky hairs found on geckos’ feet. Five handheld grippers will be tested on the space station; one will remain on board an entire year. Researchers envision using these so-called Gecko Grippers for robots’ hands and feet, allowing them to crawl around the outside of a spacecraft to perform inspections or repairs. The reusable grippers can be turned on and off, and adhere to multiple surfaces, making them ideal for future space station use, according to NASA scientist Pete Hasbrook.
The post Space station delivery rich in science and technology appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
FILE – An Indian women stands in front of an air cooler to cool herself on a hot summer day in Hyderabad, in the southern Indian state of Telangana, on May 31, 2015. Photo: AP
GENEVA: Hotter weather appears to be here to stay, El Nino or not, the UN weather agency said Monday, warning that the Paris climate accord last year shouldn’t give way to complacency about global warming.
The World Meteorological Organisation issued its annual climate report following a record-hot 2015, highlighting records already announced by different countries’ weather agencies. The agency pointed out that not only was 2015 breaking records on the surface but also hundreds of meters deep in the ocean.
And the first two months of 2016 were even hotter, so startling that they “have sent shockwaves around the climate sciencecommunity,” David Carlson of the World Climate Research Programme said in a statement.
Climate scientists blame record high temperatures last year and this year so far on a combination of a super-sized El Nino, which is a natural warming of parts of the Pacific that changes weather worldwide, on top of a long-term global warming trend from the burning of fossil fuels.
NASA said last month was 1.35 degrees Celsius (2.43 degrees Fahrenheit) warmer than average. Of that, 0.8 degrees (1.44 degrees Fahrenheit) comes from the long-term warming and 0.25 degrees (0.45 degrees Fahrenheit) from El Nino, with the rest unexplained residual, calculated climate scientist Stefan Rahmstorf of the Potsdam Institute in Germany and the University of New South Wales.
Even after the El Nino phenomenon abates in coming months, way above normal temperatures won’t exactly go away, Carlson and others said.
“We’re on a slope; sometimes the slope goes very steep, sometimes it’s a little bit more shallow, but we’re going upward,” Carlson said in a news conference. “So the normal is going to be increases: It’s going to be increased temperature, increased ocean heat content, loss of ice, we know all of these things.”
Katharine Hayhoe, a Texas Tech climate scientist who wasn’t part of the WMO team, agreed: “These records vividly illustrate the destructive power of an El Nino on climate change steroids.”
The WMO predicts warmer weather accompanied by pockets of both drier and wetter conditions, depending on the region, around the world.
WMO Secretary-General Petteri Taalas told reporters in Geneva that many people believe the climate issue is “solved … since we reached a nice agreement in Paris.” But, he said, “we haven’t changed our behavior yet.”
The post UN: After hot 2015, new normal is hotter world temperatures appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
The deceased has been identified as 27-year-old Shanta Lal Moktan of Korak VDC-7, informed Inspector Satya Narayan Thapa of the Ward Police Office, Narayangadh.
Police said Thapa went missing after a boat ferrying four turned turtle in the River. Apart from Thapa, one was rescued immediately while two others swam outside the River to save themselves.
Thapa was found at 6:30 am on Tuesday near the shore of Narayani River.
The post Youth found dead in Narayani appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
US soccer team forward Clint Dempsey speaks to the press before the start of practice at Barry University in Miami Shores, Florida, on Monday March 21, 2016. Photo: AP
MIAMI: Clint Dempsey is expected to play his first game with the US since October when the national team plays a World Cup qualifying match Friday in Guatemala.
The 33-year-old Dempsey was left off the USA roster for two qualifying matches in November. Coach Jurgen Klinsmann cited the need to look at younger players.
“It’s not really up to me,” said Dempsey, in reference to not playing last fall. “It is and it isn’t. It is in that you have to keep working hard and playing. But it’s up to the coaching staff to make the decisions, and I’m happy to be a part of these important games.”
The Americans could use his scoring touch. Dempsey has 48 goals while playing for the US, second in history behind the 57 scored by Landon Donovan. He’s also the all-time leading scorer against Guatemala with five goals.
Dempsey last played for the national team on Oct. 10 in the Confederations Cup loss to Mexico.
Jozy Altidore has been slowed by an injury, so Klinsmann could pair Dempsey with forward Bobby Wood, a 23-year-old Hawaiian and prolific scorer on his German team FC Union Berlin.
Dempsey also might be used in the midfield. Either way, Dempsey will add a dangerous dynamic to the offense. He’s added 13 goals in World Cup qualifiers — tied with Donovan for the most in team history — and Altidore has 12.
“He’s got experience,” Wood said of Dempsey. “He’s been around for a while. It adds another leader to the team, and I think everyone is excited about that.”
The US is 13-0-1 against Guatemala in qualifying matches on its home soil. However, the match at Guatemala shapes up differently. USA has just one win and five ties in its past six matches there. The lone win in that span was a 1-0 victory in 2008.
The match Friday is the first of home-and-home qualifiers. Guatemala will play the Americans on March 29 in Columbus, Ohio.
With two victories over Guatemala, the Americans would clinch advancing to the final round of qualifying for the 2018 World Cup. That final six-team round kicks off in 2017.
Dempsey said playing any road game while attempting to qualify for the World Cup is difficult because of the nationalistic fervor among the fans.
“You can really feel that home-field advantage,” Dempsey said of the atmosphere in Guatemala. “It’s always a hostile crowd. They support their team very passionately. The trick is to try to get as many points as you can from away games.”
“You want to manage it in the right way, and that’s being careful with cards and making sure you take the energy from the fans and use it to your benefit,” he said. “You have to try and impose your game on the other team.”
The post Dempsey to play for US at World Cup qualifying in Guatemala appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Arsenal goalkeeper Petr Cech (right) shakes hands with Barcelona’s Ivan Rakitic after the end of the Champions League round of 16 first leg soccer match between Arsenal and Barcelona at the Emirates stadium London, on Tuesday, February 23, 2016. Photo: AP
PRAGUE: Arsenal goalkeeper Petr Cech has been voted the Czech Republic’s player of the year for 2015.
The 33-year-old Czech international won Monday’s poll of players, coaches, football federation officials and journalists for a record eighth time overall.
Cech left Chelsea in 2015 — following 11 successful years — and moved to English Premier League rival Arsenal. He also helped the Czech national team qualify for the 2016 European Championship in France.
He sustained a calf muscle injury earlier in March and won’t play in the forthcoming international matches against Scotland and Sweden.
Last year’s poll winner, Sparta Prague striker David Lafata, finished second while Hertha Berlin midfielder Vladimir Darida came third.
National team coach Pavel Vrba was voted best coach for the sixth straight year.
The post Petr Cech voted player of the year in Czech Republic appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
A general view of the Zaventem’s international airport near Brussels on February 20, 2013. Photo: Reuters/ File
BRUSSELS: Explosions tore through the departure hall of Brussels airport on Tuesday morning killing one person and injuring several others, the Belgian news agency Belga said.
The agency said shots were fired and there were shouts in Arabic shortly before the explosions.
The blasts occurred four days after the arrest in Brussels of a suspected participant in November militant attacks in Paris that killed 130 people. Belgian police had been on alert for any reprisal action.
Social media showed pictures of smoke rising from the departure hall where windows had been shattered by the blasts. Passengers were seen running away down a slipway.
Sky News television’s Alex Rossi, at the scene, said he heard two “very, very loud explosions”.
“I could feel the building move. There was also dust and smoke as well…I went towards where the explosion came from and there were people coming out looking very dazed and shocked.”
“The thinking here is that it is some kind of terrorist attack – that hasn’t been verified by any of the authorities here at the airport.”
Video showed devastation inside the departure hall with items scattered across the floor.
Belgian media said rail traffic to the airport was suspended.
Brussels airport said it had cancelled all flights and the complex had been evacuated.
Salah Abdeslam, the prime surviving suspect for November’s Paris attacks on a stadium, cafes and a concert hall, was captured by Belgian police after a shootout on Friday.
Belgium’s Interior Minister, Jan Jambon, said on Monday the country was on high alert for a possible revenge attack following the capture of 26-year-old Abdeslam.
“We know that stopping one cell can … push others into action. We are aware of it in this case,” he told public radio.
French investigator Francois Molins told a news conference in Paris on Saturday that Abdeslam, a French citizen born and raised in Brussels, admitted to investigators he had wanted to blow himself up along with others at the Stade de France on the night of the attack claimed by Islamic State; but he later backed out.
The post Explosions hit Brussels airport, one killed: Belgian media appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli with Chinese Premier Li Keqiang at the Great Hall of the People Monday, March 21, 2016 in Beijing, China. (Lintao Zhang/Pool Photo via AP)
KATHMANDU: Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, who is on a seven-day visit to China, on Tuesday, claimed that Nepal would not allow its land to be used under any pretext against the northern neighbour.
According to a press statement issued by Oli’s press advisor Pramod Dahal today, PM Oli said that he was very thankful to the government of China for the respect shown towards the sovereignty of Nepal and also for the support it extended to Nepal.
While addressing a programme organised by Renmin University on the theme of ” Nepal-China Relations in the context of One Belt-One Road Initiative”, PM Oli said that Nepal was always in favour of One China policy.
The deep relation between two countries on the basis of Panchasheel principles would be stronger after the initiatives of ‘One Belt One Road’ programme, stated PM KP Sharma Oli.
Meanwhile, PM Oli would interact with entrepreneurs and also address a press conference with Chinese media organised at Embassy of Nepal in Beijing.
Meanwhile, an agreement about Nepal’s membership as a Dialogue Partner of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) was signed today in the presence of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli.
The SCO is a Eurasian political, economic and military organisation founded in 2001 in Shanghai by the leaders of China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.
At present, four countries – Afghanistan, Belarus, Iran and Mongolia – have been granted observer status while Ufa Summit has decided to admit India and Pakistan as full members. Armenia, Azerbaijan, Cambodia, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Turkey are Dialogue Partners of the SCO.
Foreign Secretary Shankar Das Bairagi from Nepal and the SCO General Secretary Rashid K. Alimov had signed the agreement.
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs Kamal Thapa, Ministers for Commerce and Education Deepak Bohara and Giriraj Mani Pokharel respectively, Secretaries and other members of the delegation witnessed the signing ceremony.
The post Won’t allow Nepal land to use against China, says PM Oli appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Britain’s Prince Harry accepts flowers and blessings from locals and school children in Gainda VDC of Lamjung, on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: RSS
POKHARA: British Prince Harry was accorded a warm welcome when he landed at the Pokhara Airport on Tuesday.
High government officials including the Chief District Officer of Kaski district, Hari Prasad Mainali, received Harry when he arrived at the airport from a Nepali Army helicopter.
From the airport, Prince Harry proceeded towards the British Camp at Lamachaur by car amidst tight security.
British Prince Harry arrives at the Pokhara Airport in Pokhara, on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: RSS
Prince Harry is scheduled to return to Kathmandu today after participating in different programmes in Pokhara. The Prince arrived at Pokhara for sightseeing, according to the British Embassy, Kathmandu.
British Prince Harry receives the warm welcome from the locals of Gainda VDC in Lamjung, on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: RSS
The locals have taken the British prince’s visit to Pokhara as an important occasion.
Early this morning, British Prince also observed the sunrise and eye-catching beauty of the Himalayas from Gaunda in the eastern part of Lamjung district.  Along with that he also enjoyed scenic beauty of Mt Annapurna-II, Mt Machhapuchchhre, Mt Lamjung, Mt Manaslu, Mt Himchuli and Mt LH Lho besides sightseeing.
British Prince Harry embarks on a half-an-hour journey to Okhare by foot from Deurali of Lamjung, in Gainda VDC of Lamjung, on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: RSS
After that he arrived at Lamjung, where he was received by the local residents of Gurung and Tamang communities as per their tradition and culture.
Locals help British Prince Harry to try on Bhangra, a traditional costume of Gurung community, in Gainda VDC of Lamjung, on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: RSS
He there inspected the situation of the quake hit people and also played volleyball with the students of Gaunda Secondary School, one of the quake-ravaged academic institutions in Lamjung.
British Prince Harry playing volleyball with the local students of Gainda Secondary School in Okhare of Lamjung, on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: RSS
He is on a visit to Nepal as the representative of the British Queen Elizabeth II on the occasion of the bicentenary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Nepal and Britain.
The post Prince Harry welcomed in Pokhara appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
The new occupants working the land, many of who had few farming skills when they were resettled, say they can barely make ends meet, let alone pay an extra levy.
Their agricultural output is a fraction of the level seen before 2000, when President Robert Mugabe – saying he sought to correct colonial injustices – introduced land reforms which led to thousands of experienced white farmers being evicted.
They are also being hammered by Zimbabwe’s worst drought in a quarter of a century and toiling under a stagnating economy that has seen banks reluctant to lend and cheaper food imports from the likes of South Africa undermining their businesses.
“Are farmers able to pay? I will say no. Is the land being productive? I will say no again,” said Victor Matemadanda, secretary general of a group representing war veterans who led the land seizure drive in 2000 and are now farmers.
He told Reuters that many farmers could not even meet water and electricity bills and that it was the government’s obligation – not theirs – to pay the compensation.
Zimbabwe Commercial Farmers Union President Abdul Nyathi also said his members would not be able to pay compensation. “Most of the farmers face viability issues, the government will have to look at other ways of raising money,” he added.
Mugabe’s land reforms have led to about 5,000 white farmers being evicted from their land by his supporters and war veterans over the past 16 years, often violently. More than a dozen farmers have been killed.
The land seizures, along with allegations of vote-rigging and rights abuses – all denied by Mugabe – led to Zimbabwe being targeted by sanctions from Western donors. This compounded the economic plight of the country, which saw financing from the International Monetary Fund, World Bank and African Development Bank frozen in 1999 after it defaulted on debts.
The IMF’s head of mission to Zimbabwe, Domenico Fanizza, said this month that improving fiscal discipline and re-engaging the international community should be priorities for Harare. He said this would “reduce the perceived country risk premium and unlock affordable financing for the government and private sector”.
The post Zimbabwe farmers resist compensating evicted white landowners appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Radovan Karadzic appears in court at the International Criminal Tribunal for Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) in The Hague, Netherlands on July 11, 2013. Photo: Reuters/ File
SARAJEVO: Radovan Karadzic saw himself as locked in a David and Goliath struggle to save the Serbs even as their forces were reducing the besieged city of Sarajevo to rubble.
On Thursday, 21 years after he was first indicted, the United Nations war crimes tribunal delivers its verdict on the man many Bosnians feared as the “master of life and death” during the war of 1992-95.
The former Bosnian Serb leader has been on trial in The Hague since 2009, charged with war crimes and genocide against Bosnian Muslims and Croats. He could be jailed for life.
A man who liked to recite his own poetry and hold court in a ski resort near Sarajevo, Karadzic was president of the self- styled Bosnian Serb Republic and supreme commander of its armed forces until he lost power in 1996.
The next year he went into hiding, disappearing until his arrest 11 years later in Belgrade, where he lived disguised as a New Age healer.
He became one of the world’s most wanted men, swapping his trademark bouffant hairstyle for a long white beard and adopting a false name. The US government offered a $5 million reward for information.
The International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia charged him with 11 counts of genocide and crimes against humanity and violations of the customs of war, including the Sarajevo siege and the Srebrenica massacre, Europe’s worst atrocity since World War Two.
After shaving off the beard and putting on a suit, Karadzic regained the look of a persuasive demagogue, denying any wrongdoing and saying he should be praised for promoting peace, not accused of murdering thousands.
“I have a clear conscience but a heavy heart because the war was not according to my taste,” he said during his trial.
Just as he manipulated Western envoys who visited him in Pale, his wartime stronghold in mountains near Sarajevo, Karadzic, a trained psychiatrist, tried to drag out his trial, refusing to attend sessions and asking to defend himself.
For 497 days in court, he became a familiar sight with his silver mane, peering through steel-rimmed spectacles at some of the three million pages of evidence that prosecutors entered in the mammoth case.
His aim was to pin blame on his wartime ally, Bosnian Serb general Ratko Mladic, who is also in trial for genocide, and to try to prove that some atrocities blamed on Serb forces were carried out by Bosnian Muslims against their own people.
He sought to portray himself as a Serb champion. “The entire Serb people stands accused,” he said in October 2014 in his closing statement at the trial.
During the war, he predicted the West would tear itself apart over the Serbs. It would be like the biblical fight between David and Goliath, he told Reuters: “You will know that David survived.”
His trial included testimony from 586 witnesses and the UN tribunal’s chief prosecutor, Serge Brammertz, complimented him on how he conducted his defence: “There are professional lawyers who have done a less good job than he did.”
At 70, Karadzic remains in robust health, reading widely, writing and playing football.
Born in Montenegro in 1945 into a family of Serb nationalists, Karadzic studied psychiatry and medicine at the University of Sarajevo in the 1960s and took courses in psychiatry and poetry at Columbia University in the United States from 1974 to 1975.
He worked as a psychiatrist in Sarajevo, where he had two children with his wife, a physician. He specialised in neuroses and depression and wrote poetry but was never fully accepted by the city’s intellectual elite.
He had a second job in the 1970s as a psychologist motivating the Sarajevo soccer team.
“He turned out the lights and played Mozart and Beethoven. We found it all very funny,” former Sarajevo soccer star Predrag Pasic told Reuters in 2008. “He would play ‘Flight of the Bumblebee’ and had us imagine the bee flying in the dark.”
Those who knew him say he liked to gamble. Karadzic spent 11 months in prison in Sarajevo from 1984-85 on embezzlement charges in relation to a loan he obtained.
He surprised many when he emerged as the leader of the nationalist Serb Democratic Party, which helped arm Bosnian Serbs and set up autonomous regions with help from the Yugoslav army and police.
As multi-ethnic Yugoslavia began to crack in the late 1980s after Tito’s death, Slobodan Milosevic was whipping up nationalist fervour among Serbs and his proteges among the academics and writers who spoke of creating a Greater Serbia chose Karadzic as their man in Bosnia.
On the eve of war in 1992, Karadzic warned against plans to declare Bosnia a sovereign state. It would lead the country into hell and perhaps “make the Muslim people disappear, because the Muslims cannot defend themselves if there is war”, he said.
War came and Bosnian Serb forces backed by Yugoslavia seized two-thirds of Bosnia, which paid for independence with 100,000 lives.
The Hague tribunal first indicted Karadzic in July 1995 for the shooting of unarmed civilians in Sarajevo and taking UN peacekeepers hostage.
He was indicted again four months later for orchestrating the slaughter of 8,000 Muslim men and boys after Serb forces seized the UN’s Srebrenica “safe area” in eastern Bosnia.
Karadzic dismissed the tribunal as a “political court” but went underground in 1997, seen by loyalists as a hero hounded by foreign powers.
The post From poetry-lover to genocide suspect, Karadzic faces verdict appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Tournament director Raymond Moore gestures while speaking at the BNP Paribas Open tennis tournament in Indian Wells, California on March 20, 2016. Photo: AP
LOS ANGELES: The tournament director of the BNP Paribas Open who said women’s pro tennis players “ride on the coattails of the men” resigned Monday night.
Tournament owner Larry Ellison said in a statement that Raymond Moore was quitting as chief executive officer and tournament director of the $7 million event featuring men’s and women’s players in the California desert. Moore informed Ellison of his decision when they spoke earlier in the day.
“Ray let me know that he has decided to step down from his roles as CEO and tournament director effective immediately,” Ellison said. “I fully understand his decision.”
A tournament spokesman could offer no further details on Moore’s resignation, citing only Ellison’s statement.
Moore apologised after he was roundly criticised by executives from the women’s and men’s pro tours, players Serena Williams and Victoria Azarenka and on social media for his comments Sunday.
The 69-year-old former touring pro from South Africa has been CEO of the tournament since 2012. In the event’s early years, Moore and fellow ex-player Charlie Pasarell started PM Sports Management, which oversaw the tournament as it expanded.
“In my next life when I come back I want to be someone in the WTA because they ride on the coattails of the men. They don’t make any decisions and they are lucky. They are very, very lucky,” Moore said. “If I was a lady player, I’d go down every night on my knees and thank God that Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal were born, because they have carried this sport.”
He also referred to women’s players as “physically attractive and competitively attractive.” Moore later apologised, calling his comments “in extremely poor taste and erroneous.”
“I am truly sorry for those remarks, and apologise to all the players and WTA as a whole,” the statement said. “We had a women’s final today that reflects the strength of the players, especially Serena and Victoria, and the entire WTA. Again, I am truly sorry for my remarks.”
Raymond Moore clearly had no intention to leave his post based on comments he made to reporters Sunday on the last day of the two-week tournament. Before the backlash over his controversial comments began, he was asked how long he planned to remain in charge.
“Firstly, I love what I’m doing. I’m passionate about it. I enjoy it,” Moore said. “Who knows who the face of the tournament will be down the road. But I don’t think that, oh, I’m going to stop next year or three years.”
Ellison, a billionaire and executive of Oracle Corp., credited Billie Jean King, Martina Navratilova and Serena and Venus Williams, as well as other female athletes, for their leadership in treating women and men equally in sports.
“I’m proud to say that it is now a decade-long tradition at our tournament at Indian Wells, and all the major tennis tournaments, to pay equal prize money to both the women and the men,” Ellison said in his statement.
Ellison thanked the “great women athletes” who fought so hard in pursuit of equal prize money in pro tennis.
“All of us here at the BNP Paribas Open promise to continue working with everyone to make tennis a better sport for everybody,” he said.
The post Tennis tourney director quits after criticising women pros appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Any significant disruptions could play into the hands of Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull as he heads into an early election announced yesterday that will be fought largely on industrial relations and reigning in powerful unions.
Their workers will strike for several hours at five regional airports on Tuesday, a spokesman for the Community and Public Sector Union (CPSU) said, before expanding to state capitals such as Sydney and Melbourne on Thursday.
The strike could severely inconvenience international and domestic travellers as the nation heads into a four-day weekend for the Easter holiday, one of the busiest times of year for air travel.
“Our goal is to put pressure on the agency and on the government to actually talk with us. That’s entirely the reason why this is being held, and the timing is because that’s the timing that will apply the most pressure,” a CPSU spokesman told Reuters.
Strikes at major airports, which are aimed at ending a two-year contract dispute between public sector workers and the federal government, will continue after the holiday weekend.
“There’s rolling strikes planned from Tuesday next week for several weeks so it’s not just about a one week thing in the lead-up to the long weekend, it’s actually a longer term strategy,” the spokesman added.
On Monday staff at a wide range of government offices including welfare agency Centrelink, the Tax Office, Bureau of Meteorology, the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Australian Bureau of Statistics, walked off the job.
Government employees represented by the CPSU say that the government has refused to negotiate with them in good faith.
A spokeswoman for Employment Minister Senator Michaela Cash called the union’s actions “disappointing” and said that they were placing the needs of their workers over those of disadvantaged citizens who rely on government services.
“It is disappointing that the CPSU has resorted to industrial action, particularly in circumstances where regional DHS offices are most impacted,” she said, referring to the Department of Human Services.
“It is also greatly concerning that the CPSU’s conduct will mean that some of the most vulnerable in society may (have) their services impacted over Easter.”
The post Australia strikes threatening to choke Easter weekend air travel appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
New Zealand cricketers play match with local children during a practice session in Mohali on Monday.
A resurgent New Zealand will be eyeing a semi-final berth when they take on a deflated Pakistan in a World Twenty20 group match in Mohali on Tuesday.
Smarting under a six-wicket defeat to arch rivals India, Shahid Afridi’s men need a victory against the table-topping Kiwis to keep their hopes alive of winning the trophy for a second time. Pakistan won their opener against Bangladesh comfortably but things have since gone downhill as they unravelled against the Indians on Saturday, sparking an angry backlash from fans back home. The Black Caps in contrast have been riding high with their horses for courses policy paying rich dividends against India and Australia.
New Zealand are perched on top of Group 2 with four points followed by India and Pakistan on two each from as many games. Skipper Kane Williamson has won plaudits after he packed his side with unheralded spinners and leaving out tested fast bowlers Trent Boult and Tim Southee in the key opening game against favourites India. Their strategy worked well against Australia too with rookie spinners
Mitchell Santner and Ish Sodhi combining with recalled paceman Mitchell McClenaghan to wreak havoc in the opposition ranks.
McClenaghan was a surprise replacement for Nathan McCullum, one of the heroes of New Zealand’s dramatic victory over India. “I think we were fortunate to play on two wickets which were very similar.”
We adopted similar tactics,” Williamson said after the win over his trans-Tasman rivals. “You have to try and read the conditions and select accordingly.” Another win will see New Zealand cruise through to the knockout stage of the tournament which would be a commendable feat for a young side.
Afridi, 36, will be under pressure to deliver after taking flak for his tactics against India. Former Pakistani spin great Saqlain Mushtaq was surprised at the team selection by Afridi, who is tipped to retire at the end of the World T20.
“They couldn’t read the pitch. For such a high profile match they should have played a proper spinner,” Mushtaq was quoted as saying by the Press Trust of India news agency on Sunday. “It was not a pitch to field four fast bowlers,” he said.
The post Deflated Pak face resurgent Black Caps appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Spinner Moeen Ali admitted England’s bowlers are hoping for some respite Monday as they lick their wounds after being pummelled by South Africa and a rampant Chris Gayle in cricket’s World Twenty20.
Although England are on a high after their record-breaking win over South Africa on Friday, their bowlers were once again clattered to all corners at Mumbai’s Wankhede Stadium as the Proteas raced to a huge total of 229. Reece Topley went for 33 in just two overs while Chris Jordan conceded 49 in a three-over stint against the South Africans whose own star bowler, Dale Steyn, was subsequently carted around the ground.
Ali was the most economic bowler against South Africa but still went for nearly nine an over and was one of those on the receiving end last Wednesday when Chris Gayle smashed 11 sixes in a brutal century. “I have not enjoyed bowling in Mumbai so far,” said Ali after England arrived in New Delhi where they will play their next two group matches against Afghanistan on Wednesday and the holders Sri Lanka on Saturday. “I think the (Delhi) wicket is going to be a little bit slower, though I haven’t seen it so I don’t expect the runs to be coming as quick as Mumbai.”
Ali said he and his fellow spinner Adil Rashid had felt they “would love to be bowling” on other pitches which have turned sharply in the tournament, such as Nagpur where India lost to New Zealand. But he conceded it has been tough for England’s quicker bowlers as well. “I don’t think it has been very easy for the seamers. The grounds have been a little bit smaller and the pitches have been beautiful to bat on,” he said. “Hopefully the bowlers are going to win us a game in the future.”
Despite their victory over South Africa, England not only need to win their last two matches but must up their run-rate after losing to the West Indies. England’s batsmen were generally in awesome form against South Africa but Ali, who has opened for the team but now bats at seven, has missed out in both matches and warned against complacency towards Afghanistan.
“They are a very good side. We saw yesterday they competed very well,” he added in reference to Afghanistan’s match against South Africa on Sunday when the minnows at one stage threatend an upset by reaching 105 for two while chasing 210. “We are not going to take them lightly… It’s a tough game but hopefully we can win in the game.”
The post Battered bowlers hoping for respite, says Ali appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
An Apple iPhone is pictured next to the logo of Apple in Bordeaux, southwestern France, on February 26, 2016. Photo: Reuters
US prosecutors said Monday that a “third party” had presented a possible method for opening an encrypted iPhone used by one of the San Bernardino shooters, a development that could bring an abrupt end to the high-stakes legal showdown between the government and Apple Inc.
A federal judge in Riverside, California, late Monday agreed to the government’s request to postpone a hearing scheduled for Tuesday so that the FBI could try the newly discovered technique. The Justice Department said it would update the court on April 5.
The government had insisted until Monday that it had no way to access the phone used by Rizwan Farook, one of the two killers in the December massacre in San Bernardino, California, except to force Apple to write new software that would disable the password protection.
The Justice Department last month obtained a court order directing Apple to create that software, but Apple has fought back, arguing that the order is an overreach by the government and would undermine computer security for everyone.
The announcement on Monday that an unnamed third party had presented a way of breaking into the phone on Sunday – just two days before the hearing and after weeks of heated back-and-forth in court filings – drew skepticism from many in the tech community who have insisted that there were other ways to get into the phone.
“From a purely technical perspective, one of the most fragile parts of the government’s case is the claim that Apple’s help is required to unlock the phone,” said Matt Blaze, a professor and computer security expert at the University of Pennsylvania. “Many in the technical community have been skeptical that this is true, especially given the government’s considerable resources.”
Former prosecutors and lawyers supporting Apple said the move suggested that the Justice Department feared it would lose the legal battle, or at minimum would be forced to admit that it had not tried every other way to get into the phone.
In a statement, the Justice Department said its only interest has always been gaining access to the information on the phone and that it had continued to explore alternatives even as litigation began. It offered no details on the new technique except that it came from a non-governmental third party, but said it was “cautiously optimistic” it would work.
“That is why we asked the court to give us some time to explore this option,” a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, Melanie R. Newman, said. “If this solution works, it will allow us to search the phone and continue our investigation into the terrorist attack that killed 14 people and wounded 22 people.”
It would also likely end the case without a legal showdown that many had expected to reach the US Supreme Court.
An Apple executive told reporters on a press call that the company knew nothing about the Justice Department’s possible method for getting into the phone, and that the government never gave any indication that it was continuing to search for such solutions.
The executive characterised the Justice Department’s admission Monday that it never stopped pursuing ways to open the phone as a sharp contrast with its insistence in court filings that only Apple possessed the means to do so.
Nate Cardozo, staff attorney at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a civil liberties group backing Apple, said the San Bernardino case was the “hand-chosen test case” for the government to establish its authority to access electronic information by whatever means necessary.
In that context, he said, the last-minute discovery of a possible solution and the cancellation of the hearing is “suspicious,” and suggests the government might be worried about losing and setting a bad precedent.
But George Washington University law professor Orin Kerr, a former Justice Department computer crime prosecutor, said the government was likely only postponing the fight.
“The problem is not going away, it’s just been delayed for a year or two,” he said.
Apple said that if the government was successful in getting into the phone, which might involve taking advantage of previously undiscovered vulnerabilities, it hoped officials would share information on how they did so. But if the government drops the case it would be under no obligation to provide information to Apple.
In opposing the court order, Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, and his allies have argued that it would be unprecedented to force a company to develop a new product to assist a government investigation, and that other law enforcement agencies around the world would rapidly demand similar services.
Law enforcement officials, led by Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey, have countered that access to phones and other devices is crucial for intelligence work and criminal investigations.
The government and the tech industry have clashed for years over similar issues, and Congress has been unable to pass legislation to address the impasse.
The post US says it may not need Apple to open San Bernardino iPhone appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Officials called for a truck to be parked alongside the pitch after the lights went out at the Engenheiro Araripe stadium, allowing the players to practice ahead of Thursday’s friendly against Nigeria.
The match is being played in Espirito Santo, a small coastal state where no games were held during the 2014 World Cup. Brazil built or renovated 12 stadiums for the competition.
Rafinha Alcantara (Barcelona), Andreas Pereira (Manchester United) and Felipe Anderson (Lazio) are among the biggest names in a squad that will try to win Olympic gold for the first time in August in Rio de Janeiro.
The post Lights go out on Brazil ahead of friendly match appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Ambassador of India to Nepal Ranjit Rae receiving garlands fromstudents at the inauguration of the newly constructed building ofJanapriya Multiple College, in Pokhara, on Monday. The building was constructed with financial assistance of India. Photo: THT
Ambassador of India Ranjit Rae today inaugurated the newly constructed buildings of Shree Indra Rajya Laxmi Higher Secondary School in Lamachaur and Shree Janapriya Multiple Campus in Pokhara.
A press statement issued in the capital today by the Embassy of India said the three-storey building of Indra Rajya Laxmi Higher Secondary School was constructed with Indian government’s assistance of Rs 36.3 million and Janapuriya Campus building was built with assistance of Rs 26.3 million.
The school, established in 1949, provides education to 600 students and 50 per cent of the total students are girls. The campus is a community-based institution affiliated to Tribhuvan University, and is providing education up to masters level to around 3,500 students, of whom 55 per cent are girls.
According to the statement, both projects, carried out under Government of India’s Small Development Project Scheme in cooperation with the Government of Nepal, has been instrumental in promoting socio-economic development in Nepal.
The statement read that in addition to these projects, seven other educational projects had been completed under the same scheme in Kaski in the past.
The Embassy of India also gifted nine ambulances and three buses to the districts to meet local needs.
Likewise, the Government of India has extended assistance of around Rs 300 million for renovation, restoration and upgradation of various religious, cultural and historical sites in Nepal.
The statement further read that the India-Nepal Economic programme had an outlay of over Rs 76 billion with more than 522 large and small development projects completed or currently being implemented in almost all the districts of Nepal.
These development projects, mainly focused on education, health and infrastructure development sectors, have been undertaken in response to local needs in partnership with the Government of Nepal.
During his inaugural speech, Rae highlighted the need to promote education as the main backbone of holistic development of the society and the main drive for developing the nation’s economic as well as social status.
The post Rae inaugurates academic buildings appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Unified CPN-Maoist Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal had once said at a function that left forces in Nepal had split not because of ideological differences but due to the influence of imperialists and other foreign forces.
But today, his statement has proved wrong because differences between the two Maoist parties regarding the line of the parties were so vast that they have not been able to manage them despite several attempts.
CPN-Revolutionary Maoists led by Mohan Baidhya has been mulling over the movement for a New Democratic Revolution, but the UCPN-M claims that the New Democratic Revolution is already over and the country has already begun the journey of Socialist revolution. Secretary of the CPN-RM Dev Prasad Gurung said having different political line and that too as contrasting as the two Maoist parties, would lead the parties towards opposite directions.
During the recently held central committee meeting of UCPN-M, leaders had urged the leadership to manage the political line before unification though they all said unity was a must.
One central committee member Renu Chand said the ball was now on the court of CPN-RM.
Chand further said it wouldn’t be acceptable if Baidhya urges cadres to burn the new constitution within days after party unity.
CPN-RM leaders specially Chairman Mohan Baidhya and Vice-chairman C P Gajurel were for bringing the UCPN-M to their political line instead of accepting their line for unity.
Source claimed that General Secretary Ram Bahadur Thapa was preparing a differing view on Chairman Baidhya’s political document regarding party unity and he would present his views during the upcoming central committee meeting of the party slated to begin after a few days.
Thapa, who leads a significant number of leaders and cadres who wish early unity with the UCPN-M, has been mulling a middle path — National People’s Democracy — but that was rejected by Baidhya and his supporters, who termed it a pendulum without a base.
Gurung also said how can one create a different path between two set political lines.
On the other hand, CPN-RM leader Kul Prasad KC has also been leading a campaign of ‘great debate’ for narrowing down the two contrasting political lines of the two Maoist parties. General Secretary of Revolutionary Communist Party Mani Thapa said his party, along with Matrika Yadav-led CPN (Maoist) would unite with UCPN-M within a few months even if the leaders of CPN-RM failed to patch up differences.
The post Different party lines hindering Maoist unity appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un looks at a rocket warhead tip after a simulated test of atmospheric re-entry of a ballistic missile, at an unidentified location in this undated photo released by North Korea’s Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) in Pyongyang on March 15, 2016. Photo: KCNA via Reuters/ File
UNITED NATIONS/ SEOUL: The UN Security Council agreed on Monday to a Chinese request to remove North Korea sanctions on four ships the United Nations had blacklisted for ties to Pyongyang’s arms trade. The agreement came after China secured assurances the vessels would not use North Korean crews, a US official said.
China asked the United States on March 16 for help removing the ships from the UN blacklist, according to a diplomatic cable sent the same day from the US permanent mission at the United Nations to a group of other US embassies.
The cable, reviewed by Reuters, showed wrangling between top diplomats from the United States and China over the tough new North Korea sanctions, weeks after Washington had presented a united front with Beijing, Pyongyang’s main ally and trade partner.
The US mission at the United Nations declined to comment on the cable or make its ambassador, Samantha Power, available for an interview about the cable. The US Treasury Department, which administers US economic and financial sanctions, also declined to comment.
The removal of the four ships was confirmed in a press release, which was seen by Reuters and will soon be issued by the Security Council, according to UN diplomats.
While Washington has been the driving force behind the toughening international sanctions regime, China conducts 90 percent of the trade with North Korea and is the key to enforcing them.
The ships were among 31 vessels sanctioned by the 15-member council on March 2 because they were linked to Ocean Maritime Management (OMM), a North Korean shipping firm known to transport arms and other illicit goods for the secretive state.
“We discovered that they are not OMM ships,” Chinese UN Ambassador Liu Jieyi told Reuters on Monday. “The basis for the listing of the ships is basically that they belong to OMM, so if you make a mistake, then you correct the mistake.”
US and other Western officials have said all the original listings were carefully vetted before the ships were added to the blacklist. That list was appended to the sweeping Security Council resolutions implemented on March 2, following North Korea’s fourth nuclear test in January.
The US official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the Security Council committee on North Korea sanctions agreed to the request after China secured written commitments the four ships would no longer use North Korean crews.
The four ships include the Jin Teng, a cargo ship detained by the Philippines days after the sanctions took effect.
“We’re pleased with the outcome,” said the US official. “It achieved an impact, a real world outcome.”
He added it was a sign of a “productive working relationship with China” on North Korea and that it was “gratifying to see such instant real-world effects” of the UN sanctions regime.
Liu had raised the issue of the four sanctioned vessels last week in a meeting with Power, his US counterpart, according to the cable reviewed by Reuters.
Power approved the unclassified cable, which went to the US mission at the UN and to American embassies in Manila, Tokyo and Seoul. The cable pointed to American frustration with what US officials characterised as China’s attempts to hold up the routine renewal of a UN panel of experts in return for de-listing the ships.
The panel is made up of a team of international experts who monitor and research potential breaches of resolutions against North Korea and recommend entities that could be sanctioned.
Liu had asked Power’s help in removing the ships from the list in an “easy, smooth and quick way,” to get the panel renewed, according to the document’s characterisation of Liu’s request. The easiest way, Liu said, “would be to work quickly to get all these issues settled,” according to the cable.
Power told Liu China’s linking of the issues and attempts to hold up the renewal of the panel was “not going over well in Washington,” according to the cable, and asked China to let the renewal go forward.
“You don’t need to blackmail us, Powers said, as we are indeed interested in operating in good faith,” the cable says of Power’s conversation with Liu.
Liu told Reuters on Monday he expected the experts panel would be “renewed according to the normal procedure in the Security Council”.
The post UN lifts North Korea sanctions on four ships at China’s request appeared first on The Himalayan Times.