2014-01~03
http://www.traveldailynews.asia/news/article/54653/jin-jiang-international-hotels-to

Jin Jiang International Hotels to open Yue Xing Jin Jiang International Hotel Kashi, Kashgar, Xinjiang Province, China
SHANGHAI - Jin Jiang International Hotels officially announces the opening of Yue Xing Jin Jiang International Hotel Kashi and is currently scheduled to open in March, 2014.The hotel is situated in Kashgar, Xinjiang province, China's westernmost city bordering five countries - Afghanistan, India, Pakistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. Conveniently located in Kashgar, it will be within easy access to all the main transportation links and will serve as an ideal base from which visitors can explore the city. Kashgar is a large oasis and continues to be a key city and important trading point along the Silk Road, and has a long rooted Muslim heritage with a population predominantly of Muslim Uyghurs. Kashgar's Old City, is one of the most well preserved traditional Islamic city's in Central Asia and offers many attractions from the largest mosque in China, the Id Kah Mosque, to an 18m high statue of Chairman Mao, and the Kashgar Grand Bizarre, with over 2000 years of history, it is renowned as one of the biggest markets in Central Asia.This five-star luxury hotel and will cover an area of 32,600 square meters and feature 323 well-appointed, elegantly designed and spacious guestrooms and suites, equipped with modern, high-end amenities. The hotel will feature a range of multi-functional rooms to host conferences, meetings, special events and high-end banquets. There will be several dining options including a Teppanyaki restaurant and a restaurant serving a combination of gourmet Chinese cuisines including traditional Xinjiang dishes. The Chinese restaurant will have 15 private dining rooms with a capacity to accommodate up to 110 people. Additional facilities are to include a fully equipped business center, a luxurious modern fitness center, heated indoor swimming pool, spa, beauty salon and games room.Mr. Simon Zhang, Chief Executive Officer of Jin Jiang International Hotel's states,"We look forward to and welcome the opening of Yue Xing Jin Jiang International Hotel Kashi which will be joining our growing portfolio of properties and expansion towards the Northwest China region. It will be the first Jin Jiang branded five-star hotel to open in Kashgar, therefore building a strong brand presence in the city. Kashgar is fast becoming a thriving destination attracting a growing number of leisure and business visitors, and our luxury hotel will set the bench mark for top quality services in the region."
 News: 24124 | Columns: 2276 | Page created in 0.2300 seconds
 A project of: Travel Media Applications | Powered by Opti3W CMS.
© 1999 - 2016, TravelDailyNews • Reproduction of the content is allowed ONLY with clear reference to the TravelDailyNews Asia - Pacific and a link back. Unless, otherwise mentioned by the underdigned writer.
Privacy Policy • 
 Terms & Conditions
