2014-01~03
http://www.examiner.com/article/mh370-off-course-new-data-says-mh370-flew-way-off-course-was-it-sabotage

MH370 off course: New data says MH370 flew way off course, was it sabotage? | Examiner.com
The mystery of what happened to missing flight MH370 on Saturday increases with the passing of the hours and the absence of traces of the plane. Some experts now say the plane was hundreds of miles off course before it allegedly disintegrated in the air and crashed into the Gulf of Thailand, a March 11 report from ABC News explained. But was it an accident or a terrorist attack?
Efforts are focused on locating the wreckage and the study of the profiles of passengers who departed from Kuala Lumpur and were bound for Beijing. Malaysia has announced progress in identifying two people who flew with stolen passports as citizens of Italy and Austria.
Authorities believe that people who boarded the plane with false documents did not come from Xinjiang, a region believed to have organized the latest attacks against Beijing. The Chinese Martyrs Brigade, until know an unknown group, has claimed responsibility for the disappearance of Flight MH370 — but officials are skeptical and said the claim could be a hoax, News.com.au writes.
In a statement, Malaysian Defense Minister Hishamuddin Hussein told media sources he doubted the authenticity of the claim.
“There is no sound or credible grounds to justify their claims,” he stated.
The statement, signed by an anonymous leader, justified the alleged terrorist attack as payback against the Chinese regime's crackdown on Uyghurs (Islamic militants in China). However, Malaysian authorities also do not give credit to claim. "There is no reason to believe its veracity," assured Transport Minister, Datuk Seri Hishammuddin.
China, the country from which two-thirds of the 239 occupants of flight MH370 were from, has shown signs of losing patience with the limited information coming from Malaysia. A government spokesman said that Kuala Lumpur "must do more" to find out what happened and why the plane was off course.
Chinese social networks are filled with complaints from users who claim poor communication by Malaysia Airlines, the company that owns the plane.
Update:Colorado triple homicide: Sex offender brutally murders mother and her 2 kids
The authorities do not rule out kidnapping or attack as the cause of the accident flight MH370, but believe it is too early to know what happened. The Malaysian government tried to summarize the difficulties is finding describing the disappearance of the Boeing 777-200 as "an unprecedented mystery" and said that search for the wreckage involves dozens of ships and aircraft from eight countries.
Kuala Lumpur has requested assistance from the FBI, various international intelligence agencies and authorities in Beijing in an attempt to clarify what happened and find evidence of a hypothetical sabotage.
Urgent: Orion death stars destroy potential planets: Is Earth the next target? (VIDEO)