2014-01~03
http://www.theage.com.au/world/deadly-china-attack-blamed-on-islamic-separatists-20140302-hvfs7.html

Deadly China attack blamed on Islamic separatists
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News, My Clippings, My Comments and user settings.
Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
Mourners gather in front of the train station in China where 29 people were stabbed to death and more than 130 injured.
Beijing: Chinese authorities have condemned a mass stabbing that has left at least 29 dead at a crowded railway station as a premeditated terrorist attack orchestrated by separatists from the restive western region of Xinjiang, as security experts warned of the possibility of more attacks across the country ahead of a key political meeting.
Police shot dead four attackers and arrested one, and were hunting other suspects in the attack on Saturday night which also left at least 143 injured at the Kunming Railway Station in Yunnan province, according to state media.
Eyewitnesses gave chilling accounts of as many as 10 masked, knife-wielding assailants dressed in black, slashing at crowds indiscriminately.

 Police officers investigate the crime scene outside a railway station after an attack by knife wielding men leaving some 29 people dead in Kunming. Photo: AP

Wang Yu, a man in his twenties from Harbin, said his mother was killed after she failed to get away from attackers when she tripped over a chair.
"I wasn't able to pick up my mother, my father was trying to pull her away, [but] then the attacker stabbed my mother in the throat," he told official news agency Xinhua.
Local news outlets in Kunming relayed graphic scenes of victims prone on the train station floor in pools of blood. Eyewitnesses described the attackers as being equipped with multiple blades, leaving some buried in their victims during the stabbing frenzy. Others reported seeing assailants stabbing victims multiple times to ensure they were dead.

 A woman reacts, at the crime scene outside a railway station after an attack, in Kunming, in southwestern China's Yunnan province. Photo: AP

Authorities have yet to identify the attackers but said "evidence found at the scene" showed it was a "an organised, premeditated violent terrorist attack" carried out by Xinjiang "separatist forces".
Chinese authorities have also blamed a series of violent incidents that have escalated in frequency and severity in the past year on extremists from the Muslim ethnic Uighur minority from Xinjiang, accusing them of conspiring with overseas based groups, including the murky East Turkestan Islamic Movement, in an effort to split Xinjiang from the rest of China.
Uighur rights groups say state media reports of violence in Xinjiang lack credibility, and that accusations of organised terror activity are merely used to justify oppressive government policies including restrictions on religion and culture.

 Chinese police investigators inspect the scene of an attack at the railway station in Kunming. Photo: AFP

While most of the recent violence has occurred in Xinjiang, Saturday's assault took place more than 1000 kilometres to the southeast in Yunnan, which has not had a history of unrest.
Chinese security experts said this was another sign, after an October suicide car attack at Tiananmen Square in Beijing, that there were plans to strike at targets throughout the country. 
The timing of the attack, just three days before China's most important annual political set-piece event, the National People's Congress, kicks off in Beijing, also pointed at political motivations, they said.
"This time it's Kunming, but you can't rule out it happening in other places next time," said Li Wei, director of the anti-terrorism research centre of the China Institute of Contemporary International Relations.
Li Sheng, a Xinjiang expert from the China Academy of Social Sciences, said "East Turkestan forces are also playing politics, they know carrying out terrorist attacks at major national events like the National People's Congress can broaden their influence."
President Xi Jinping released a statement condemning the attack, calling for "all-out efforts" to bring the culprits to justice, and to "crack down on violent terrorist activities in all forms".

 Compare variable rates as low as 3.99% p.a. now

 All Galaxy S7 plans from all major telcos available now

 Grab a bargain on one of the year's best phones