2014-01~03
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Only-religious-freedom-can-ensure-China's-social-and-economic-stability-30538.html

CHINA Only religious freedom can ensure China's social and economic stability
Beijing (AsiaNews)
- The Kunming
massacre, which was attributed to ethnic
Uyghurs, has reopened the debate on religious freedom and ethnic pluralism
in China. As Chinese authorities and public opinion turn against the Turkic Muslim
minority, analysts and experts discuss the best ways to eliminate the threat of
religious extremism and separatist movements. Some
argue that the only way forward is total repression of religions and their
members; others propose opening channels of dialogue.
Immediately
after the massacre on 1 March (29 dead and 110 injured), police launched a
campaign of arrests and internet censorship. Ilham Tohti, economics professor
at Beijing's Minzu University of China, was arrested on charges of separatism. Dozens
of bloggers, including ethnic Han Chinese, were interrogated for hours after
posting comments in favour of the Uyghurs. Several Uyghur stores in Beijing were
forced to close after they became the target of violent acts and "warnings".

Zhu
Weiqun, chairman of the Ethnic and Religious Affairs Committee of the Chinese
People's Political Consultative Conference, tried to calm things down. "Most Uyghurs,"
he said, "are with us in the fight against separatism and violent terrorism.
Brian
J. Grim, director of the Pew Research Center on religions for many years and
now president of the Business & Religious Freedom Foundation, is convinced that
only greater freedom for religions and other identity-based groups can lead to
social harmony.
Recent
studies in fact have shown that religion-related social hostilities rose
four-fold between 2007 and 2012 in China. For
Grim, only allowing religious believers to contribute to society will the
country ensure its economic stability, something that could not have been
possible had greater repression been applied. An analysis of the situation, courtesy
of the author, follows.
According to
data from the ongoing 'Pew Research global restrictions study,' social
hostilities involving religion in China increased fourfold between 2007 and
2012.
This weekend's
attack at the train station in Kunming, one of China's largest terminals, is
the largest attack outside of Xinjiang. The predominantly Muslim Uyghurs used
to be the majority population in the far northwest Xinjiang region of China,
but due to immigration from other parts of China, they now represent less that
50% of the region's population.
Separatists have
mounted a series of attacks even as security restrictions in the region have
tightened. In response to the separatist movement, the Chinese government has
also tightened restrictions on religion in the region.
In fact, data
from the same Pew Research study finds that overall restrictions on religion in
China, which were already very high, have also increased during the same time
period.
Chinese
authorities argue that such restrictions on religion are needed to maintain
security, promote social harmony and keep religious hostilities in check.
However, the data suggest that rather than reducing religious hostilities,
added restrictions on religion may add to the grievances.  
Social science
research has identified this as a religious violence cycle. For instance, Brian
J. Grim and Roger Finke in The Price of
Freedom Denied show that, contrary to popular opinion, ensuring religious
freedom for all reduces religious violence and conflict. While it may be that
some restrictions on religion are necessary to maintain order or preserve a
peaceful religious homogeneity, the research shows that restricting religious
freedoms is associated with higher levels of violence, not less.
Answering this
question is particularly important in China because it has the largest
religious population of any country besides India, according to Pew Research
demographic studies.
In a recent Religious News Service interview, I
noted that while China may have some of the highest restrictions on religion in
the world, there have nonetheless been great strides in the past 50 years.
I noted that
during the Cultural Revolution in the 1960s and 1970s, all religions were
suppressed. People who identified with a religion were subject to beatings,
relocation and even execution.
"You'd have
been hard pressed to find anyone willing to admit they were religious in that
time," I said.
But today,
almost one-in-two people in China follow a faith. 300 million Chinese are
affiliated with folk religions. Globally this means that more than seven-in-ten
(73%) of the world's folk religionists live in China.
China not only
leads the world in the number of folk religionists, but also in the number of
Buddhists. Some 244 million people in China adhere to Buddhism, making China
home to half (50%) of the world's 488 million Buddhists.
Moreover,
China's 68 million Christians make China home to the world's seventh-largest
Christian population. China's approximately 25 million Muslims constitute the
world's 17th largest Muslim population, right after Saudi Arabia (# 16) and
before Yemen (#18).
And China has
the world's second largest shares of people who belong to faiths in the "other
religion" category (16%), many of whom are adherents of Taoism. The World
Religion Database estimates there are more than 8 million Taoists worldwide.
China's economic
success would not have been possible had the country kept religion and other
forms of identity completely suppressed. [In the interview, I] said, "I'm
not making the argument that religious freedom was what launched the country's
economic success, but if draconian restrictions on religion and other things
had not been lifted, the level of success we see today would not have been
attained."
Indeed, solving China's religious
hostilities problem not only will pay dividends for social harmony, but also in
helping to consolidate and mature the economic advances of the past decades.
AsiaNews spoke to Josephine, one of hundreds of Christians from Al-Hasakah, who spent a year in the hands of the Islamic State group. She talked about psychological suffering, conversion attempts, and separation from her male relatives. She survived thanks to her faith. Her mother Caroline, a Caritas official, is the only one in her family to have been spared the ordeal. She also negotiated their release with IS, and gave a Jihadi copies of the Bible. Now she hopes “to meet the pope” with her entire family.
Sister Rani Maria was killed in 1995, stabbed 54 times. The murderer was a radical Hindu, incited by village leaders, who wanted to stop the nun's activities in favor of tribal poor. The path "that led me to forgive Samunder Singh has not been easy, but now he's my brother." Instead, "my mother said once: 'I would kiss his hands, because on them there is the blood of my daughter'." The exchange of the Indian bracelet that celebrates love between siblings; the moment of encounter with the victim's mother.

 
2003 © All rights reserved - AsiaNews C.F. e P.Iva: 00889190153 - GLACOM®
Copyright ÂŠ 2003 AsiaNews C.F. 00889190153 All rights reserved. Content on this site is made available for personal, non-commercial use only. You may not reproduce, republish, sell or otherwise distribute the content or any modified or altered versions of it without the express written permission of the editor. Photos on AsiaNews.it are largely taken from the internet and thus considered to be in the public domain. Anyone contrary to their publication need only contact the editorial office which will immediately proceed to remove the photos.