2014-01~03
http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/editorials/archives/2014/03/18/2003585925

Uighur leader vows revenge on China from his hideout in Pakistan - Taipei Times
Entrenched in secret mountain bases on Pakistan’s border with Afghanistan, Uighur fighters are gearing up for retribution against China. They seek to avenge the deaths of comrades killed during Beijing’s crackdown on the Uighur separatist movement, their leader told reporters.
China, Pakistan’s only major ally in the region, has long urged Islamabad to weed out what it describes as militants from its western region of Xinjiang, who are holed up in a lawless tribal belt. A lethal mix of militant groups are present here, including the Taliban and al-Qaeda.
A mass stabbing at a train station in the Chinese city of Kunming two weeks ago, in which at least 29 people were killed, has put a new spotlight on the largely Muslim Uighur ethnic minority from Xinjiang. Beijing says armed groups seek to establish an independent state called East Turkestan in the province.
Beijing has called the Kunming bloodshed a “terrorist attack” carried out by militants, and says separatists operate training camps across the rugged border that abuts Pakistan and Afghanistan.
In a rare, but brief interview, Abdullah Mansour, leader of the rebel Turkestan Islamic Party, said it was his holy duty to fight the Chinese.
“The fight against China is our Islamic responsibility and we have to fulfill it,” he said from an undisclosed location.
“China is not only our enemy, but it is the enemy of all Muslims... We have plans for many attacks in China,” he said, speaking in the Uighur language through an interpreter.
“We have a message to China that East Turkestan people and other Muslims have woken up. They cannot suppress us and Islam any more. Muslims will take revenge,” he added.
Mansour spoke on a crackly line using a mobile phone with an Afghan SIM card in a brief statement which gave reporters no chance to ask about the Kunming attack.
The separatists hide mainly in the troubled North Waziristan region, where they are treated by their Pakistani Taliban hosts as guests of honor, say militant and Pakistani intelligence sources.
The Turkestan Islamic Party, which China equates with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, keeps a low profile in Pakistan. Unlike the Taliban, it very seldom posts videos promoting its activities or ideology. Its exact size is unknown and some experts dispute its ability to orchestrate attacks in China, or that it exists at all as a cohesive group.
Getting hold of leaders such as Mansour is almost impossible and interviews are usually very brief and conducted from undisclosed locations through a Pashto-speaking translator.
Pakistani intelligence sources say they number about 400 fighters, and are clustered around the remote Mir Ali area, sharing bases with other foreign insurgents, particularly Uzbeks, who speak a similar language.
In Afghanistan this year, two security reports sent to expatriates working there warned of planned attacks on a Chinese hotel, Chinese companies and other targets in Kabul. There have been no attacks so far.
According to Afghan Taliban sources, there are about 250 Uighur militants in Afghanistan’s Nuristan and Kunar provinces.
“They live here with us, but are always concerned about their people and mission in China. They are nice people, good Muslims and the best fighters,” a senior Taliban commander said.
He added that Uighur militants were not fond of guns, and preferred to use knives and daggers.
Comments will be moderated. Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned.