2014-01~03
http://www.spacewar.com/reports/China_policeman_tells_of_shooting_Kunming_attackers_999.html/RK=0/RS=xBp2xbyQY5opuY1V45ckwbEakbU-

China policeman tells of shooting Kunming attackers


Both Beijing and Washington have described Saturday's attack in Kunming which killed 29 people and injured 143 as terrorism. China blames separatists from its restive far-western region of Xinjiang, home to the mainly Muslim Uighur minority.


Qin Guangrong, the Communist Party chief of Yunnan province which includes Kunming, said the eight attackers travelled to his province and Guangdong, which borders Hong Kong, as they tried to leave the country, China Radio International said, in a report that was later deleted from its website.


"These eight individuals originally wanted to join jihad," Qin was quoted as saying.


"They couldn't get out at Yunnan so tried to get out in other places, but they also couldn't leave Guangdong, so once again they returned to Yunnan."


When the group failed to escape through southern Yunnan's Honghe county -- which borders Vietnam -- they hatched the plan to target either the frontier area or Kunming's transport terminals, the report quoted Qin as saying.


His comments had some similarities with an earlier report by US-funded broadcaster Radio Free Asia (RFA), which quoted sources as saying the eight attackers travelled from Xinjiang to Yunnan in order to cross the border into Laos on their way to seek sanctuary elsewhere.


RFA's sources said the eight may have been Uighurs fleeing a police crackdown in Xinjiang's Hotan prefecture.


The sources said they could have given up their attempt to leave after another group of about 30 Uighurs was detained in the border area in September.


It quoted a Uighur in Kunming as saying they may have decided to go on a killing spree to avenge the deaths of others in Xinjiang.


"They were likely reacting to the extra-judicial killings that have occurred about a dozen times last year in Xinjiang," the Uighur was quoted as saying. "Their message to the government was, 'We can do something also'."


The assault that state media dubbed "China's 9/11" has shocked the nation, and led to security being strengthened across the country.


The public security ministry said an eight-strong gang carried out the attack, with three suspects captured Monday and five assailants shot at the scene, four of them fatally.


The vast and resource-rich region of Xinjiang has for years been hit by occasional unrest that authorities blame on Uighurs, saying China faces a violent separatist movement in the area motivated by religious extremism and linked to foreign terrorist groups.


Rights groups say the tensions are driven by cultural oppression, intrusive security measures and an influx of majority Han Chinese, resulting in decades of discrimination and economic inequality.


Beijing insists that its policies in the region have brought prosperity and higher living standards.


 Chinese state television on Tuesday broadcast an interview with a police officer said to have shot five knife-wielding thugs who killed and injured scores of people in a railway station attack in Kunming.


Security remained tight and residents were nervous in the southwestern city, four days after the assault that state media dubbed "China's 9/11".


Both Beijing and Washington have described the attack as terrorism, with China blaming separatists from its restive far-western region of Xinjiang -- home to the mainly Muslim Uighur minority -- for killing 29 people and injuring 143.


The unnamed officer, whose face was not shown, said it took him 15 seconds to shoot the five attackers -- four of them fatally -- during the assault.


He leads a four-member emergency response team that arrived at the scene 10 minutes after the stabbing started but was the only one equipped with an automatic rifle, he told state broadcaster China Central Television (CCTV).


"Some people were being held on the ground and they were still stabbing them," he said.


Five of the attackers turned towards him, he said, and he fired a warning shot but they did not respond.


He then shot at the one closest to him, who was "in black clothes and veiled (and) held a knife about 60-70 centimetres (24-27 inches)" long.


"The other four did not back off and continued to run at me, with knives," the police officer said in the interview. "I shot all of them.


"It probably took 15 seconds from firing the first shot to the moment when all five were shot and fell to the ground.".


Few further details were given by CCTV for what the team did between arriving at the station and the officer opening fire, or afterwards.


Some reports have said the entire incident lasted as long as 25 minutes. The discrepancy remains unexplained.


"I think I saved many innocent civilians. I did right by the people of Kunming and I did right by using my gun," the policeman told CCTV.


Railway police officer Zhang Liyuan, who lost a finger in the assault, told state news agency Xinhua how he had chased the attackers.


"One of the attackers turned around and cut right on my hand," Zhang said, adding that two of his colleagues were stabbed in the head and abdomen.


The public security ministry said an eight-strong gang carried out the attack, with three other suspects captured Monday. Four assailants were shot dead at the scene and one injured woman was detained, it said.


The Communist Party head of Yunnan province said Tuesday that the woman had confessed, according to a news portal run by the national prosecuting authority.


Police maintained a prominent presence at Kunming station Tuesday, with two riot vans next to the main plaza in front of the scene of the attack.


Armed guards were also on watch at the airport's main entrances, and paramilitary police with riot shields patrolled the terminal building.


Police vans were parked at many of the city's major junctions and officers patrolled the ground floor of Kunming's Number One People's Hospital, where casualties were still being treated. Witnesses have described how the attackers aimed for their victims' heads and necks to achieve maximum casualties.


A memorial service for the victims was held in the city centre on Tuesday night, Xinhua said.


The EU presidency, held by Greece, on Tuesday condemned the stabbing spree as "terrorism".


"We express our deep sorrow for the dead and injured," Greek Foreign Minister Evangelos Venizelos told reporters.


Separately, the Munich-based World Uyghur Congress (WUC) strongly condemned the violence and its exiled president, Rebiya Kadeer, appealed to Beijing not to crack down on Uighurs.


"At this time of heightened tensions, it is important the Chinese government deal with the incident rationally and not set about demonising the Uighur people as state enemies," Kadeer said in a statement.


The vast and resource-rich region of Xinjiang has for years been hit by occasional unrest that authorities blame on the Uighurs, saying China faces a violent separatist movement in the area motivated by religious extremism and linked to foreign terrorist groups.


Rights groups say the tensions are driven by cultural oppression, intrusive security measures and an influx of majority Han Chinese, resulting in decades of discrimination and economic inequality. Beijing insists that its policies in the region have brought prosperity and higher living standards.


The WUC said in its statement that it "unequivocally condemns the violence" and also expressed condolences to the victims and their families.


Once a wealthy businesswoman, Kadeer fell out with the Chinese government and was jailed before being released in 2005 and moving to the United States, where she is based.


Foreign ministry spokesman Qin Gang dismissed the WUC as "an anti-China separatist organisation" that was "not qualified to represent Uighurs in China".