2014-01~03
http://ajw.asahi.com/article/behind_news/social_affairs/AJ201403220037

Kobe University Chinese scholar goes missing in China - AJW by The Asahi Shimbun
A Chinese-born academic at Kobe University who has done prize-winning research on ethnic Uighurs in China seems to have vanished into thin air after returning to his homeland for a brief visit.
University officials are trying to contact 57-year-old Wang Ke, a professor of area cultural studies in the Faculty of Intercultural Studies.
Wang's specialty is modern Chinese philosophical history, but he is also known for his research on the Uighurs.
According to Kobe University officials, Wang departed for China on March 1, and planned to return to Japan on March 10.
However, on March 10, he phoned his family in Japan and told them his return would be delayed because he needed to look in on his mother in Xian who he said was not feeling well.
Family members have not heard from him since his phone call. They also checked on Wang's mother and found out that she was not ill. They subsequently conferred with Kobe University officials on March 19.
Wang had been scheduled to attend a symposium in Singapore on March 21. However, symposium sponsors said they were contacted by Wang, who told them he would not be able to attend.
Wang was born in Henan province, China. He completed the doctoral program at the University of Tokyo's Graduate School of Arts and Sciences in 1994. He has been a professor at Kobe University since 2001.
In 1996, his book about the Uighur independence movement during the 1930s and 40s was awarded the prestigious Suntory Prize for Social Sciences and Humanities.
It is not the first time a Japan-based researcher has not been heard from while visiting China.
In July 2013, China detained Zhu Jianrong, a professor of international relations and Chinese history at Toyo Gakuen University in Tokyo, while he was visiting China. Zhu was released in January and returned to Japan.
Ilham Tohti, a prominent Uighur economist calling for fair political treatment of the Turkic ethnic group in China, has been held in detention since January.
'Monkey King' is star attraction at Chinese New Year lantern fest
NAGASAKI--Crowds descending on the Nagasaki Lantern Festival here are set to be dazzled by a 10-meter-high lantern inspired by the classic Chinese novel “Journey to the West” when it opens Feb. 8.
YOKOHAMA--Once most popular with office workers during weekday lunch hours and families on weekends, Yokohama's famed Chinatown is evolving to meet the demands of its new clientele.
NARITA, Chiba Prefecture--Passenger and flight numbers at Narita International Airport scaled new heights in 2015, the airport’s operator announced on Jan. 21, providing further evidence of Japan’s continuing foreign tourism boom.
10 million foreign travelers use Kansai Airport in 2015, outnumbering Japanese
IZUMISANO, Osaka Prefecture--The annual number of foreign travelers using Kansai International Airport for international flights broke 10 million for the first time in 2015, the airport operator said Jan. 18.
Abandoned in Manchuria, Japanese migrants became ‘living corpses’ after World War II
Hundreds of thousands of Japanese migrated to Manchuria in northeastern China early in the Showa Era (1926-1989) to pursue dreams of owning farmland in sizes unheard of in Japan.
Copyright The Asahi Shimbun Company. All rights reserved. No reproduction or republication without written permission.