2014-01~03
http://www.unpo.org/article/16913

UNPO: UNPO Condemns Recent Attacks at Kunming Station and Calls for Restraint, Dialogue and a Renewed Effort to Address Uyghur Human Rights in China
Brussels, 4 March 2014 - The Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization (UNPO) and the World Uyghur Congress, the representative body of the Uyghurs, denounce the violent attacks, which took place on 1 March 2014 at Kunming’s main railway station in southern China. The official state news agency Xinhua reported that the attacks were perpetrated by six men and two women, four of which, were shot dead by police at the scene, one woman was arrested, while the remaining three were detained on 3 March 2014. While the Chinese officials have claimed that the group was led by Abdurehim Kurban, they have not disclosed further information and have systematically deleted social media posts discussing the incident.   
The Chinese authorities have labelled the knife attacks as “acts of terrorism” with overseas support, and blamed “separatists” from the north-western region of ‘Xinjiang’ or East Turkestan, home to Uyghurs, China’s Muslim minority. The incident is the bloodiest attack attributed to “Uyghur separatism”; a label, which will inevitably leave a mark on Uyghur-Han relations, and provide the Chinese Government with an impetus to consolidate its oppressive and discriminatory policies in East Turkestan. A local state-run newspaper has already called on the authorities to implement tougher measures to stifle “terrorist” activities. Yet, some experts remain sceptical about the perpetrators’ connection to international terrorism, taking into account the low-tech weapons and unsophisticated methods employed. Furthermore, no group has claimed responsibility for the attack.
The act of aggression sent shockwaves across the country, particularly as Kunmig has never been a site of ethnic tensions. Although the southern city does not have a large Uyghur population (it is believed to number no more than 60), armed police forces have been deployed to patrol the streets and carry out identity checks, particularly targeting Uyghurs in the area.
UNPO urges the Chinese Government to reassure the Uyghur community that it will not be subjected to unnecessary and discriminatory retaliation measures or reprisals. A strategy of finger-pointing may have long-term undesirable consequences for inter-ethnic relations; demonising the Uyghur people as ‘state enemies’ will incriminate the entire Uyghur population, feed mutual mistrust and further expose the vulnerable Uyghur minority to retaliations. Indiscriminate targeting of Uyghurs based on their religion or culture would also represent a violation of UN Security Council Resolution 2129.
As the Chinese authorities attempt to restore order and safety for its citizens, the opportunity to reflect on the motives behind the gruesome attack should be seized. It is absolutely vital that the Chinese government address the longstanding and deteriorating human rights situation facing Uyghurs, if tensions are to be reduced. The Chinese Government must also conduct an open and transparent investigation to rebuild confidence in the outcome of the investigations.
UNPO calls on the Chinese authorities and the Uyghur community to show a measured response and commence a renewed and proactive interest in diminishing inter-ethnic tensions through dialogue, which are likely to be exacerbated after the assault. Additionally, UNPO will continue to support all peaceful and legitimate forms of dissent - non-violence is one of the core principles of UNPO - and calls on the Chinese Government to respect the right of Uyghurs to protest and voice their concerns in accordance with international law.

 Telephone: +32 (0) 251 31459
 Fax: +32 (0) 251 31495 
 Email: unpo@unpo.org 
 © 2010-2014 UNPO | Webdesign: IBIS Services

 Laan van Meerdervoort 70
 2517 AN The Hague
 The Netherlands
