2014-01~03
http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/846026.shtml

Police capture last three terrorist suspects - Global Times
Political advisors Monday pay silent tribute to the victims of the terrorist attack in the southwestern city of Kunming at the opening of the annual session of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference. Photo: Xinhua
Read more in Special Coverage: Police on Monday captured the remaining three suspects who were involved in a terrorist attack in Kunming which killed 29 people and injured 143. The Ministry of Public Security said in a statement that the terrorist gang of eight members, including two women, led by Uyghur man Abdurehim Kurban was responsible for the attack. Police shot and killed four suspects at the scene, and captured an injured female on Saturday. The knife-wielding attackers stormed Kunming Railway Station in Yunnan Province Saturday at 9:20 pm, stabbing victims at random. China's foreign ministry spokesperson Qin Gang said Monday that evidence, such as flags related to the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), an international terrorist organization, was found at the scene. The attack prompted a nationwide alert Sunday and Monday with security ramped up in airports and train and bus stations in Yunnan and neighboring Sichuan and Guizhou provinces.   The mood in Kunming was calm Monday. At the station, there was a heavy police presence around the square in front of the station, where on Sunday evening, mourners gathered to light candles for the slain. Armed and SWAT police patrolled the area and others were at crossroads near the station. By Monday, all signs of the memorial had disappeared.Police in armored vehicles were deployed to Dashuying, the city's largest Uyghur community, but local police dismissed rumors of an outbreak of violence in the area on Saturday night. At a Uyghur restaurant in the community, 10 police officers, one armed, checked the identities of ethnic Uyghur diners. Later in the day, around 20 police officers arrived at a local hotel to check guest identities. Local hospitals continued to treat the wounded, with 20 severely injured still in critical condition. Residents have flocked to hospitals to give blood.Peng Bin, a 51-year-old railway police officer is still in hospital, hovering between life and death. One of Peng's relatives said that he and his colleagues were unarmed, with their guns kept in the storehouse. "We want to ask the authorities why officers weren't armed.  If they were, there wouldn't have been such heavy casualties," he said. Security was also heightened in Beijing where the annual parliamentary meetings have just started. All police officers were called on duty to stand guard in crowded areas, and to check vehicles entering the capital.The attack triggered wide condemnation from the international community. The UN Security Council said on Sunday that it "strongly condemned the terrorist attack," with the EU, Japan and India adding their condemnation.    Russian President Vladimir Putin expressed his condolences and said Russia would further cooperate with China in fighting terrorism. The US Embassy in China said on its official Sina Weibo account on Sunday that they offer their condolences to the victims' families, but instead of calling the incident a terrorist attack they referred to it as a "terrible and senseless act of violence in Kunming."The phrase triggered public fury among Chinese Net users. As of press time, the post has been commented on more than 48,000 times. "Calling the terrorist attack in Kunming 'senseless violence' is just like calling 9/11 a 'regrettable traffic accident,'" read one Net user's post.  "The phrase clearly reflects the double standards the US operates between itself and other countries. Such a term will fuel and protect the act of terrorism and hinder international cooperation," said Li Wei, director of the anti-terrorism study center at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, told the Global Times.