2014-01~03
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/mar/02/china-train-station-knife-attack-police-suspects

China train station knife attack: police hunt suspects | World news | The Guardian


Sunday 2 March 2014 04.54 EST


Last modified on Thursday 28 January 2016 15.05 EST


Chinese police said they were still hunting five of the assailants who hacked to death at least 29 people at a train station in south-western Kunming, in an attack the government has blamed on Xinjiang separatists.
More than 130 were injured in the brutal attack, which began just after 9pm on Saturday. Police shot dead three male and one female attackers at the scene and captured a female suspect, state news agency Xinhua reported. About five others remain on the run.
Xinhua described the violence as "an organised, premeditated violent terrorist attack", and said evidence at the station showed separatists were responsible, citing the Kunming government. It took place days ahead of high-profile political meetings in Beijing.
Witnesses described attackers in black clothing hacking at people apparently at random. Sixteen-year-old student Qiao Yunao told the Associated Press she was waiting to catch a train when people started crying out and running. She then saw a man cut another man's neck.
"I was freaking out, and ran to a fast food store, and many people were running in there to take refuge," she said via the Sina Weibo microblog. "I saw two attackers, both men, one with a watermelon knife and the other with a fruit knife. They were running and chopping whoever they could."
Graphic pictures showing bloodied bodies and accounts of the incident appeared on Sina Weibo, but many were quickly deleted by censors.
The timing is striking because the annual session of China's largely rubber-stamp parliament opens in Beijing on Wednesday. Security is tightened in and around the capital during the runup to the event.
China's president, Xi Jinping, has urged security officials to spare no effort to bring to justice the perpetrators. "Severely punish in accordance with the law the violent terrorists and resolutely crack down on those who have been swollen with arrogance," Xinhua quoted Xi as saying. "Understand the serious and complex nature of combating terrorism … Go all out to maintain social stability."
Security chief Meng Jianzhu, who visited the injured in Kunming, said the attack had exposed the inhuman nature of terrorists. "They inevitably will face the severe punishment of the law. We must mobilise all resources and adopt all means to break this case," he said.
The violence in Kunming follows an incident in Beijing's political heart last October, when a car ploughed into tourists in Tiananmen Square, killing two pedestrians and the three people in the vehicle. Officials blamed that, too, on extremists from the troubled north-western region of Xinjiang, where many in the large Uighur Muslim population chafe at Chinese rule and some seek independence.
At least 100 people have died in outbreaks of violence in the region in the past year. Last month, police killed eight people who they said had attacked patrol cars in Xinjiang. In 2009, almost 200 died in vicious ethnic riots in its capital, Urumqi.
But Kunming, the capital of Yunnan province, is hundreds of miles from Xinjiang. In July 2008, just before the Olympics, a Uighur separatist group claimed responsibility for two bus explosions in the city, but officials said there was no evidence of terrorism.
Sean Roberts, who studies Uighurs at George Washington University, said that if Uighurs were responsible for the train station deaths it would be a new kind of attack – premeditated and outside Xinjiang – but still rudimentary in weaponry. "If it is true that it was carried out by Uighurs, it's much different than anything we've seen to date," he told AP.
But Roberts said it was unclear whether there was an organised Uighur militant group and that attacks so far do not appear linked to any "global terrorist network because we're not seeing things like sophisticated explosives or essentially sophisticated tactics".
A commentary on the English website of the state newspaper Global Times described the attack as "China's 9/11", warning: "The latest attacks in Beijing and Kunming have clearly indicated a despicable trend that separatists are targeting civilians out of Xinjiang. "It also showed a shift in their attack strategies from targeting symbols of the government, such as public security stations and police vehicles, to roadside civilians."
The United Nations secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon, has condemned the "terrible" attack. "The secretary-general notes that there is no justification for the killing of innocent civilians and hopes that those responsible will be brought to justice," a UN spokesperson added.
Sign in
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.


We’re doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
