2014-01~03
http://voiceofrussia.com/2014_03_09/4-people-had-fake-IDs-on-missing-flight-MH370-report-7381/

Uighurs will be first suspected of terror attack on Malasian airlines flight, if it really took place - expert - News - World - The Voice of Russia: News, Breaking news, Politics, Economics, Business, Russia, International current events, Expert opinion, podcasts, Video
The Malaysian Airlines Boeing 777-200 plane disappeared early Saturday as it was carrying 227 passengers. Experts believe there are no signs of a terrorist attack on a plane. But, as Francesco Sisci, a Beijing-based journalist who writes for Asia time online and SINOGRAPH, said in an interview with the Voice of Russia, if the attack really took place, Uighurs will be the first people suspected of that.
Francesco, what are the authorities in Bejing saying about the tragedy?
Things are very unclear. Now Bejing is kind to follow these lead which is a four people travelled under fake identities to Beijing, now it is all not clear what kind of people were: two pretended to be one Italian, one Austrian, two possibly Chinese but Chinese with fake identities. There is an accumulating suspicion that there might be a terrorist plot in there. These are just rumors and suppositions.
Let's come back to that. Let me ask you this: what is the public reaction to the accident?
Read More: Family of Chinese passenger missing on flight MH370 makes contact with his phone

Well, people are scared and surprised. I mean, Malaysian airlines is considered to be a very good airline, the airplane was supposed to be a very good airplane. So this tends to scare people because of terrorism. An just a few days ago eight Uighurskilled thirty people and wounded about 140 others attacking them with swords in Kunming. So this atmosphere is really in a way scary.
You mentioned it, that is really what I'd like to ask you: is there any kind of connection possibly? Are people suggesting that the two events could have been related? I mean Uighurs, of course, were Muslims and they did kill 14 different people in a horrendous attack at the train station. Is this somehow possibly connected to the missing airplane?
These are conjectures. I mean, we are going way far away but if there was a terrorist act Uighurs might be the first people suspected for that. But it is a very far away hypothesis, we don't have the plane, we don't know who the people who travelled under fake identities were. Nobody is claimed responsibility for the attack. So it is just simply unclear.
No groups on the ground. You are not seeing any type of group that is claimed responsibility, if there would have been a terrorist attack, there has been silence so far, is that correct?
There might be, but for the Kunming attack, the train station attack no group claimed responsibility either. So that might be a strategy too. It is just so confusing and this confusion of course is the same that in a way puts everybody in suspense because you don't know – it might be just an accident, nobody knows how to read this event.
Back to the people that were involved, we are talking about relatives and family members, what aid has been rendered to the relatives of the passengers?
As far as Chinese press is reporting they have been kept in a hotel, they've been accommodated, they are trying to look after them. And as far as we know Chinese authorities are trying to look into the identities of everybody in the passenger list to make sure that everybody was actually traveling with proper passports. So we might have other surprises in the next few days.
What are the possible reasons for the presumed aircraft crash? Is there any other theories that are out there?
One last question that I have for you. There were possibly four different passengers that reported they travelled with stolen passports that we know of now. Some of these passports I read: one was stolen 6 months ago, one was stolen maybe 3 months ago. How is it possible that they were able not only buy tickets but board the airplane and would they have needed visas to travel to China?
This is also another thing unclear. Because some people might have not needed a visa, because these foreigners might have bought a ticket for a passage to other countries and now according to Chinese regulation people can stay in Beijing for 72 hours if they go through Beijing and then move to a different destination. So it is not clear wether these people traveling with fake identities had Chinese visas in the first place. But it is also I think another element of suspicion. I mean, definitely there is something wrong with checking of the passports because apparently at least one passport, the passport of the Italian, was in the Interpol data list as a stolen passport. So the police or the airplane should have flashed this passport as a stolen passport. But this didn't happen. So there is a lot of maybe coincidences.