2014-01~03
http://www.emirates247.com/news/14-killed-in-china-mosque-stampede-xinhua-2014-01-06-1.533667

14 killed in China mosque stampede: Xinhua - Emirates 24|7
In this Sunday, Jan. 5, 2014 photo provided China's official Xinhnua News Agency, an injured woman receives medical treatment at a hospital in Xiji Town of Guyuan, northwest China's Ningxia region. China's Xinhua News Agency said Monday, Jan. 6, 14 people were killed in a stampede at a mosque in the country’s north and 10 other people were injured in the incident in Guyuan. (AP)
Fourteen people, some of them children, were killed and 10 injured in a stampede during a gathering at a mosque in China's Ningxia region, state media reported Monday.

The stampede occurred at lunchtime on Sunday while traditional food was being handed out to people attending an event to commemorate a late religious leader, the official Xinhua news agency said, citing the local government.

The injured were hospitalised, with four in critical condition, the brief report said.

One photo posted online by Chinese news outlets showed six bodies laid out side-by-side inside a building, with several children in colourful outfits among the dead.

"Those poor children," wrote one poster.

Another said: "Are Chinese people so poor, for all this to happen over a piece of pastry?"

Some Internet users displayed images of red candles online to commemorate those who died.

Other pictures posted online showed a large crowd, most of them men and many wearing white Islamic caps, standing outside the green mosque, apparently after the incident.

Clothes and shoes were scattered on the ground, along with what appeared to be a collapsed section of scaffolding.

An inquiry was under way into the cause of the stampede at the mosque in Xiji, around 280 kilometres (174 miles) south of the regional capital Yinchuan.

"The investigation is still underway. We have nothing to reveal," a man at the Xiji county police surnamed Wang told AFP.

Ningxia, in northern China, is home to the Chinese-speaking Hui minority, who are mostly Muslim but distinct from the Uighurs of Xinjiang.

According to government statistics, the semi-desert region's six million Hui make up about 36 percent of its population, with Xiji one of the major Hui population centres.
Ningxia, on the upper reaches of the Yellow river, was the scene of a rebellion in the 19th century but has no recent history of ethnic tensions or other strife between the Hui and China's Han majority.

In contrast, restive Xinjiang, several hundred kilometres to the west, has seen several deadly clashes between Uighurs and security forces in recent months which authorities have blamed on separatist "terrorists".

Xiji is primarily an agricultural county whose main products include wheat, peas and potatoes.

The world's longest aircraft, an airship spanning more than six double-decker buses, is set to make its maiden flight 



When Barcelona superstar Lionel Messi isn't breaking records he's breaking limbs, as one unlucky fan.



An adorable video has emerged of a little girl telling her dad that she is getting ready to go on a date with Harry 



Ukrainian driver takes a different approach to a traffic jam - by going down the other side of the road in reverse.



In the background of an airport interview for Sports Center on Norwegian TV a woman is there one minute...and not the 



The girl plants an innocent kiss on the glass in front of the lion.



Sub-Dh1,700, 4-inch device has specs that match the premium iPhone 6s



Fix surveillance cameras on tower cranes or any high place: Dubai Municipality



Court rules her Native American blood requires her placement with relatives



Women and children flee to relatives' and friends' houses in Dubai and other emirates to escape heat



Fare ranges between Dh50 and Dh570 for regular trips and Dh400 per hour for tourist journey



A prominent Saudi psychiatrist has urged local families to market their daughters for early marriage, saying this would

