2014-01~03
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2014/03/02/after-attack-chinese-authorities-cast-scrutiny-on-xinjiang/

After Attack, Chinese Authorities Cast Scrutiny on Xinjiang - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
Following a brutal attack on passengers at a railway station in the southwest city of Kunming, Chinese authorities quickly cast their scrutiny elsewhere: the ethnically divided, sporadically violent region of Xinjiang.
It is from there, Chinese authorities say, assailants responsible for Saturday’s attack originated. The region is home to sizable populations of minority groups–including Muslim Uighurs, Kazaks and Hui–as well as members of the Han Chinese majority. It has been the site of deadly interethnic clashes in recent years. The region has similarly been home to those whom the government alleges have carried out recent attacks elsewhere in China, including on Tiananmen Square in Beijing. Chinese authorities haven’t identified the ethnicity of the assailants involved in the Kunming attack.
Attacks in recent months have highlighted an unfortunate trend for Chinese leaders. Xinjiang-related violence appears to be spreading beyond Xinjiang’s borders and assailants appear willing to target places where civilians congregate. In October, assailants originating from Xinjiang drove a car into crowds of tourists at Tiananmen Square in Beijing, plowing into a pillar near the gate displaying a huge portrait of Chairman Mao. The car crash and a subsequent explosion killed two tourists as well as the car’s three occupants, and injured many others.
Interethnic tensions and violence have deep roots in Xinjiang. China’s last imperial dynasty, the Qing, waged costly campaigns to annex the region; the name Xinjiang means “new frontier.” Many Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking group, regard the region of deserts, grasslands and forbidding mountains as their homeland. They sometimes call the region East Turkestan or Uighurstan. Nationalist Uighurs set up a short-lived republic in the region in the waning days of World War II. Violent separatism revived in the 1990s, inspired in part by the collapse of the Soviet Union and the independence it brought to Kazakhstan and other Central Asian neighbors.
Beijing has mainly responded to the violence by clamping down and by boosting economic growth, especially investment in developing Xinjiang’s oil and gas industries. But Chinese authorities and many in Xinjiang have yet to agree on the cause of the violence. The Chinese government alleges those taking part in recent attacks are religious extremists and has said some from the region have participated in terror training camps in neighboring Pakistan. Many in Xinjiang, particularly Uighurs, say socioeconomic disparities with Han Chinese is increasingly to blame.
Interethnic riots in Xinjiang’s regional capital of Urumqi in 2009 left around 200 people dead and drew global attention to the anger of many Uighurs toward Chinese rule. Since then the government has redoubled efforts to spur economic development in Xinjiang. A new plan is to turn Xinjiang into a major trade corridor with China’s neighbors in Central Asia in a project dubbed the new Silk Road. The economic-development efforts have brought wealth to parts of the remote region, but Uighurs complain much of that wealth is concentrated in the hands of state-owned enterprises and the many Han entrepreneurs who have flocked to the area.
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

Devils jerseys china Review With Mastercard
cheap Bengals jerseys free shipping http://eastbayrehab.com/ScriptLibrary/incPureUpload.htm
don't be decieved by sina commie's propaganda!
Who did it!
There is no evidence!
why is there no disclosure of much information shot by the security cameras which are being installed by the authority of the public safety commission everywhere around the station.
why can sina authority assert that the attack had been carried out by the terrotist group consisted by Uighur.
why there is no pictures and no digital films shot by the authority.
why there are only the films photos shot by the general public.
why there is no mug shots at all.
tell me, sina commies!
don't be decieved by haphazard sina commies and corrupt current sina regime!
WSJ propaganda couldn't do journalism even if they try. When 3 people die as a result of a bomb in the US, that's terrorism. An organized group of 10 people hacking people to death, that's not terrorism.
5 crazy killers with long knives are still on the loose.
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
