2014-01~03
http://my.news.yahoo.com/conspiracy-theories-abound-search-mh370-enters-third-day-231200092.html

Yahoo

Two SMRT staff members have passed away after an accident on the track near Pasir Ris station Tuesday morning.
 


 
 SCDF at the scene »
 


 Places to go for a nap in the CBD

PETALING JAYA, March 22 — Penang Chief Minister Lim Guan Eng should mull over the option of taking temporary leave while graft-busters look into his RM2.8 million house purchase, Datuk Ambiga...
Don't use the internet in the U.S until you've seen the truth about Online ID protection & anonymity CNN calling this "A game changer for all..
A controversial Malaysian columnist on Monday complained that he was “treated like a terrorist” by Singapore immigration authorities before they eventually refused him entry into the city-state. Ridhuan Tee Abdullah wrote about the incident in his column for Malay-language news site Sinar Online and also published the piece titled "Know the true enemies of Islam” on his Facebook page. My photograph and fingerprints were taken,” he said about a recent experience when he tried to visit Singapore with a friend for personal reasons.
A flight attendant fled when she was selected for a random screening at Los Angeles International Airport, prompting a search that turned up 66 pounds (30 kg) of cocaine in her carry-on bags, a Drug Enforcement Administration spokesman said on Monday. The woman, who had arrived at the terminal on Friday for a flight, abandoned her belongings before escaping on foot, Special Agent Timothy Massino said. A law enforcement source said that the flight attendant had been identified by investigators but not apprehended as of Monday evening.
Apple has gone small -- cutting prices as well as screen size -- unveiling a new iPhone and iPad aimed at first-time buyers and customers in emerging markets. The new launches came as the FBI moved to postpone a high-profile court battle with the US government on encryption and data protection, saying it may have a way to break into an iPhone at the heart of that case. On Sunday, "an outside party demonstrated to the FBI a possible method for unlocking (Syed) Farook's iPhone," prosecutors said in a filing asking a federal judge in Southern California to delay a hearing set for Tuesday.
Men, reduce the look of wrinkles, sagging skin and fine lines with this affordable and effective skin tightening treatment without leaving your home.
KUALA LUMPUR, March 22 ― Senator Datuk Seri S. Nallakaruppan today denied claiming that PKR de facto leader Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim had received RM60 million from a gambling corporation, blaming...
PETALING JAYA, March 22 ― Failure to act on leakages identified annually by the Auditor-General created the environment that allowed an official to siphon over RM100 million from the Youth and...
Jeremy Lin inspired a stunning fightback as the Charlotte Hornets rallied from a 23-point deficit to upset the San Antonio Spurs 91-88. Lin drained 29 points including four three-pointers as the Hornets shocked the in-form Spurs, who were brought crashing back down to earth two days after beating the all-conquering Golden State Warriors. Lin's points haul included a superb fallaway jump shot with 48.4 seconds left which gave the Hornets the lead at 89-88 before adding two free throws with 18.3 seconds on the clock to complete the scoring.
Recent research reveals that 70% of heart attacks are caused by something no one could’ve expected…
KUALA LUMPUR, March 22 ― Two distinct camps have emerged within the top echelon of PKR as the party allies with their leader’s old nemesis Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad in a “Save Malaysia” campaign to...
Entrepreneur Elon Musk and his British actress wife Talulah Riley are to end their marriage for a second time, official sources told AFP. The couple wed in 2010 and remarried in 2013 after a their first divorce, but Riley filed for divorce again in Los Angeles Superior Court on Monday, according to a joint statement sent to AFP. In 2010, he went through a messy divorce from his Canadian-born wife, science-fiction writer Justine Musk, mother of their five sons, including triplets.
KUALA LUMPUR, March 22 — Malaysia’s tallest skyscraper will contribute to the oversupply of office space in the Kuala Lumpur central business district (CBD) when it is completed by 2019, property...
Everything you have ever wanted to know about lower back pain. All on Yahoo Search!
WASHINGTON (AP) — The Latest on campaign 2016 (Eastern Daylight Time):
Kim Kardashian is thrilled to be fitting back into her old clothes after giving birth to son Saint in December (15).
DALLAS (AP) — Texas police on Monday accused the estranged wife of internationally renowned pianist Vadym Kholodenko of killing the couple's two young daughters before stabbing herself.
Don't buy a new PC or call a repair company before reading this. Simple "3 click Fix" will have your computer running like new again.
Khloe Kardashian doesn't see the point in staying in touch with a guy she's "f**ked for two weeks".
A computer system malfunction forced Japan's All Nippon Airways to cancel more than 100 domestic flights on Tuesday, affecting some 16,000 travellers, the carrier said. Passengers lined up patiently at counters to arrange new reservations for later flights as the airline's reservation and check-in hall overflowed with inconvenienced travellers. ANA said it spotted something wrong at about 8:20 am Tuesday (2320 GMT Monday) and though the problem was largely resolved about three hours later at least 127 domestic flights were cancelled by afternoon.
Beijing Max Screen have been punished by Chinese authorities for faking the box office takings for their latest cinema release, ‘Ip Man 3′. According to Variety, the distribution company will be banned from releasing any films for an entire month as punishment, which will surely have a knock-on effect further down the line, especially for filmmakers themselves. Apparently, Max Screen have now admitted to buying up  $8.61 million of tickets to its own movie to give false stats that bumped the number of screenings by an additional 7,600, referred to as ‘ghost screenings’.
In a recent episode of Shark Tank, 2 forward-thinking entrepreneurs revealed a fast developing technology that anyone can invest in. Find out how.
For decades, Hong Kong thrived as an Asian business hub thanks to its killer combination of Western freedoms, independent courts and closeness to mainland China's booming market. Now political and economic ...
By Astrid Zweynert LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Papua New Guinea is the most difficult and expensive place in the world to access clean water, forcing the poor to spend more than half their income on this essential resource, a charity said on Tuesday. Some 650 million people do not have access to clean water, and often have to make do with much less than the 50 litres per person per day the World Health Organization says is necessary for domestic use and to maintain health and hygiene, Water Aid said. Lack of access to an affordable, convenient source of clean water is one of the biggest barriers to escaping a life of poverty and disease, the charity said in its report "State of the World's Water 2016".
Thousands of Indonesian taxi drivers staged a violent protest Tuesday against Uber and other ride-hailing apps, blocking major roads in the capital, clashing with rivals from app-based services and setting tyres alight. The protesters adorned their vehicles with signs saying "stop illegal taxis" and rallied in front of parliament and government buildings, in an upsurge of anger at technology they say is threatening their livelihoods. As convoys of vehicles brought downtown Jakarta to a standstill, the demonstration turned violent, with protesters jumping up and down on vehicles that refused to take part, while stone-throwing drivers and rivals from app-based services clashed in several areas of the city.
Seriously, if you experience any of these 4 symptoms it could mean you're about to have a heart attack. This could save your life.
Zayn Malik claims he wasn't allowed to dye his hair when he was part of teen boy band One Direction.


Workers' Party will not contest Bukit Batok SMC in by-election


Nature groups double MacRitchie walks in March to raise awareness


Tan Cheng Bock: President's role is to 'look after your money'


‘31 Days of Halloween’: Mom Transforms Herself Into Unforgettable Characters


Photos Reveal a Side of Cosplayers You Won’t See at Comic Con


Pamela Anderson Throws Back to Her Iconic '90s Looks in New Missguided Ad Campaign


Jake Gyllenhaal Gushes About Wanting to Have a Family of His Own


Ben Affleck Calls Jennifer Garner a 'Superhero Mom': ‘I'm Really Lucky to Have Her’


Melissa McCarthy Opens Up About ‘The Boss’ Being a Family Affair


Jennifer Lopez Is Overcome with Emotion on Thursday Night’s ‘American Idol’


Watch Emma Watson Drop a Beat in the Name of Gender Equality


Kylie Snapchats the ‘Keeping Up With the Kardashians' Moment When She Met Tyga