2014-01~03
http://en.itar-tass.com/world/723519

TASS: World - Area of search for missing Boeing 777 expanded

 Pope Francis presents condolences to families of FlyDubai's plane crash victims

 Russian court rejects version of ex-pilot Savchenko being abducted from Ukraine

 Submarine defense: Russian subs posing Pacific threat to US Navy

 Number of casualties in Syria drops dramatically since truce took effect — military doctor
Former FSB chief believes Brussels blasts are revenge for Abdeslam’s arrest
Russian court rejects version of ex-pilot Savchenko being abducted from Ukraine
Crews of Russia's Caspian Flotilla cruise missile ships hold drills
Kremlin confirms that Putin will meet Kerry on March 23
Muscovites lay flowers in front of Belgian embassy in Moscow
Russian Foreign Ministry: Double standards policy results in terrorist attacks
According to reports from Pentagon, the US has sent a destroyer to the alleged site of plane’s crash in the Indian Ocean. The ship has helicopters onboard, which will also be used in the search operation. Air and naval forces of China, Vietnam and Malaysia continue exploring the areas of South China Sea and the Strait of Malacca. Ships, airplanes and helicopters of Singapore, the Philippines, Indonesia and India are taking part in the search. In addition, South Korea stated on Friday that it would send two planes to participate in the search operation.
Sky News TV channel reported earlier that satellites located a weak electronic signal from the missing Malaysian Boeing after the communication with it had been lost. The signal came from the troubleshooting system that was ready to send data to the satellite in case if necessary. However, no data was transferred, since Malaysian Airlines, the owner of the missing plane, was not subscribed to full service of this system. In addition, it was reported that communication systems were switched off on the Boeing prior to the alleged change of route.
On Friday, Malaysian Airlines announced that from this day on, the number of Kuala Lumpur – Beijing flight has been changed from МН370/371 to МН318/319. The air carrier took this decision in solidarity with the families of missing passengers and crewmembers.
Communication with Malaysian Airlines’ plane carrying 227 passengers and 12 crewmembers onboard was lost two hours after its departure from Malaysian capital March 7. By now, all attempts to find it remain fruitless.