2014-01~03
http://www.standard.net.au/story/2134398/internet-behind-terrorism-attacks-in-china-including-kunming-railway-massacre-xinjiang-leader/?cs=12

Internet behind terrorism in China, including Kunming railway massacre: Xinjiang leader | The Standard

 The party boss of Xinjiang, Zhang Chunxian, has insisted the government's hardline policies in the restive far-western region are not to blame for the ethnic conflict that spawned the chilling Kunming railway station mass stabbing that claimed 29 lives.

Huge interest ... Chinese Communist Party leader of Xinjiang, Zhang Chunxian, is met by a media scrum after he defended the government's hard-line policies in the country's far west.
Huge interest ... Chinese Communist Party leader of Xinjiang, Zhang Chunxian, is met by a media scrum after he defended the government's hard-line policies in the country's far west.
Huge interest ... Chinese Communist Party leader of Xinjiang, Zhang Chunxian, is met by a media scrum after he defended the government's hard-line policies in the country's far west.
Huge interest ... Chinese Communist Party leader of Xinjiang, Zhang Chunxian, is met by a media scrum after he defended the government's hard-line policies in the country's far west.
Beijing: The top Communist Party official in the restive far-western region of Xinjiang has blamed virtual private networks – technology used to circumvent China’s internet firewalls – for a spate of violence including the mass knife attack at a train station in the southwestern city of Kunming.
Zhang Chunxian said the vast majority of violence in Xinjiang had been motivated by terrorists with access to the "fast flow of information" online.
“By that I mean more than 90 per cent of Xinjiang’s terrorism comes from jumping the [firewall], and accessing internet videos to create terrorism,” he said.
Eight assailants armed with knives and machetes stormed the main railway station in Kunming on Saturday, killing 29 people and injuring 143 others – in a shocking massacre that has provoked an outpouring of grief and outrage across China.
Police shot dead four of the attackers at the scene and have arrested the rest.
China has blamed the attack on separatists from Xinjiang, home to the Turkic-speaking Muslim ethnic Uighur minority.
The Kunming attack has been widely condemned by the international community as an unjustifiable act of terrorism, but has also raised questions about whether the Chinese government's longstanding hardline response to Uighur "separatism" has only contributed to a pattern of intractable unrest.
Speaking to reporters after a Xinjiang delegation meeting on the sidelines of the National People’s Congress in Beijing on Thursday, Mr Zhang refuted suggestions the government’s hardline policies – including so-called “high-pressure” and “strike-hard” security measures – had contributed to the ethnic conflict that spawned the Kunming attack.
“Will it not take place if you don’t strike hard? Will it not take place if you don’t solve the problems?” he said. “Terrorism is not something that happens [because] you fight it; it is a malignant tumour that is borne from society. Those measures that we have taken … have limited terrorism to the fullest extent.”
Rights groups have long blamed the Chinese government's discriminatory and repressive policies on Uighur religion and culture for provoking despair in the region.
More than 100 people have been killed in a series of violent clashes in Xinjiang in the past year, mostly in remote areas where independently verifying conflicting accounts is difficult.
“We don’t target the general public, nor any certain group of people,” Mr Zhang said. “So-called high pressure and strike hard are aimed against terrorists and terrorist crimes.”
The story Internet behind terrorism in China, including Kunming railway massacre: Xinjiang leader first appeared on The Sydney Morning Herald.
Prince Harry is on a five-day visit to Nepal, his first official tour of the country.
 

The hidden issue of eating disorders is being addressed in the south-west
 

Delacombe mechanic poses for trophy photo after hunting down alleged car thief.
 

Australia keep their hopes of qualifying for the ICC World T20 semi-finals alive with a narrow three-wicket win ...
 
