2014-01~03
http://www.thewire.com/global/2014/03/security-tightened-kunming-after-chinese-train-station-knife-attack/358738/

Security Tightened in Kunming After Chinese Train Station Knife Attack - The Wire
Security has been ramped up in Kunming, south-west China, after a horrific mass knife attack left 29 people dead and more than 130 people injured. There are reports of a heavy police presence at the Kunming train station, the site of Saturday’s attack, and in surrounding areas, according to the BBC.
Kunming’s Changshui International Airport saw increased security checks today, and police presence in Beijing is also reportedly higher. On Sunday night, more than 100 people attended a vigil at the Kunming train station to mourn the victims of the attack.
A group of men and women, clad in black and wearing cloth masks, entered the Kunming train station on Saturday, wielding knives, meat cleavers, and swords and randomly stabbed passengers and employees. There were at least 10 suspected attackers, and four were shot dead at the scene.
Chen Bing, a resident of Kunming, told the South China Morning Post: "I hate those terrorists. I want to in any way I can express my feelings of grief for those killed and injured."
Chinese officials blamed Uighur separatists from the country’s Xinjiang region for the attack on Sunday. Uighurs, a Muslim minority group living in far-west China, often shoulder the blame for violence by Chinese authorities, who are known for exaggerating the threat of Islamic terrorism they pose. 
Another man, who didn’t want to be named, told the South China Morning Post that he was concerned with unrest in Xinjiang. “We were never told why there was so much unrest there… what did our government do there to attract that much anger?” he said.
While no group has yet come forward to claim responsibility for the attack, it is hard to verify China’s reports that Uighur extremists are to blame because access to the region for foreign journalists is notoriously restricted. Beijing is expected to say that train station attack demonstrates that the Uighur threat is real.
The United Nations has condemned the attack, with UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon calling the attack “terrible.”
“There is no justification for the killing of innocent civilians,” he said.

 Jonathan Abrams’s fascinating new book looks at the success stories (and the failures) of basketball’s “prep-to-pro” era.


 Jonathan Abrams’s fascinating new book looks at the success stories (and the failures) of basketball’s “prep-to-pro” era.


 Paul Ryan is pushing lawmakers to tackle an issue Republicans have long ignored, but all Democrats see are cuts—and a familiar foil.


 At least 13 people are dead in blasts at the city’s airport and a main train station, news reports say.


 American conservatives are furious about images taken in Havana with the famous revolutionary in the background. Guevara might be even more upset.


 What information, if anything, does a trans woman owe a straight man? A Horace and Pete scene about that subject was dubbed “problematic” due solely to the identity of its writer.


 On Monday, Apple did something it has never done before.


 Controversial remarks by Raymond Moore, the CEO of Indian Wells Tennis Garden, have reignited a conversation about prize money in the sport.


 In the Democrats Abroad primary, the Vermont senator beat his rival by a wide margin and picked up nine delegates.


 Exiled writers use words as art and inspire a community.


 The musical interpretation of the gospels is the ultimate experiment in turning religion into entertainment.


 Two groups left Alexandria for supply runs that went awry.


 The president traveled to Havana on Sunday for a historic three-day visit.


 The amount of recycled material in entertainment is frequently lamented, but it isn’t a new phenomenon.


 The hit song by Twenty One Pilots tackles a generation's insecurities.


 Fanatical about violence and skittish about sexuality, the show exemplifies much of what’s wrong with modern television.


 The highlights from seven days of reading about entertainment


 A photographer slows down his process to capture a population in flux.


 A look at the implications of the State Department’s declaration about the Islamic State’s brutal campaign in Iraq and Syria.


 Jurors in Florida awarded the retired pro wrestler $115 million in his violation-of-privacy lawsuit against the media outlet.


This Is What the Truth Feels Like mines the No Doubt singer’s divorce and tabloid-baiting new romance—but the honesty feels far from radical.


 Netflix’s Pee-wee’s Big Holiday features a 63-year-old man playing a boy who is struggling to become a man. It’s all a little too Cree-pee.


 Jeff Nichols channels M. Night Shyamalan in this tense, focused mystery about a boy with extraordinary powers.


 Michigan Governor Rick Snyder and EPA chief Gina McCarthy on Thursday faced harsh questioning about lead poisoning in the city.


 An investigation shows two unaccounted-for shots, apparently fired by federal officers—and suggestions they tried to cover them up.


 Whether hosting Hamilton or releasing a pop song, Barack and Michelle have used their celebrity status wisely.


 Two presidents, a trove of secretly recorded phone calls, immunity from prosecution, a billion-dollar bribery scandal, and protests.


 In Chester, Montana, a world away from city life inspires an artist's music.


 A portrait of the Los Angeles Times’s food writer, Jonathan Gold, explores how humans connect through food.


 Secretary of State John Kerry announced ISIS is responsible for genocide in areas it controls. The move has been a long time coming.


 The theme park says the killer whales in its care will be its last generation.
