2014-01~03
http://www.columbiatribune.com/import/attack-had-global-link-china-says/article_d0632698-a3cf-11e3-a4ea-10604b9f1ff4.html

Attack had global link, China says - Columbia Daily Tribune | Columbia Missouri: Import
KUNMING, China (AP) — China says the vicious slashing spree that killed 29 people in a southern city was the work of separatists linked to international terrorism, but the assailants' homespun methods and low-tech weapons — nothing more than long knives — have led some analysts to suspect they didn't get outside help.
Officials have blamed secessionists from far-western Xinjiang for Saturday's attack at a train station in Kunming, more than 900 miles to the southeast. It is by far the deadliest attack blamed on Xinjiang militants to have taken place outside the region and has been a wake-up call for Chinese that terrorism can strike anywhere.
KUNMING, China (AP) — China says the vicious slashing spree that killed 29 people in a southern city was the work of separatists linked to international terrorism, but the assailants' homespun methods and low-tech weapons — nothing more than long knives — have led some analysts to suspect they didn't get outside help.
Officials have blamed secessionists from far-western Xinjiang for Saturday's attack at a train station in Kunming, more than 900 miles to the southeast. It is by far the deadliest attack blamed on Xinjiang militants to have taken place outside the region and has been a wake-up call for Chinese that terrorism can strike anywhere.
Members of the Muslim Uighur ethnic group have waged a simmering rebellion against Chinese rule in Xinjiang, where clashes between Uighurs and members of China's Han majority are frequent. Many observers say the Turkic-speaking Uighurs are lashing out because they are being marginalized and feel their culture is being suppressed.
Beijing uses its claim of an international conspiracy to defend its crackdown on Uighur dissent, but there hasn't been substantial evidence to support ties to foreign Muslim extremists.
"Historically, Uighurs have had a difficult time getting traction and attention from the global jihadist movement," said Raffaello Pantucci, London-based senior research fellow at Royal United Services Institute. "We've had a number of videos in which senior members of al-Qaida have highlighted the cause and said this is a group to support and help, but in practical terms we have seen very little actually happen."
No group has claimed responsibility for Saturday's attack, carried out by at least eight black-clad assailants. Although authorities have not explicitly mentioned the attackers' ethnicity, they have shown images of a black flag with a crescent moon said to have been found at the attack site. They cite the flags as evidence of involvement by the East Turkistan Islamic Movement, which the government says has ties to overseas supporters of Uighur separatism. They also say the high number of victims — 143 people wounded in addition to the 29 killed — is evidence the attackers had training.
Sean Roberts of George Washington University's Elliott School of International Affairs, who has studied Uighurs in Central Asia and China, said the Kunming assailants' simple weaponry undermines claims of links to international terrorist groups, but said some Uighurs might be growing more militant.
"The ongoing development and further marginalization of the Uighurs, and particularly the suppression of Uighur dissent and constantly associating it with terrorism by the state, is likely to eventually lead to a self-fulfilling prophecy," Roberts said.
To China, even the attackers' clothes are a sign of foreign involvement.
"The attackers chose to dress in black, and black is the color of the holy war in international terrorist activities," Chinese anti-terrorism expert Li Wei said.
Authorities in Kunming fatally shot four attackers Saturday night and detained one suspect — a woman. Two days later, police captured three others and said the attack was the work of an eight-person gang led by a person identified as Abdurehim Kurban, according to state media. Authorities have released no other details.
Kunming has had little history of ethnic unrest, and residents there expressed shock and outrage.
"Kunming is a tourist city in China, and I could never have imagined this to happen here," said Chen Bin, a security guard.
Although Beijing has long blamed the East Turkistan Islamic Movement for instigating violence in Xinjiang, many experts doubt it exists in any organized way. The United States added the group to its list of terrorist organizations in 2002, but later removed it.
© 2016 Columbia Daily Tribune. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

 Posted in
 News,
 Wire
 
 on 
 
 Tuesday, March 4, 2014 2:00 pm. 
 

SUBSCRIBE to the Tribune today and save more than 50%. You can cancel at any time.
Topics: 
 
China,
 

East Turkestan Independence Movement,
 

Islam In China,
 

Elliott School Of International Affairs,
 

Royal United Services Institute,
 

Terrorism In Pakistan,
 

Terrorism In China,
 

Uyghur People,
 

Uyghur Unrest,
 

Al-qaeda


FACT CHECK See inaccurate information in this story? Tell us here.
 

The opinions expressed below are those of the readers who submitted them. Readers are solely responsible for the content of their comments. For more information, please read our policy regarding comments.

Your comment will appear under your Facebook identity. To comment using your Tribune username, and to have unlimited access to local content, become a Tribune online subscriber.
By default the full name from you user profile will be displayed with your comment. You can edit this at http://www.columbiatribune.com/users/admin/profile/edit/.


Joe Machens Nissan wishes to serve your needs any way possible.


LINKS: Contact Us, Staff Directory, Privacy Policy, E-mail Editions, Subscribe

© Copyright 2016, Columbia Daily Tribune, Columbia, MO. [Terms of Use | Privacy Policy]
