2014-01~03
http://www.timeslive.co.za/thetimes/2014/03/03/terror-as-29-killed-in-knife-frenzy

Terror as 29 killed in knife frenzy - Times LIVE

 The position of “bunking Jeppe Police Station Commander” is “under review as a matter of urgency”.

 Malawi is at loggerheads with Mozambique over the handling of over 12 000 Mozambican refugees, currently living in makeshift camps at Kapise in the border district of Mwanza.

 The man behind a deadly siege at a Sydney cafe fired at some of the hostages as they escaped but missed, possibly because of his limited experience with guns, an inquest heard.

 The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) on Tuesday chose not to attack Jackson Mthembu’s “weaknesses”‚ and hoped “that he will be able to concede to superior logic during debates and deliberations” in his new job.

 Kaizer Chiefs held Asec Mimosas to a 0-0 draw in the second leg of their Caf Champions League first-round tie at Houphouet Boigny Stadium in Abidjan on Sunday‚ which was not enough to prevent Amakhosi exiting 1-0 on aggregate.

 Joe Pietersen missed a simple penalty after the hooter to leave the Sharks and Bulls tied for a 16-16 draw at Loftus on Friday.

 AB de Villiers announced himself at the World Twenty20 with a swashbuckling 64 and made Afghanistan pay heavily for dropping him twice as South Africa revived their campaign with a 37-run victory at the Wankhede Stadium on Sunday.

 With another $6.3-million up for grabs when the PGA Tour completes its Florida swing, it is an opportune moment to salute the prime architect behind such riches.

 More than two dozen players who feature in evidence collected from gamblers should be investigated for possible links to betting rings, an Italian prosecutor has told the BBC and BuzzFeed News.

 Nico Rosberg capitalised on a slow start off pole by world champion teammate Lewis Hamilton and superior tyre strategy over Ferrari to win the season-opening Australian Grand Prix on Sunday.

 In the build-up to a fight, it's not just Hekkie Budler who makes sacrifices - wife Roxy also has to do her bit.

 Michael Jackson's children will reportedly lose most of their R19,594,205,244 inheritance to tax bills and other debts.

 The Who's Roger Daltrey, musician Jools Holland and producer Pete Waterman are involved in opening a R135,662,495 model-railway exhibition centre in Kent.

 Zebra & Giraffe has announced that they are splitting up after eight years.

 Sunday Times and Delta Airlines are giving away three pairs of plane tickets to any American city.

 It was back in 2012 that the United Nations first declared March 20 International Day of Happiness, to recognize happiness as not only a universal goal of all human beings, but also to encourage both organizations and individuals to help increase happiness through...

 Erectile dysfunction (ED) is not just for older men. While studies show that even younger men battle the condition, most men may not be ready to talk about it.

 Dr Michael Mol and John Berry's new cookbook is aimed at the everyday family cook who has their eye on healthier meals, but that doesn't mean dessert is off the menu. Try their recipe for chocolate tartlets

 If you sign a contract that includes a clause which is not compliant with the Consumer Protection Act, does that mean that you forfeit that protection?

 Progress in reducing carbon intensity in the travel and tourism industry can be attributed to several actions, according to a new report by the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC).

 Although “no incidents involving defective inflators have been reported” Honda Motor Southern Africa on Thursday “expanded its recall campaign to replace Takata-supplied airbag inflators”.

 Plants respond a bit better to global warming than scientists had thought, according to a new study that suggests their potential contribution to worsening global warming is not likely as bad as researcher believed.

 The letter by Ziyana Lategan published in this space on Friday 18 March 2016 (An open letter to Unisa's Mandla Makhanya) cannot go unchallenged.

 All data is delayed by 15 min. Data supplied by Profile Data 
 Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.

Officials said a group of knife-wielding terrorists from the restive Xinjiang region attacked people at the Kunming railway station in China's southwest on Saturday night. More than 130 people were wounded.
Armed riot police stood guard as people streamed into the station yesterday only hours after the attack, one of the worst of its kind in China in recent memory.
A parking attendant surnamed Chen said he "saw a person with a knife this big", extending his arms wide.
"Then I saw five or six of them. They all had knives and they were stabbing people madly over near the ticket offices."
Police shot four of the attackers dead and captured one, state news agency Xinhua reported. About five others were said to be on the run.
Xinhua quoted the Kunming city government as saying evidence at the crime scene showed that the attack was carried out by Xinjiang separatists.
The attack was made at a sensitive time. The annual meeting of China's rubber-stamp parliament opens in Beijing on Wednesday.
Word of the violence spread quickly Pictures of bodies covered in blood were posted on the Twitter-like microblogging service Sina Weibo.
Such posts were deleted by government censors but state television showed police wrapping a sword-like weapon in an evidence bag.
Shop and restaurant workers said hundreds had fled into their premises.
"Last night everyone ran over into my supermarket. The supermarket was full of people, including two passengers who had been stabbed," Ren Guangqin said.
"I was terrified. How could I not be scared?" said 28-year-old Ren.
Scores of patients from the attack spilled into corridors from overflowing wards at Kunming's No1 People's Hospital . Several patients had head injuries.
"They attacked us like crazy swordsmen, and went for the head and shoulders," 20-year-old student Wu Yuheng said, lying on a hospital bed. One attacker had nicked him on the scalp
China's domestic security chief, Meng Jianzhu, vowed those responsible would be brought to justice.
The attack marked a major intensification if the simmering unrest that has centred on Xinjiang, a heavily Muslim region in China's far west strategically located on the borders of central Asia.