2014-01~03
http://www.watoday.com.au/world/strangers-in-their-own-land-is-china-forcing-uighurs-to-extremes-20140228-hvd0g.html

Strangers in their own land: is China forcing Uighurs to extremes?
The symbolic heart of political power in China, Tiananmen Square, is among the most tightly controlled and patrolled areas in Beijing. But on October 28 last year, shortly after noon, the constant police presence and surveillance was undone by a rudimentary plot.
A four-wheel drive, with numberplates registered in the far western region of Xinjiang, veered onto the footpath alongside Chang’an Avenue, the capital’s main east-to-west thoroughfare.
Ploughing into pedestrians at speed, the vehicle travelled more than 400 metres before it crashed to a halt and burst into flames, killing all three occupants right under the serene gaze of the square’s portrait of Chairman Mao.
Two tourists were killed and 40 others injured in an incident that was not just an embarrassing security lapse, but the most prominent act of protest at the square since pro-democracy student demonstrations of June 4, 1989.
The square was evacuated, armed police swarmed for days on end and internet censors moved to delete photos and discussion of the incident on social media.
After more than a day of silence, the occupants of the car were identified by police as Usmen Hasan, his wife, Gulkiz Gini, and his mother Kuwanhan Reyim.
The names were identifiably Uighur, a Turkic-speaking Muslim ethnic minority from Xinjiang, as were those of five other people police arrested in connection with the attack. Police said they had retrieved retrieved petrol canisters, knives, metal bars and a black banner bearing “religious extremist messages” in the burnt-out car wreck, and officials declared the incident a “violent terrorist act that was carefully planned and organised” by the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), an obscure group whose ability to strike within China has been questioned by analysts.
The Chinese government has invariably portrayed any resistance to its policies in Xinjiang as concerted acts of separatism, and violent clashes between Uighurs and police as terrorism motivated by Islamist extremists with overseas support.
But Uighur advocates of self-determination insist the government’s aggressive security policies and restrictions on religion have provoked violence by despairing Uighurs, armed with primitive weapons such as knives and petrol bombs.
More than 100 people have been reported killed in more than a dozen violent incidents in the region in the past year alone.
The latest incident, on February 14, saw police shoot dead eight Uighurs in Uqturpan, in Aksu prefecture, after what state media described as an attack on police by assailants armed with bombs made from gas cylinders.
Experts pinpoint July 5, 2009, as a major turning point in the struggle between Uighurs and the government. At least 197 people died in Xinjiang’s capital Urumqi after Uighur men attacked majority Han Chinese people in a series of street riots.
But the Tiananmen Square attack - right under the nose of the central government in Beijing - could prove an even more serious watershed. 
Does it set a precedent for future campaigns by Uighurs? Or has such a highly visible act - like the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests or the April 1999 sit-in by the Falun Gong movement at the government's Beijing headquarters in Zhongnanhai – guaranteed an even harsher crackdown?
It is in the villages deep in southern Xinjiang where the greatest anguish resides, largely hidden from public view.
Access is made difficult by regular police checkpoints and routine vehicle searches. While foreign reporters are ostensibly free to travel within Xinjiang, detection invariably means a lengthy police interview under the pretext of "national security".
And even with a network of surveillance cameras trained on mosques, public areas and some residential streets, locals say the government also employs informants - locals  paid to spy on their own.
“There is one guy on one street, and another on [another] street,” one local tells me. “You don’t even know they’re spies. But they will alert the government if they see a stranger walking through.”
It means those that leave, like Yusuf*, a student at a major university in Beijing, feel uneasy whenever they are back home.
“It’s personally sad for me, that this is my home but I don’t feel safe,” says the 23-year-old, who hails from a village on the outskirts of Karakash, near Hotan.
Yusuf says despite government pressure, conservative Islamic thought has been resurgent in southern Xinjiang, especially in Hotan, considered the most traditional of major Uighur cities.
Like many Uighurs, he says he doesn’t condone the violence, though he can completely understand it.
“I just think, logically, if you squeeze something really tight, it will repel,” he says.
Yusuf says his friends get angry at the tightening pressures on religious freedom, “but they don’t dare to speak out”.
One outlet that is used is WeChat, a phenomenally popular mobile messaging and social media application, where information can spread quickly and widely through group messages and popular Uighur-language blogs.
Most of the discussion is everyday culture, news and opinion, but some of it takes on a religious and political slant. The news of the January arrest of high-profile Uighur rights advocate Ilham Tohti, for example, spread like wildfire and stirred strong emotions. He was charged this week with crimes relating to separatism.
The economics professor at Minzu University in Beijing, seen in the West as a credible and moderate voice on Xinjiang issues, has consistently questioned the government’s Uighur policies, and the veracity of state media reports of terrorism in Xinjiang.  
“They call him Ilham aka, it’s like brother,” Yusuf says. “He’s the greatest person I’ve ever met, because he dares to speak the truth.”
One of the fundamental sources of tension in Xinjiang is the mismatch between what the government and Uighurs understand as religious freedom.
The Chinese government insists that it does not impede religious practice in the region, in line with the constitution. But the government mandates that “normal religious activity” can take place only within government-sanctioned organisations and registered places of worship.
Muslims worshipping independently risk being detained for conducting “illegal religious activities”. Women are told to remove headscarves in public places. Pilgrimages to Mecca are illegal if not made on government-organised trips which, while subsidised by the state, have small annual quotas which are swiftly filled.
Religious instruction is strictly forbidden outside approved government institutions, which are mainly in the regional capital Urumqi.
“A lot of young people do want to learn Islam,” one imam tells me. “But everything is controlled by the Chinese government, there’s no way to solve it.”
“After [Uighurs reach] 18 years of age, they may be able to go to the mosque, but they still cannot take religious instruction. After I die, there’s no one who can take over and be an imam.”
In Hotan, Nabir*, a security guard in his 30s with a thick moustache and a harsh crewcut of the type favoured by many Uighur men, slinks into the back of our car.
Even though we are introduced through a middleman, he wants to see my passport and press credentials, worried I work for the government.
Nabir has sent his eight-year-old son for religious training at a kanunciz orün - literally, an “illegal place”. It is a practice so fraught and secretive that he doesn’t even know where his son is, and hasn’t seen him since he sent him away three months ago.
“If police find out about them, the teachers will be in jail forever, or shot dead on the spot,” he says.
Nabir says he has heard of numerous cases where religious teachers have been caught, but that the risk was worth it.
“This is all for our religion. Our ancestors were followers of Islam. We need to hold on to this.”
Nabir says the lack of religious freedom was the root of all problems for Uighurs in Xinjiang.
“We want to abide by the law,” he says. “The people who cause trouble for the government want freedom for Islam, for themselves, but also for their wives and children and parents. This is why we have this problem.”
For Tursungul Turdi, the deepest hurt is in not knowing. Her son, Eysajan Memet, has been missing for more than four years since being detained amid the deadly ethnic riots that erupted in Urumqi in 2009.
Despite repeated pleas for information, authorities have told her nothing – not where he is, what he has done, or even whether he is still alive.
"I just want to know what he's done. If he really did something bad, fine, they can kill him," Tursungul, 72, says when we meet in her bare-walled house in a Uighur quarter of Kashgar. "But if he did nothing, why is he still detained? Why don't they just tell the truth?"
Eysajan is one of at least 40 Uighurs unaccounted for after the July 5, 2009 riots.
Family members are instructed to stop looking for their missing loved ones; those that don’t comply are routinely monitored, harassed and threatened.
At the time of his disappearance, Eysajan was a 25-year-old cook and a budding musician who, with pregnant wife in tow, had left the ancient Silk Road city of Kashgar in search of higher-paying work in Urumqi. His family says he was due to perform at a restaurant when the riots broke out.
Eysajan was last seen being taken into a military-controlled facility in Urumqi, where his wife was assured he would be released overnight after interrogation. Four years on, she is still waiting.
The lack of official transparency on violent incidents in Xinjiang has only served to intensify anger among locals, particularly when local versions of events flourish in the absence of independently verifiable facts.
State media reports on the violence in Xinjiang have taken on almost a template format, with references to “organised and premeditated” terrorist attacks, with the assailants often watching “videos from overseas showing terrorist acts”.
“[The reports] are completely unreliable. They’re incoherent, and on specific incidents they often contradict themselves,” says Nicholas Bequelin, a Xinjiang expert and researcher at Human Rights Watch. “There’s great variance with what people can observe on the ground.”
In a December 30 incident in Yarkent, police said eight knife-wielding attackers were shot dead after throwing petrol bombs at a police station.
But locals contend the attack only happened because a Muslim elder was being arbitrarily arrested and detained, with his only crime that he had not left his house for a week.
In Karakash, locals say police opened fire on a crowd, including children, that had gathered to protest after three Uighur men were shot after insisting they perform Friday prayers at their local mosque, rather than the one regulated by authorities.
And in Jigdejay, locals say religious students had gathered from nearby towns and hid in the desert simply to undertake forbidden study of the Koran, but were shot dead by police, even though they were unarmed.
Willingness to believe local versions of events passed on by word of mouth over official accounts highlights the level of distrust and antagonism in the region.
But there is also plenty of paranoia on the other side.
In Urumqi, while trying to meet a woman keen to tell us about her husband who disappeared during the July 2009 riots, we are stopped and detained by police.
Most of the questions they asked appeared to be to ascertain whether we were one of the “hostile external forces” the government says are attempting to split Xinjiang from China.
Who sent me? Was I Muslim? Why did I want to report from Xinjiang? How many times had I been to Xinjiang? Who had I met? Did I know any Uighurs from overseas? Did I know anyone that worked for the Australian government? Did I know anyone that worked for Australian intelligence agencies? Did the Australian government send me?
I was told to recite repeatedly where I lived, studied and worked from the age of six onwards.
The state's response to Xinjiang’s problems after the Urumqi riots has been one that has served well across the rest of China – breakneck economic growth.
As the Xinjiang government’s latest work report is keen to emphasise, GDP growth in Xinjiang was 11.1 per cent last year, among the best in the country.
Kashgar, an ancient city steeped in history on the edge of the Taklamakan Desert, is geographically closer to Islamabad than Beijing, and culturally at times, seems a world apart from the rest of China. Its 15th-century Id Kah mosque is the biggest in China and the Sunday market, a pivotal stop along the Silk Road 2000 years ago, still sees animated traders sealing deals with a vigorous slap and exuberant handshake.
The historic old town was used in the recent film adaptation of Khaled Hosseini’s novel The Kite Runner as a stand-in for the Afghan capital Kabul.
But the face of Kashgar is changing fast. Designated as a special economic development zone by the Chinese government in 2010, investment dollars from Shanghai to Shenzhen have poured in, sprouting five-star hotels, office blocks and medium-rise residential buildings.
Much of the old town - considered one of the best examples of a traditional Islamic town in Central Asia - has been torn down, with the government citing safety concerns in the event of an earthquake.
Kashgar’s newer areas look just like the rest of China.
“Before, it was fast assimilation but [now] it is assimilation on steroids,” Bequelin says. “That just creates more tension.”
Last month, Yu Zhengsheng, a member of China’s seven-man Politburo Standing Committee, called for stricter management of religious activities to ensure it did not “spill over into illegal acts”.
In an official training video for Communist Party cadres seen by Fairfax Media, a Xinjiang government religion expert argues there are too many mosques in the region and that no country “has achieved economic progress by developing its religion”.
“We can't extinguish religion for the moment, we respect the freedom of religion,” Ma Pinyan says in the 90-minute video.
“But that doesn't necessarily mean faith in religion is good for the nation's development. We must see the negative things that religion brings to the development of a nation.
“My heart breaks when I see gleaming mosques next to schools which are run-down and dilapidated.”
But for the devout  Uighurs of Xinjiang, hearts are breaking for a different reason: they say they are becoming strangers in their own land.
“There’s nothing people can do about it but pray to God,” Yusuf says. “Without His will, nothing happens.”
* Some names have been changed to protect the identity of those interviewed.
Get notified when the big things happen. Sign up to our newsletter.