2014-01~03
http://www.firstpost.com/world/chinese-police-launch-manhunt-to-capture-kunming-attack-terrorists-1416875.html

Chinese police launch manhunt to capture Kunming attack terrorists - Firstpost
#China   #China Terror attack   #ethnic tensions   #Kumming   #NewsTracker   #Uighur muslims   #World  
The Chinese police have launched a manhunt to capture the remaining five militants from Xinjiang who reportedly fled after taking part in the deadly knife attacks at a railway station in Kunming city in which 33 people were killed and 143 others injured.
Four of the attackers were killed, while one woman militant who was injured was captured after the incident yesterday.
A search is on for the other militants, stated to be from the banned separatist East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), an al-Qaeda-backed outfit. ETIM, is active in the northwestern Xinjiang province which has witnessed deep ethnic unrest between native Muslim Uighurs and Han settlers from mainland China in recent years.
The Kunming municipal government said that evidence at the crime scene showed that the Kunming station attack wasorchestrated by separatist forces from Xinjiang. No further details have been disclosed. Thirty-three people including four militants were killed in the attacks and 143 injured, of which 33 are in a critical condition. A group of 10 attackers hailing from Xinjiang attacked the crowed with large knives hacking people indiscriminately, Chinese security officials said.
The attack lasted about 25 minutes after which the remaining militants escaped.
Meanwhile, a semblance of normalcy has returned to Kunming city after the gruesome knife attacks. Order has been restored in Kunming, capital of southwest China's Yunnan Province, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.
At the train station where the attacks happened, train arrivals resumed yesterday after three trains were disrupted. Part of a major road in front of the railway station is still under traffic control and the waiting area on a square east of the station has been cordoned off.
With a heavy police presence, normal operations have resumed with no new restrictions.
Security screening of passengers and luggage is being carried out and staff are maintaining order in more crowded areas.
Security has been beefed up at the city's Changshui International Airport, with increased security personnel and tougher scrutiny of passengers and luggage.
Gunmen attack EU military training base in Mali capital | Reuters
Greece asks EU partners for help to make migrant deal work | Reuters
Trump woos Washington Republicans, draws fire from Clinton | Reuters
Obama spars with Castro on human rights during historic Cuba visit | Reuters
Harish Rawat slams BJP for murdering democracy in Uttarakhand: Vijayvargiya takes up issue with Pranab
Having lost his girlfriend to US-based Indian groom, Chennai man to do ferocious online campaign in support of Donald Trump
Never allowed David Headley to set foot on Pakistan soil, always rolled out Red carpet for him: Nawaz Sharif
ISIS to offer ESOPs to its fighters to counter rising attrition rate
Pakistan felicitates Hafiz Saeed for inspirational leadership after David Headley said Hafiz Saeed inspired him
Feel good factor revived, Achche Din look real after Donald Trump says, “India is doing great”
ISIS in favor of chess ban, asks supporters to play ‘offline CounterStrike’ instead