2014-01~03
http://daily.bhaskar.com/article/WOR-missing-malaysian-airlines-live-updates-over-72-hours-gone-but-no-sign-of-the-il-4546796-NOR.html

Missing Malaysian Airlines LIVE Updates: Over 72 hours gone, but no sign of the ill-fated plane - daily.bhaskar.com
It Is hard to believe that in today's world where everything and virtually anyone could be accessed or tracked with the click of a mouse or a few buttons, a commercial plane as big as a Boeing disappeared from the radar on Saturday and still remains untraceable. While initial rescue operation reports suggested that the flight may have crashed into the sea and the wreckage is found, things dramatically changed on Sunday when Malaysian authorities claimed they are still to find any sign of the ill-fated Malaysian airline with 239 passengers aboard.
4:35 PM: Malaysian military believes it tracked missing jet MH370 by radar over the Strait of Malacca, reports Reuters.
2:30 PM: Authorities release images of both men who boarded Malaysian Airlines flight on stolen passports. 
2:00 PM: 'We know who one of the men on stolen passports on vanished plane was - and we don't think he is a terrorist': Malaysian police say he was Iranian asylum seeker, 19, on way to Europe
1:00 PM: Unconfirmed reports emerge - A previously-unknown group calling itself the Chinese Martyr's Brigade has reportedly claimed responsibility for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370. However, officials have said the claim could be a hoax.
According to media reports - A terrorist group, the Chinese Martyrs' Brigade, claimed responsibility for the missing Malaysian flight MH370 through sending a PDF statement to media outlets. The group claimed that the terrorist act was way of pay back. "You kill one of our clan, we will kill 100 of you as payback," the statement said. The PDF file was also sent using encrypted Hushmail anonymous remailer service which cannot be replied and traced.
The statement also expressed regret in killing all the passengers of the missing flight, saying that they only wanted to kill the 153 Chinese passengers. "We wished 100% of the flight was all Chinese people," the statement said. The group threatened to commit another attack until the Chinese government changed its national policy on human rights and stops oppression of ethnic minorities.
12:15 PM: Malaysia Airlines has released a statement as the search for missing Flight MH370 enters a fourth day.
It said: "The search and rescue teams (SAR) have expanded the scope beyond the flight path to the West Peninsular of Malaysia at the Straits of Malacca. The authorities are looking at a possibility of an attempt made by MH370 to turn back to Subang. All angles are being looked at. We are not ruling out any possibilities. The mission is aided by various countries namely Australia, China, Thailand, Indonesia, Singapore, Vietnam, Philippines and the United States of America. The assets deployed to cover the search and rescue is extensive."
11:30 AM: China has urged Malaysia to "step up its efforts" in the search for the Malaysia Airlines passenger plane that disappeared on Saturday, quotes BBC
11:00 AM: Must Read -  Revealed: Untold facts about missing Malaysian Airlines flight MH370
10:50 AM: Some media reports claim, the tickets of the two men traveling with fake passports on Malaysia Airlines flight MH 370 were purchased by an Iranian man in Tehran.
10:45 AM: Also Read:  Malaysian Airlines jet still missing; here's why it can't be traced
10:40 AM: According to reports, possibility that militants may have been involved in disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 isn't being ruled out by Malaysia's Special Branch or the agencies in the United States
10:15 AM:  Malaysia Airlines: Inspection of aircraft 10 days before it went missing,  found nothing amiss.
10:00 AM: Beijing is deploying as many as 10 satellites in hopes of tracking down Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, Chinese media reported.
9:45 AM: Reports claim the search area for a missing jetliner has expanded with Malaysian Airlines saying the western coast of the country is now the focus of the hunt.
9:30 AM: Fingerprints and photos of two men who boarded the doomed Malaysia Airlines passenger jet are being sent to U.S. authorities so they can be compared against records of known terrorists and criminals
9:15 AM:  Rescue helicopters and ships rushed to investigate a yellow object that looked like a life raft. It turned out to be moss-covered trash floating in the ocean, once again dashing hopes.
9:00 AM:  For three days, relatives awaiting word on the vanished Malaysia Airlines jet have endured a cruel roller coaster of emotions. First came the shock. Then, with each development that has emerged, they have careened between hope and despair.