2014-01~03
http://www.dw.de/chinese-authorities-blame-uighur-separatists-for-knife-bloodbath/a-17467547?maca=en-rss-en-top-1022-xml-atom

Chinese authorities blame Uighur separatists for knife bloodbath | News | DW.COM | 02.03.2014

Chinese authorities have blamed Uighur separatists for the bloodbath at a train station in southwestern Yunnan province. The assault by knife-wielding assailants left more than two dozen people dead.


Uighur separatists from the restive province of Xinjiang were responsible for the mass stabbing at a train station in Yunnan province on Saturday, according to China's Xinhua state news agency.

At least 10 knife-wielding assailants clad in black randomly attacked pedestrians at the train station in the city of Kunming. At least 33 people died and another 130 people were injured in the attack. Police shot dead four of the assailants and detained another. Five other culprits are on the run, according to state media.

"Evidence at the crime scene showed that the Kunming railway station terrorist attack was carried out by Xinjiang separatist forces," Xinhua reported.

Chinese President Xi Jinping has called for "all-out efforts" to bring the culprits to justice "in accordance with the law."

The country's domestic security chief, Meng Jianzhu, has been dispatched to the scene to oversee the handling of the case, according to the state television broadcaster CCTV.

The western province of Xinjiang, located 1,000 kilometers away from the scene of Saturday's attack in Yunnan, has a long history of unrest. Uighur Muslims native to Xinjiang accuse Beijing of restricting their religious and cultural practices.

Knife and bomb attacks against government officials are known to occur sporadically in Xinjiang. But violence related to the Uighur community's political situation typically does not occur outside of their native province.

In one high-profile incident last October, three Uighur family members 
set fire to their car in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, killing themselves and two bystanders.
Police are seeking two suspects in connection with a fatal car crash at China’s Tiananmen Square. But authorities have not said whether the crash was an accident or a premeditated attack. (29.10.2013)
  

Four people have been sentenced on charges of terrorism in China after a knife attack that left dozens dead and injured. Beijing has blamed tension and violence in its restive Xinjiang region on increasing Islamism.
A strong earthquake has hit China's far western region of Xinjiang, killing and injuring several people, Chinese officials say. The region has a mainly ethnic Uighur population.
Chinese authorities have reportedly ordered Muslim shopkeepers in a Xinjiang village to sell alcohol and cigarettes in a bid to undermine Islam's hold on local residents. But will this work? DW speaks to James Millward.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
