2014-01~03
http://www.independent.ie/world-news/asia-pacific/theories-everyone-from-the-taliban-to-ethnic-uighurs-being-blamed-30100547.html

Theories: Everyone from the Taliban to ethnic Uighurs being blamed - Independent.ie

FLIGHT MH370 has now been missing for more than 10 days and, while facts about what has happened to the Malaysia Airlines flight are in short supply, theories are not.

Could the Boeing 777 have landed somewhere, was it hijacked by remote control or did one of the pilots use it as part of a one-man political protest or suicide?
Each sounds outlandish but the truth – whenever it finally comes to light – could be equally strange. Investigators seem increasingly certain it was flown off course by someone with expert knowledge of Boeing 777s.
Satellite data indicate it could have travelled in two possible directions, either to the south across the Indian Ocean or to the north, perhaps as far as Kazakhstan.
After that comes speculation, not helped by contradictory accounts given by official bodies.
The uncertainty and possible locations to which the plane could have flown provide fertile ground for conspiracy theorists. The theory that the plane could have landed has also given relatives of passengers and crew renewed hope.
Journalists have found there may be as many as 634 runways of sufficient length within a 2,200-nautical-mile radius where MH370 could have landed.
Perhaps inspired by tweets from Rupert Murdoch, the media mogul, several news organisations reported claims that Pakistan might have been the final destination.
After all, Taliban and al-Qa'ida groups control swathes of territory along the country's border with Afghanistan. The September 11 plot to hijack American airliners was hatched in this part of the world. But to get there, Flight MH370 would have had to evade military radar set up to spot an attack from India.
Malaysian media suggest investigators are considering the possibility that the plane might have dropped as low as 5,000 feet to escape detection. That would require some serious flying skills known as "terrain masking", more usually employed by military pilots. At that time in the morning, it might have been invisible to radar, but it surely would have alerted people beneath its flight path.
Another possibility is that the plane hid in the radar shadow of another.
Keith Ledgerwood, who describes himself as an IT professional and pilot, suggests on his blog that MH370's last known manoeuvres indicate that it may have been trying to follow a Singapore Airlines 777 from the Bay of Bengal across India, Pakistan and Afghanistan.
Even if any of this were true, where is the plane now?
North-west Pakistan and south-eastern Afghanistan might be under the control of militants, but hiding a wide-bodied jet from American spy drones buzzing overhead would be all but impossible.
Militants there have denied taking it. Kazakhstan, India and Pakistan have dismissed the idea that it could have flown through their airspace without anyone noticing.
Another possibility might be Kyrgyzstan. It borders western China's troubled Xinjiang province, where an ethnic Uighur population wages a separatist struggle.
A planeload of largely Chinese passengers might have made a tempting target and at least one Uighur group tried to claim responsibility.
All of which leaves us sifting through countless what-ifs and the suspicion that our desperate desire to know how a passenger jet can disappear into thin air has overtaken our demand for evidence. (© Daily Telegraph, London)
Jonathan Pearlman in Sydney Malcolm Turnbull, Australia's prime minister, has recalled parliament and threatened to call an early general election - most likely for July 2 - saying "the time for playing games is over".
Elephants have killed five people in two separate attacks in eastern India, an official said.
Debris found earlier this month off the southeast African coast which some believe could be from a missing Malaysia Airlines flight has arrived in Australia for testing, officials said today, two years after the plane disappeared.

'It had all the attributes of 'a win, is a win, is a win''

Several bomb attacks have thrown the spotlight on security in Turkey. Here...

Taoiseach Enda Kenny has told the numbers dead in Brussels are...

The Brussels attacks would have taken "quite a while" to plan...

Dublin MEP Brian Hayes was on the Brussels Metro this morning...

At least 17 Hindus have died after consuming illegally-made alcohol during religious celebrations in...

An armed British ship believed to be carrying enough plutonium...

Burma's president-elect has proposed an 18-member Cabinet which will include party leader...

At least 13 people have been killed and many others injured in a...

Luke Mac An Bháird, a Galway man who was in Brussels Zavantem Airport on Tuesday morning...

At least 21 people have been killed and many others injured in a...

Foreign secretary Philip Hammond says Britain is in contact with...

Footage courtsey of Jef Versele shows debris inside the Brussels...

US President Barack Obama shakes hand with Cuban President Raul Castro in Havana during the US...

An elephant has killed a man in West Bengal, India. The incident captured on a smartphone...

Footage released by ESA shows astronauts Tim Peake and Scott Kelly zapping aliens as part of...