2014-01~03
http://www.freep.com/usatoday/article/4262395

Detroit Free Press - Home
Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device.
Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?
Subscribe today for full access on your desktop, tablet, and mobile device.
A toast to Bell's Brewery as Oberon summer beer is out
Obama addresses Cuban people, both on the island and in the U.S.
How to watch tonight's Detroit Red Wings-Tampa Bay Lightning game
Jamie Samuelsen: Loss hurts, but don't bet against Tom Izzo
Ex-Piston Darko Milicic is apparently living on a farm now
USA TODAY Sports' Nicole Auerbach breaks down the top players to watch during the Sweet 16.
In his will, a church usher donated his entire estate to the church he served for years. What the church wasn't expecting was what was inside his home.
Donald Trump's sister got a threatening letter in the mail a day after his son received a letter with suspicious white powder inside.
A study from Florida State University is finding that people who have lower expectations from their marriages will be the happiest. Patrick Jones (@Patrick_E_Jones) explains.
Donald Trump's sister got a threatening letter in the mail a day after his son received a letter with suspicious white powder inside.
Britney Spears is enjoying a five week break from her Las vegas residency at Planet Hollywood and posted a picture of herself, wearing a tiny yellow bikini. Some are accusing her of using Photoshop. Sean Dowling (@seandowlingtv) has more.
A study from Florida State University is finding that people who have lower expectations from their marriages will be the happiest. Patrick Jones (@Patrick_E_Jones) explains.
After making just six field goals in the entire first half, Texas A&M made six field goals in the final 34 seconds of regulation Sunday night against Northern Iowa, erasing a 12-point defecit, forcing overtime, and eventually winning.
A Florida woman is battling with the state over her pet alligator, Rambo. The state has rules about the space pet gators need but apparently Rambo doesn't like the outside. Patrick Jones (@Patrick_E_Jones) explains.
The woman got quite the reaction when she revealed the messages written across her back and chest at Bernie Sanders' rally in Phoenix.
Luna was on a fishing boat with her owner when she disappeared into the ocean. Then weeks later, she was found alive thanks to the U.S. Navy.Video provided by Newsy
Researchers in Norway say explosions in the ocean's floor may have caused ships to sink in the Bermuda Triangle.Video provided by Newsy
Deal expert Matt Granite has found a website that will hunt down the best buyback offers for you.
Violence erupted at a Donald Trump rally held in Tucson, Arizona as a protester was punched and kicked by a Trump supported while he was being escorted out of the rally.
UFC Bantamweight Champion Miesha Tate got back at a Las Vegas police officer who checked out her butt during UFC 196 weigh-ins over the weekend.
Two bald eagles named "Mr. President" and "The First Lady" at the National Arboretum are now parents of an eaglet hatched on Thursday.
Airbnb's expansion into Cuba is about to get bigger. Thanks to improving relations between Cuba and the U.S., Airbnb has received authorization to expand its Cuba operations to include non-U.S. travelers.
New research shows your dog can actually read your mind. It goes beyond them knowing it's time to eat or go on a walk before giving a verbal command. They know how you feel about others. Buzz60s Sean Dowling has details.
When Diana realized her twin brother's best friend Ketchel didn't have plans to go to prom, she hatched a plan that led to this very memorable 'promposal.'
The second eaglet of bald eagle pair named "Mr. President" and "The First Lady" has hatched at the National Arboretum in Washington, DC.
A contest to pick a name for a new research ship has gone overboard as the No. 1-voted name is Boaty McBoatface. Video provided by Newsy
After winning the 3A Minnesota state basketball title, one player took a good look at the reporter interviewing his coach.
Mickey Deputy has been a fighter since the day she was born with three holes in her heart. At age 7, she fought and eventually beat leukemia. Now, this teen with Down syndrome is competing in a pageant and running on the platform of inclusion.
Douglas McIntyre of 24/7 Wall Street takes a look at the seven states where there is no tax on income.
A coroner said it'll take more than a week to determine the victim's age and gender.Video provided by Newsy
A grandfather cooks for his grandkids but only one shows up. She posts a picture on Twitter and has the whole world calling their grandparents. Keleigh Nealon (@keleighnealon) has the story!
A baby is safe thanks to a store clerk who saw a mother in distress. The clerk grabbed the woman's baby seconds before she started seizing. The mother and baby are reported to be okay.

 
 © 2016
 
 
 www.freep.com. All rights reserved.
 
