2014-01~03
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/jan/16/chinese-police-uighur-academic-ilham-tohti

Chinese police detain leading Uighur academic Ilham Tohti | World news | The Guardian


Thursday 16 January 2014 06.20 EST


Last modified on Friday 15 January 2016 21.16 EST


Chinese police have detained a leading Uighur academic, the foreign ministry said on Thursday.
The comments came a day after his wife told friends that Ilham Tohti had been taken from their home in Beijing.
Tohti is well known for questioning government policies in Xinjiang, where the Uighur ethnic minority makes up almost half the population. The government has been seeking to tighten control over the north-western region after the deaths of scores of people in violent unrest over the last year.
Beijing says it has poured money into development and respects local identity, but many Uighurs resent cultural and religious restrictions and complain they are economically marginalised. Some call for an independent state.
Asked about the case at a daily news briefing, foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters: "Ilham is suspected of breaking the law.
"The public security organs have detained him in accordance with the law. The relevant departments will now deal with him in accordance with the law."
Tohti is an economist at the Central University for Nationalities in Beijing. His wife, Guzailai Nu'er, told Reuters that around 30 police from Xinjiang and Beijing seized the scholar from their apartment on Wednesday and confiscated his computer and books.
"I trust my husband. He didn't do anything unlawful," she said in a telephone interview from their home, which was guarded by police.
"All he has done is write detailed articles researching the population in Xinjiang. There's nothing else to it."
Hours before his detention, Tohti wrote in a post on his mobile social media account: "The Uighur people have become outsiders in the development of their own homeland and survival.
"It is here that the people's anger begins to grow. Uighur people need an avenue to express their aspirations and protect their rights."
Tsering Woeser, a prominent Tibetan writer and friend, told Reuters that Tohti said last week he had heard Xinjiang authorities tell Beijing police that they wanted to arrest him, but later heard that Beijing had not approved the move.
"At that time, he said that he felt he was in a very dangerous position," Woeser said.
Two Tohti's students told AP that they and around half a dozen other Uighur students had been questioned by police.
Huang Zhangjin, a friend of the scholar, added: "It seems like this action had been planned for a long time, because many of his students had been questioned recently about Ilham, not only about what he teaches but about whether he tries to influence them.
Nicholas Bequelin, senior Asia researcher at Human Rights Watch, said that in the past Tohti had been somewhat protected by his status, as the best known commentator on Uighur issues.
But he added: "I think the outlook is pretty much set now … I think it means he is going to jail.
"There was increasing pressure on him and he touched on very, very sensitive issues by challenging official accounts of incidents both in Xinjiang and Tiananmen."
Bequelin said Tohti could face charges of inciting separatism, an offence that can carry a life sentence.
"Tohti himself is clearly not a separatist. His position has always been to try to advise the central government of Beijing to look at the actual situation in an objective, non-politicised way … He is not a political figure or activist," he added.
The news that Tohti had been seized by police first emerged on Uighurbiz.net, a website he helped to create but which is hosted overseas. It has since become inaccessible, apparently because of a cyberattack.
Three years ago, China jailed a Uighurbiz.net writer for 15 years for endangering state security. Gheyrat Niyaz had spoken to foreign journalists and posted critical articles online following the ethnic violence that killed almost 200 people in Urumqi, Xinjiang's capital, in 2009.
Earlier this month the state-run Global Times newspaper suggested that Chinese president Xi Jinping had signalled a strategic shift to focus on stability rather than development in the region, in a speech which has not been published.
Eleven sentenced, including one to six years in prison, for allegedly preaching holy war and promoting racial hatred