2015-07~07
http://news.asiaone.com/news/asia/who-carried-out-bangkoks-deadly-bombing

Who carried out Bangkok's deadly bombing? , AsiaOne Asia News
Still image from closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage released by Thai police shows what they believe to be two new suspects - dressed in red (C) and dressed in white (3rd R) - standing in front of previously identified supect in yellow t-shirt removing his backpack prior to a bomb blast in Bangkok, made available August 19, 2015.
BANGKOK - Confusion swirls around who carried out Bangkok's deadly bombing. But experts say the unprecedented scale of Monday's attack and apparent targeting of tourists could indicate a game-changing escalation of tactics for the country's usual suspects - or an entirely new threat.





 

Here is what we know so far about investigations into the blast, which killed 20 people and wounded more than 100 at a crowded Hindu shrine in the Thai capital.
Thai police say a man believed to be a foreigner planted the bomb, he was part of a network of more than 10 people, and that Interpol will be asked for help in gathering information from abroad.
But a spokesman for Thailand's ruling junta said separately that global terror organisations were not suspected, adding to days of sometimes contradictory information from authorities.
Police suspect a dark-haired man in a yellow shirt who is seen in grainy security footage casually walking into the shrine and leaving a backpack believed to contain the bomb under a bench.
Authorities are looking for two other men seen standing in front of the main suspect, possible to shield him, as he planted the bag.
The yellow-shirted man is seen leaving the shrine while looking at his smartphone, then leaving on a motorcycle taxi, police said.
A sketch portrayed him with dark-rimmed glasses, a full head of dark hair. Police described the man as tall and fair-skinned.
Authorities say he was overheard speaking a "foreign language, not English." Ethnicity, however, is difficult to determine from the sketch or the footage.
When asked about his ethnicity, police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri used a Thai phrase to describe light-skinned Muslims from South Asia, Central Asia and the Middle East.
But various senior Thai security figures have repeatedly given contradictory information about the suspect, with some also saying he may be European, or part-Thai.
Two prime suspects in the Erawan Shrine bomb attack that killed 20 and injured more than 100 people re-enacted the crime at 19 key spots in Bangkok.
Adem Karadag, or Bilal Muhammed, who was the first suspect arrested in connection with the August 17 attack in an apartment in Min Buri
and Mieraili Yusufu, the second suspect arrested at the beginning of this month near the Cambodia border at Sa Kaew's Aranyaprathet district,
were taken to re-enact the crime at key spots where they confessed to committing the crime
Adem's confession was in line with Mieraili's confession and Adem's statements also implicated others in the bombing gang.
Adem started the re-enactment outside the Grand Hyatt Erawan Hotel where he allegedly got off a tuk-tuk; the second spot was at the Erawan Shrine where Adem placed a bag containing the bomb.
Mieraili was brought to Rama I Road, opposite the Erawan Shrine.
National police chief General Somyot Poompanmuang said the suspects had confessed because they were confronted with evidence.
He said the motive for the bombing was the crackdown on human trafficking, which put an end to the illegal business.
The suspects were part of the human-trafficking ring and might have been hired by an ill-intentioned group to commit the crime.
A foreign man described as a "main suspect" in the deadly Bangkok bombing was arrested, with Thai police calling him an important figure in the network that staged the attack.
The man detained near the border with Cambodia is the second foreigner held over the blast at a religious shrine in central Bangkok which killed 20 people, mostly ethnic Chinese tourists.
Police also said arrest warrants have been issued for three fresh suspects still at large, two of whom have names which appear foreign.
A picture of an unnamed foreign man wanted for questioning after bomb making materials were found in a Bangkok apartment he allegedly rented
A picture of Wanna Suansan, 26, wanted for questioning after bomb making materials were found in a Bangkok apartment she allegedly rented
Nuts and bolts found during a search of a property in the Min Buri distric
Items found during a search of a property in the Min Buri distric
Police probing Thailand's deadliest bombing widened their net in the search for more suspects
after a foreigner was arrested and stacks of fake passports and bomb-making materials were found during a raid on a Bangkok apartment block.
The 28-year-old man, who has been in Thailand since January 2014, was detained on charges of possessing illegal explosives.
Police and residents in Bangkok's Nong Chok district said the suspect rented four apartments on the same floor of the rundown building.
The detained man was reclusive but always appeared focused and walked with intent on his rare forays outside.
Police arrested a foreign man on Saturday they said fitted the description of a suspect seen leaving a rucksack at the site of the Bangkok blast nearly two weeks ago.
Police raided an apartment in a northern suburb of the capital on Saturday afternoon and discovered possible bomb-making materials that could have been used in the Aug. 17 attack in Bangkok's bustling commercial heart.
Police say the suspect is ‘unlikely’ international terrorist, but spurred by ‘personal feud’.
Thai monks led prayers Wednesday for the reopening of Bangkok shrine where a blast killed 20 people, as police hunted a man shown on security footage calmly planting what is believed to be the bomb.
The bomb struck early on Monday evening as worshippers and tourists crowded into the Erawan shrine in the Thai capital's commercial heart, but no-one has yet claimed responsibility.
The unprecedented attack on the Thai capital left at least 11 foreigners dead, with Chinese, Hong Kong, Singaporean, Indonesian and a family from Malaysia among the victims.
More than 100 other people were wounded by a blast that shredded bodies and incinerated motorcycles at one of the city's busiest intersections.
Police said a second explosion at a Bangkok pier on Tuesday that caused no injuries may be linked, deepening fears for Bangkok residents with police conceding they do not know who was responsible.
Around a dozen Buddhist monks led prayers at the Erawan shrine as it re-opened early Wednesday while devotees - including tourists - genuflected and held joss sticks, and AFP reporter said.
A relative of the dead Malaysians had laid bundles of clothes at the shrine to represent the lost loved ones, according to a monk.
The shrine - a popular tourist attraction that typifies the kingdom's unusual blend of Hindu and Buddhist traditions - and its surrounding had already been largely restored.
Twisted iron railings were the only immediate sign of the carnage, which police believe was caused by a bomb made up of three kilogrammes of explosives and ball bearings.
One devotee had more reason than most to give thanks.
Tommy Goh, 56, a Thai-Malaysian from Penang, said only a delayed taxi from his hotel spared him from being at the shrine around the time of the blast.
"Every year I come down to this shrine, we were meant to be here around 6.50-7pm but the taxi didn't arrive from the hotel... so we went somewhere else," he told AFP.
"Ten minutes later and it could have been so different." Police released images Tuesday showing a man, apparently young, slightly built and wearing a yellow T-shirt and dark shorts, walking into the shrine with a backpack.
In the video he calmly places the backpack underneath a bench and then walks away clutching a blue plastic bag and what looks like a smartphone.
The bomb exploded several minutes later, leading Thailand police to make the man their prime suspect.
A small explosion on Tuesday by a bridge at the city's Chaopraya river has been tied to Monday's bomb.
Colonel Kamthorn Ouicharoen, of Thai bomb squad police confirmed the bridge bomb was same type as that detonated at the Erawan Shrine "It's exactly the same, the equipment used to make it, the bomb size," he said.
Thailand has experienced a near-decade long political crisis that has seen endless rounds of street violence.
A festering insurgency by Muslim rebels in the Thai south has claimed 6,400 victims, but is a highly localised conflict.
A small explosive was thrown from a bridge over the Chao Phraya River in central Bangkok on Tuesday, but no injuries were reported.
The unidentified man threw the explosive near the busy Sathorn Pier on the city’s Chao Phraya River and it landed in a canal.
The incident came a day after a fatal bomb blast at a city shrine.
CCTV footage shows people scattering as they cross the bridge.
The man was filmed on CCTV near the Erewan shrine.
He was first wearing a backpack, and later appeared without it.
The bomb was reportedly planted inside the Erawan shrine, which is situated just at the corner of the Ratchaprasong intersection and in front of the Grand Hyatt Erawan Bangkok hotel, an area that many tourists would be familiar with.
A Singaporean woman was killed in the bomb blast that rocked Bangkok's Ratchaprasong area on Monday night, reported local media.
According to a statement released by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, some Singaporeans were injured in the incident.

MFA said its embassy staff are providing consular assistance to affected Singaporeans.
Dozens of tourists were injured in the bombing, which appeared to have been targeted at foreigners.
MFA urged Singaporeans in Bangkok to take necessary safety precautions, avoid the vicinity of the explosion and to monitor the local news closely
A video has emerged online of a Chinese tourist's first-hand experience of the bomb that exploded at one of Bangkok's most popular shrines on Monday.
Posted on Shanghaiist's Facebook page, the video initially shows a regular scene of pedestrians walking on the sky bridge.
Then, at the 25th second, there is a sudden loud explosion that rocks the place and balls of fire could be seen.
Screams could be heard in the background and scenes of panic could be seen from the footage.
The male tourist shooting the video could be heard speaking in Mandarin, asking: "What's the situation?"
The bomb was detonated at about 7pm (8pm, Singapore time) in the middle of the city's rush hour, sending a fireball into the sky as commuters and tourists fled in panic.
The bomb was reportedly planted inside the Erawan shrine, which is situated just at the corner of the Ratchaprasong intersection and in front of the Grand Hyatt Erawan Bangkok hotel, an area that many tourists would be familiar with.
The Erawan is an enormously popular shrine to the Hindu god Brahma but is visited by thousands of Buddhist devotees every day.
It is a major attraction for tourists from East Asia, especially China. Built in 1956, it is one of the Thai capital's top tourist attractions.
National police chief Somyot Poompanmuang told reporters the attack was unprecedented in Thailand.
A bomb on a motorcycle exploded on Monday just outside a Hindu shrine in the centre of the Thai capital, killing at least 12 people, police and a rescue worker said.
The blast was near the Erawan shrine at a major Bangkok intersection, police said.
"All I can say now is there has been an explosion in central Bangkok involving a motorcycle bomb," deputy national police chief Aek Angsananond told Reuters.
He said there had been fatalities, but could not confirm details.
A policeman at the scene and a rescue worker said 12 people had been killed.
A Reuters witness at the scene said she saw pieces of human flesh near the blast site, and a soldier later told onlookers to move back, saying they were checking for a second bomb.
Thai forces are fighting a low-level Muslim insurgency in the predominantly Buddhist country's south, although those rebels have rarely launched attacks outside their ethnic Malay heartland.
The country has also been riven for a decade by intense and sometimes violent rivalry between political factions in Bangkok and elsewhere.
The army has ruled Thailand since May 2014, when it ousted an elected government after months of, at times, violent anti-government protests.
The Erawan shrine, on a busy corner near top hotels, shopping centres and offices, is a major tourist attraction, especially for visitors from East Asia.
This file photo taken on September 9, 1999 shows tourists paying homage to the Erawan Shrine in central Bangkok.
Thai police have said the bomb was made of 5kg of TNT explosive.
A source said the bomb was hidden under a roadside bench in front of the Erawan shrine.
The explosion had a radius of 40 metres, the source added.
Nation TV reported that the death toll rose to 15.
The Red Cross Society issued an urgent plea for the people to donate blood Tuesday as a lot of blood supplies are needed for the victims of the explosion.
None of Thailand's militant or political actors have ever carried out such a brazen, apparently well-planned, and deadly attack before, puzzling experts and raising concern of a new and dangerous paradigm.
"Whatever the identity or motive of the perpetrators, the reality is that a threshold has been crossed, and Thai politics and society will likely take a radically different course in the months, and possibly years, to come," anti-terror expert Joseph Liow of the Brookings Institution wrote in an essay.
Bangkok has endured a decade of deadly political violence related to the power struggle between the military - backed by the capital's middle class and elite - and a rural and urban poor loyal to ousted populist former premiers Yingluck and Thaksin Shinawatra.
But experts say neither side had much to gain by launching a bloody attack on innocents at a shrine revered by Thais.
"It is inconceivable to me that any Thai political group, however extreme, would pull off a job like this," said Anthony Davis, a security analyst with IHS Jane's.
Rebels are waging a longtime, deadly insurgency for greater autonomy in southern Thailand's three Muslim-majority states bordering Malaysia.
Despite regular bombings there, experts say a massive attack in Bangkok doesn't fit the modus operandi of rebel groups long content to fight the battle close to home, and who generally target Thai police.
Recent peace contacts, however, have not led to full talks with a Thai military viewed by rebels with suspicion.
Frustration could be rising in younger militants, said terrorism analyst Rohan Gunaratna.
"If it was people from the south of Thailand, that means the landscape has changed dramatically because it would mean the conflict expanded from the south," Gunaratna said, but he added that so far nothing indicated involvement from the insurgents.
With his left arm still bearing burn scars and his right foot in a bandage, Mr Ng Su Teck came out of hospital yesterday morning to bid a final farewell to his wife, Ms Melisa Liu Rui Chun.
Limping towards the hearse carrying her coffin, Mr Ng, 35, gently placed his hand with his silver wedding band on it as her family members prepared to leave for a private church funeral at about 11am.
Moments later, he became distraught and had to be consoled by close friends.
Ms Liu, 34, an employee at AXA Singapore, was killed on the spot in the deadly bomb explosion at the popular Erawan Shrine in central Bangkok last Monday evening.
Mr Ng sustained burns and was cut by glass shards on his right leg. His hearing was also affected.
The final rites for Ms Liu began at around 10am, when family members, led by a Catholic priest, gathered to sing hymns.
Ms Eleena Chew, 34, a close friend of Ms Liu's for more than 20 years, described her as "easy-going, always cheerful and rarely had a temper".
Mr Ng Su Teck with his wife, Ms Melisa Liu.
Lim Jian Han looking at the coffins of his father and sister at his home in Butterworth.
Bangkok Erawan Shrine bombing survivor Neoh Ee Ling, who is five months' pregnant, could not bring herself to be present for the arrival of the bodies of her husband and daughter.
She was still distraught following the deaths of her husband, daughter, mother and brother.
Her son, Lee Jian Han, was still confused and puzzled about was going on around him, and family members say they have tried to distract him when he asked for his father and sister.

Mr Ng Su Teck, whose wife Melisa Liu Rui Chun was killed in the blast, in hospital in Bangkok.
It is a yearly affair for the Ong siblings to visit Bangkok and offer their prayers at the downtown Erawan shrine.
Ms Betty Ong, 69, a semi-retired administrative executive, was there with her sister Jane, 59, brother Wesley, 53, and his wife Jennifer, 41.
Ms Ong said there were two blasts, the second very loud. All four suffered partial hearing loss.
"We are very lucky to be alive," said Ms Ong, who needed six stitches on her left thigh and has since been discharged.
Her siblings' injuries were more serious. Her sister Jane needed two operations, one to remove shrapnel in her leg and another last night to remove the fragments in her forehead.
The younger Ms Ong became emotional when she recalled the traumatic event: "There was this blinding light and the next moment when I opened my eyes, my spectacles had been blown off by the impact. I felt as if my skin was burning off."
"I try to be positive but the images keep coming back to me. There were so many dead bodies. It's a very cruel thing. Very inhuman thing to do."
The Singapore Embassy has engaged an interpreter to assist the Ongs at the hospital.
Madam Ong said that the Thais had been very helpful, and the family even received a visit from Thai PM Prayuth Chan-ocha, who gave them 5,000 baht (S$297) each to tide them over.
It was a solemn ceremony as the bodies of two victims killed in the Bangkok bomb blast returned home.
The bodies of Lee Tze Siang, 35, and his four-year-old daughter, Lee Jing Xuan, arrived at their home in Butterworth, Penang.
The two bodies arrived in separate white vans at about 1.50pm.
Present at the house when the caskets arrived was Tze Siang's six-year-old son, Lee Jian Han.
Close friends and family members, including Tze Siang's father Lee Tiang Heng, 61, were also there.
When six-year-old Lee Jian Han saw a photograph of his father on the evening news, he had repeatedly asked his grandpa­rents why he was on TV.
The family from Taman Dedap, Butterworth, had been on holiday in Bangkok when the bombing occurred. 5 members of the family died.
It was a sombre homecoming for Neoh Ee Ling, who had arrived here on a holiday in a joyful mood but returned home under tragic circumstances.
The 33-year-old flew home with the remains of four family members killed in Monday’s deadly bombing at the Erawan shrine.
A family member of Neoh Hock Guan, a survivor of Monday's blast in Bangkok, pays her last respects to his wife and son who were killed in the attack.
Neo Ee Ling and her father, Neoh Hock Guan, 55, sustained minor injuries in the blast.
Four Malaysians have been confirmed as casualties of the incident, while a fifth, Lim Su See, is believed killed.
The bomb went off near the Erawan Shrine in Bangkok, killing 20 people and injuring more than 120.
Deputy Foreign Affairs Minister Datuk Seri Reezal Merican Naina Merican who visited the fa­­mily said Malaysia strongly criticised the bombing.
Family members of Neoh Hock Guan, a survivor of Monday's blast in Bangkok, look at the coffins of his wife and son who were killed in the attack.
Some Thai media outlets have suggested the involvement of militants from China's Muslim ethnic Uighur minority or their co-religious sympathisers, after Thailand last month forcibly repatriated more than 100 Uighur refugees to uncertain fates in China.
Uighurs complain of Chinese oppression and have stepped up a domestic campaign of violence - usually with knife assaults - but are not known to have ever carried out an attack outside China, or anything as sophisticated as the Erawan blast.
The Islamic State has made it clear it wishes to export its jihad or inspire militant attacks outside of its base in Iraq and Syria, and security experts say it formed a Malay-speaking Southeast Asian unit called Katibah Nusantara for this purpose.
Experts have warned of the possibility of the group - which envisions establishing a Southeast Asian hardline caliphate - eventually staging violent attacks.
"Clearly a group like that has the motivation and the military skills and capability and bomb-making techniques for this," said Davis of IHS Jane's, though he cautions there is as yet nothing suggesting the group's involvement.
Islamic State attacks are usually followed by fiery claims of responsibility. Davis said new actors like Katibah could bring new approaches, and that keeping quiet could be a tactic to sow confusion and fear.
Various Southeast Asian Islamic militant groups have carried out deadly attacks in other parts of the region in the past, including one in Bali in 2002 that killed 202 people.
But the groups considered the biggest threats - such as Jemaah Islamiyah (JI) - are considered to be largely de-fanged by crackdowns, and never made Thailand a prime target.
The attack on a shrine known to draw large numbers of Chinese tourists - in a country where China is the largest source of visitor arrivals - has fueled unconfirmed speculation of a possible anti-China angle.
Thai military junta spokesman Colonel Winthai Suvaree said on Thursday: "Chinese people were not the direct target".
A reenactment of the deadly Bangkok blast by Thailand's Nation TV channel has caused an uproar for its insensitivity.
An actor clad in a yellow shirt and wig suspiciously similar to the bomb suspect was spotted by Twitter user @BoyOfHeaven near the Erawan shrine.
According to Channel NewsAsia, people at the shrine were cursing at the actor. He was later asked to leave by the police.
The president of Nation Broadcasting Corporation later issued an apology.
"On behalf of Nation TV, I'd like to express my sincere apologies and remorse for our attempt to reenact the scene without thinking about the impact it might have on the feelings of the public, and for a lack of respect for the deceased," Adisak Limprungpatanakij said.
An Australian model-actor had to turn himself in to the police after he was mistaken as the man behind the deadly bombing in Bangkok.
Sunny Burns, 26, who also works as a private English tutor in Thailand, posted a selfie on the day of the bombing to let his parents and friends in Australia know that he is safe.
He also posted a photo of himself at the popular Erawan Shrine - the scene of the Monday night blast - which he visited a few days before, on Instagram, saying that "Thailand is and will always be a safe and friendly place".
Little did he know that his selfie would go viral.
Thai journalist Prasitchai Kumbang had tweeted Burns' photo with security camera footage of the bombing suspect, drawing similarities from both photos.
To clear his name after the tweet went viral, Burns voluntarily turned himself in to the police. He posted a selfie taken while talking with the police, saying that he is not a terrorist but a "ting tong actor".
Subsequent posts describe police investigations taking place, followed by a security camera footage of himself returning from the gym and getting ready to teach his English class when the bombing happened.
"I forgive everyone who spread those horrible rumours about me," he said. However, it is "not a nice feeling being called a terrorist", he added in his last post.
The Thai authorities are still looking for the man seen in CCTV footage leaving his bag at the shrine and walking away just before Monday's deadly explosion.
Get the latest news, opinion, trends, coverage, reports and more from AsiaOne—straight to your inbox! Or download our apps from Apple store or Google Play.