2015-07~07
http://dailytimes.com.pk/opinion/30-Jun-2015/religious-freedom

Religious freedom
Each year, the United States of America publishes a list of countries that continually violate religious freedoms. Through the Commission on International Religious Freedoms, these countries are analysed and ranked, and the most restrictive are called tier one nations. In 2015, that list included many nations well known to the western layman as undemocratic. Saudi Arabia, Burma, China and Pakistan all make tier one with accolades. Whether action, through words or arms, is taken to free these countries from the shackles of governmental oppressors depends solely upon the political goals of the United States. The US exists to promote secularism and its own brand of democracy globally and is one of the largest, fairly cohesive and successful societies.
The Pakistani people, with all of their governmental funding from the west, fail to learn this lesson. Pakistan does not exist to promote freedom or secularism — that is not the calling of the nation. The most successful countries in the modern age exist on an ideological basis, meaning they fight for something on an international level. This country was built from the blood of martyrs, to establish a safe haven for the Muslims of the Subcontinent. The unifying point of this nation is to guarantee freedom of religion to Muslims globally. Yet, we consistently fail and allow the economic and political agendas of the elite to negate our mission.
Burma, with its long history of Rohingya oppression, is finally receiving a public relations slap on the wrist but that it is not enough. Common sense dictates that no nation cares about a fiery prime minister giving a domestic speech and complaining about Burmese human rights violations, nor do nations care about Facebook posts. Public opinion must be backed by economic and diplomatic tactics, a fact that many people around the world fail to realise. The Burmese are not the only people inhibiting Muslims from practicing their religion. Our allies consistently make the list by utilising measures to prohibit the practice of Islam in their countries.
China, acknowledged as Pakistan’s closest friend through thick and thin, is one of those nations. This Ramzan, the Chinese have banned fasting for the Uighur Muslims. Shops owned by Uighurs are forced to sell cigarettes and alcohol or risk being shut down, all to undermine the strong culture of Islam that exists in the western regions of China. This disrespect of the faith that Pakistan was founded on is welcomed with open arms, presumably because we put our economic gains above our founding mission. Even media outlets have been unable to provide an opinionated backing to this measure, and ordinary people also do not share this news.
It is not economically beneficial to be virtuous but that is where it counts. Pakistan is one of China’s largest trading partners and a missing piece of the puzzle in China’s quest for regional hegemony. The inferiority complex of our nation must be done away with and we must realise that we are at an equal footing with any nation to guarantee the rights of Muslims. The relationship must obviously not be cut off, but measures should be taken. Economically, embargos might be set or trade in a specific sector slowed down. The goal is not to sever ties with our trading and diplomatic partners, but to let them know that we care and will go to further lengths, if our value systems are consistently overlooked. China, along with other countries, must know that Pakistan and its people care about more than economic gains and that a nation cannot be bought. Only then will the country have respect, enough for it to make a place for itself on the global stage. Spinelessness and malleability is not an adequate base upon which to build a strong nation, nor will it ever be. A stand must be taken and a resolution must be reached; the whole world must know that this nation is steadfast in its goals.
The completeness of a higher mission, which utilises the resources of a country, is consistently underestimated by third tier developing countries like Pakistan. A mission that instils the spirits of the average people and the elite alike with a sense of accomplishment will make the country better off economically. It provides a moral base for unifying the nation, instead of promoting valueless individualism in the form of personal economic gain. Until the people of Pakistan realise this fact, there will be no domestic or international progress. More astute actions must be demanded by the people. A side must be taken by the country as a whole for domestic stability to ensue. An outside enemy is the strongest internal unifying force, and there is nothing that Pakistan needs right now more than unity.

 That the clerics have handled the women protection bill very clumsily is there for all to see. In ...

 The year of the monkey did not start auspiciously for Beijing. In slightly more than a month, its ...

 There is robust literature on the evolving perceptions of European Union (EU) intelligence ...