2015-07~07
http://www.thaivisa.com/forum/topic/839462-chinese-invite-thais-to-check-on-repatriated-uighurs/

Chinese invite Thais to check on repatriated Uighurs - Thailand News - Thailand Forum
You currently have javascript disabled. Several functions may not work. Please re-enable javascript to access full functionality.
Chinese invite Thais to check on repatriated Uighurs
The NationBANGKOK: -- The Chinese government has invited the Thai government to visit China to observe its treatment of the Uighur migrants sent back to the country in an attempt to quash rumours that they were severely punished or killed, according to a Thai Foreign Ministry press statement.
The National Security Council would consider inviting representatives of international organisations such as International Committee of the Red Cross to travel to China with the government officials.
The invitation came about following expressions of concern by several groups that the Uighurs repatriated to China from Thailand may be severely punished, possibly resulting in their death.
The Thai ministry's statement said that the Chinese government had reassured the Thai government that it would treat those people with fairness and guarantee their safety.
Moreover, care would be taken of those found not guilty and they would returned to society. They would also be provided with farmlands, the Chinese government said.
Source: http://www.nationmul...u-30264173.html
 
Source: http://www.nationmul...u-30264173.html
 
-- The Nation 2015-07-10
"Moreover, care would be taken of those found not guilty and they would returned to society."
 Phew! For a minute there I thought there would not be a trial. Silly me!! 
I would be happy if my government would also send back some of the Muslims that enter my country illegally.
And North Korea have been invited to send along an independent witness to observe all.
MFA stresses Chinese Gov’t to justly treat Uighur refugees
BANGKOK, 10 July 2015 (NNT) – The Spokesman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) has confirmed that the Chinese government will ensure fair treatment to all deported Uighur refugees and even provide appropriate work to the deportees who are not involved in criminal activities.
The MFA spokesman and Department of Information Director-General Sek Wannamethee has addressed the concerns over the deportation of Uighur refugees back to China that the Chinese government assured the Thai government that all refugees will receive fair treatment, guaranteeing their safety.
He cited that the Chinese government will ensure refugees will be brought back into society with appropriate work ensured, provided that they are not involved in any criminal activities.
Chinese authorities have also invited Thailand to send its delegation to monitor the entire procedure, while the Office of the National Security Council will respond by sending a delegation of government agency personnel and representatives of international organizations such as the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) to monitor the procedures as invited, the MFA spokesman has said.
-- NNT 2015-07-10


Thailand Says It Rejected China’s Request to Deport All Uighur Muslims
By AMY SAWITTA LEFEVRE & PRACHA HARIRAKSAPITAK BANGKOK — Thailand said on Friday that it had rejected a request from Beijing to deport all Uighur Muslims held in detention camps back to China, two days after the deportation of nearly 100 Uighurs sparked international criticism.
Beijing’s request was denied based on the grounds that the Uighurs’ nationalities had to be “verified” by Thai authorities first, Col. Weerachon Sukhondhapatipak, deputy Thai government spokesman, told reporters.
“We did this according to international agreement and international law and keeping in mind human rights,” said Weerachon.
“This decision was difficult to make. It is not like all of a sudden China asks for Uighurs and we just give them back. China asked for all Uighur Muslims in Thailand to be sent back but we said we could not do it,” he said.
Just have the Red Cross/Red Crescent society visit and send reports to the UN. Nobody
is going to even read or believe reports from Thailand anyway. Save money for those
Oh Thailand ... what is the Club you have become a member of : China and North Korea are your friends ... No one else wants to play with you exept when your girls are spreading legs ...
For the B2 case I wish all bad for Thailand in the next many many years - I will do my part for tourists from my homecountry to boycott this horrible place ...
I would be happy if my government would also send back some of the Muslims that enter my country, ( hell just send them back for being Muslims ) 