2015-07~07
http://www.chiangraitimes.com/category/thailand-national-news/news-asia/feed

News Asia – Chiang Rai Times English Language Newspaper
Majority of these victims were reportedly tricked by swindlers who posed as “successful Western professionals”
HONG KONG – As Internet accessibility in Asia continues to soar, several reports have shown a link with the rise in people becoming victims of Internet crimes.
South China Morning Post (SCMP) reported on Monday (Mar 21) that more women in Hong Kong are falling prey to love scams via online dating sites and apps.
Majority of these victims were reportedly tricked by swindlers who posed as “successful Western professionals” and lost millions of dollars while at it.
According to the report, 90 per cent of the victims were women with tertiary education, and the most vulnerable were between 30 to 40 years old.
One victim, 38-year-old Jennifer Choi, told SCMP how she was conned out of more than HK$200,000 by her “British lover” in March last year. Although the ordeal took a toll on her health, she did not make a police complaint as she found that it “does not heal the wounds in (her) heart”.
Hong Kong police recorded a total of 62 cases last year, an increase from 29 back in 2014, SCMP reported. Last year, swindlers pocketed a total of HK$32 million and transferred most of the money to Malaysia and China.
On the other hand, Malaysians are also found to be most gullible and likely to fall for online scams, revealed a recent study conducted by Telenor Group.
The Star reported that a total of 400 users aged 18 to 65 from Malaysia, India, Singapore, and Thailand took part in the study.
Among these countries, Malaysia came out tops with 46 per cent of respondents who admitted to falling victim to various Internet crimes that include online dating scams.
Also attributing to the same study, The Nation reported that males and females share similar attitudes towards staying safe online and are equally likely to feel in control. However, women are found to be more careful about their email security.
Channel NewsAsia reported that in the first half of 2015, people in Singapore lost S$1.59 million in online credit-for-sex scams, as well as S$3.7 million in Internet love scams.
Though the danger – and repercussions – of online scams are very real, it is relatively simple to avoid falling prey to them. It may seem old news to more experienced users, but since so many still fall prey to online scams, these tips bear repeating:
2. Ignore advertisements that appear “too good to be true”.
5. Disseminate information and share preventive tips with friends and family via social media.
Chinese Falun Gong practicioners and asylum seekers meditate in Bangkok (AFP Photo/Lillian Suwanrumpha)
BANGKOK – Preferring to risk death than face deportation, Dong Junming boarded a boat off Thailand’s coast alongside eight fellow Chinese asylum-seekers in early March with the improbable plan of steering themselves to New Zealand.
He and his group are part of a growing number of refugees — especially Chinese nationals — who feel Thailand is no longer a safe haven under junta rule.
“I was desperate and frightened,” Dong, 52, told AFP of his attempted sea escape. “Even though I could have died, I had to try.”
Thailand has a complex and ambivalent attitude towards refugees. It still holds hundreds of thousands in border camps — most the legacy of regional Cold War conflict years — but it does not legally recognise refugees or offer asylum.
This places the UN’s refugee agency (UNHCR) in charge of handling a rising tide of applications.
Porous borders and a reputation for religious tolerance has long drawn those seeking sanctuary, with ad-hoc law enforcement allowing arrivals to settle into the shadows, or more often, move on to a third country.
Under the Thai junta, which seized power in 2014 vowing to clean the country of corruption and crime, there has been a crackdown on human smuggling gangs, which has won some praise and arrests.
But refugees and rights groups say raids against asylum-seekers are also up, with many left to languish in detention.
Worse, they might be deported back to where they fled from — an acute fear for the Chinese as Thailand’s generals move closer to Beijing.
Last summer Bangkok forcibly deported more than 100 Uighurs, a Muslim minority that rights groups say face persecution in western China.
In November two political dissidents already granted resettlement packages in Canada were also forcibly returned, while two Chinese men seeking safety on Thai soil vanished and reportedly emerged in Chinese custody earlier this year.
For Dong and his compatriots, followers of banned religious movement Falun Gong, the writing was on the wall. So they made their escape.
High waves and strong winds swiftly snuffed the ill-fated journey, damaging the boat and forcing the inexperienced crew back to Thai shores.
Those without proper entry permits were jailed and could now be taken to one of Thailand’s overcrowded immigration detention centres, where refugees face two options: buy a ticket home, or wait — often for years.
“Everyone has to be under Thai law, even if they are asylum-seekers,” said Thai immigration police commissioner Nathathorn Prousoontorn, whose department has adopted the slogan “Good guys in, bad guys out” to publicise a raft of stricter policies towards all foreigners.
He said police will free refugees if they receive a petition from the UNHCR, but advocacy groups dispute this and say securing a release has become nearly impossible under the junta.
This is grim news for Lisa Zhang, another Chinese Falun Gong asylum-seeker whose husband was among the boat crew jailed after police discovered he didn’t have a proper visa.
He was carrying a UNHCR asylum-seeker document, according to his wife, but no Thai visa because he was smuggled into the country to avoid Chinese border guards.
“If he’s deported back to China, that would be worse than death,” she said, struggling to hold back tears.
Until his attempted sea journey, Dong, who says he was tortured in China, went by the book.
He legally entered Thailand and his first stop in Bangkok was the UNHCR.
But two years on his family has yet to be granted their first interview, the initial step in a lengthy process that could lead to resettlement.
So like other refugees he put his life on hold, unable to legally hold a job while his daughter misses out on years of school.
The UNHCR admits it doesn’t have the resources to do the job: only ten staff are handling 7,000 cases.
“We cannot help everyone but prioritise assistance to the most vulnerable,” said spokeswoman Vivian Tan.
Bangkok’s refugees currently hail from nearly 50 countries with Pakistanis — many of them Christian — making up the biggest block.
A web of political, bureaucratic and diplomatic entanglements determine which groups can be processed first, with many waiting for years while others are shipped out in a matter of months.
But the vast majority are unlikely to lead the normal lives they long for — less than one percent of the world’s refugees are successfully resettled.
After two years in Bangkok with little progress and no protection, Lisa’s hopes are fast dwindling.
“We are forgotten by the world,” she said. “I am hopeless.”
The wrecked interprovincial passenger bus after it hit the rear of a truck loaded with asphalt (Photo by Prasit Tangprasert)
NAKHON RATCHASIMA -A speeding interprovincial bus travelling from Bangkok to Roi Et rear-ended a truck in Non Sung district of this northeastern province in the early hours of Friday killing 3 passengers and injureing 18 others, five seriously.
Pol Lt Col Apinan Pluemmarang, a duty officer at Nong Sung police station reported the crash occurred around 2.20am on Friday.
The air-conditioned passenger bus, operated by Sahaphan Roi Et Tour Co, rammed into the rear of a  18-wheel truck loaded with asphalt, rescue workers rushed the injured to Nong Sung and Maharat Nakhon Ratchasima hospitals.
Truck driver Charoonkiart Thanjai, 35, said he was slowing down as he was about to turn off the road and enter the weighbridge when the bus ran into his truck.
Passengers told police the bus was travelling at a very high-speed, when they heard the bus driver shouting that the brakes had failed.
The driver, Pornsathit Wongthalae, 40, fled the scene immediately after the fatal crash, Police are searching for the bus driver.
On March 9th two passengers were killed and 20 others injured when a chartered bus from Khon Kaen to Maha Sarakham skidded off a curve on KhonKaen-Yang Takad road in Chiang Yuen district of Maha Sarakham and rammed at a tree on the road shoulder.
The incident happened before dawn Wednesday as the chartered bus was carrying students to have an examination in Maha Sarakham
A medical team examines the bruising on the body of the four-year-girl rescued from her townhouse in Pathum Thani after being left untended for three days.
PATHUM THANI – A four-year-old girl left alone and uncared for in her parents townhouse has been rescued after being without food or care for three days.
Here cries were finally heard by neighbours, who entered the house and then called police about 11 o’clock on Tuesday night.
The girl had bruises on her body and told people she her mother often beat her with a clothes-hanger if she urinated in her bed
The young girl, who officials called “Bee” to protect her identity, looked frightened and exhausted when she was taken from the two-storey townhouse at a housing estate in tambon Khlong Sam late on Tuesday night, said  Pol Capt Chumphol Songngarm, deputy investigation chief at Khlong Luang district police station.
Neighbours had quickly provided the young child with drinking water and food.
The girl had bruises on her body and told people she her mother often beat her with a clothes-hanger if she urinated in her bed. Her parents were not to be found.
Neighbour Chawalit Chatchai-anan , 44, told the Khaosod: “I had never seen the parents. They kept themselves to themselves and always entered and left the property quietly.
Chavalit Chatchai-anand, 44, said other neighbours told him they heard a girl crying and shouting for help on the second floor of the townhouse.
They went inside the house next door and spoke through the connecting wall to the young girl, telling her to go downstairs and open the door of her house.
The girl understood and did as was suggested, said Sub Lt Chavalit. When questioned by police, the girl said she did not know what her parents were doing or where they were.
Pol Capt Chumphol said the girl was now in the care of the Prachabodi Centre, a welfare centre for women and children. She had also been taken to a hps[ital for a medical check. Police would summon her parents for questioning.
Thailand’s Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha (R) and Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Prawit Wongsuwan (L) leave Government House
BANGKOK – Thailand’s ruling junta has proposed that military commanders should automatically be members of an unelected senate — and insist that the arrangement does not constitute another coup d’état.
The generals — who seized power in May 2014 under now Prime Minister Gen.Prayut Chan-o-cha— have put forward a draft constitution, on which the country will vote on Aug. 7.
The National Council for Peace and Order on Tuesday proposed that the new charter should include a provision that would mean that the country’s five top military generals and the police chief would be ex-officio members of the upper house, Thai PBS reports. The rest of the members of a 250-member senate would be appointed by a selection committee.
According to the Bangkok Post, junta member General Prawit Wonsuwan said the military chiefs would even help prevent a future coup.
“MPs can explain to those military commanders about the administration of their parties,” Prawit said. “We want to do this for only a period of five years, for the most effective and transparent transition and for our future.”
General Prayut has kept a firm lid on free speech since the coup, barring protests, debates and academic seminars that touch on sensitive political issues including the new charter.
The junta leader has promised to hold elections in mid-2017, though he has not specified what will happen if the constitution is rejected the Rappler reports.
The referendum date came as Prayut congratulated neighbouring Myanmar on the historic election of its first civilian leader in more than half a century.
“Thai-Myanmar relations are always good regardless of a civilian or military government,” he added.
For decades Myanmar was considered the more authoritarian of the two.
But with its creaking economy and repressive military rulers, Thailand has now been dubbed by some as the new “sick man” of Southeast Asia.