2015-07~07
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/society/article/1841452/china-arrests-uygur-bomb-attack-suspect

China arrests Uygur suspect who planned ‘bomb attack’ on shopping mall | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Suspect from Xinjiang 'confesses' to training in Syria for planned attack in Hebei province
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Police foiled a terrorist plot to bomb a shopping mall in Hebei  province, state media said on Monday, as it aired a “confession” by a suspect from the far western region of Xinjiang  who said he had trained for the attack in Syria.
The suspect from Kashgar  said in a eight-minute video on China Central Television that he had fled to Syria via Turkey for “bomb-making training” in early 2013. He said he returned to China earlier this year, staying in Shijiazhuang, where he plotted to blow up a shopping mall.
The video showed him with a shaved head and wearing a yellow vest from a detention centre.
The case and confession could not be independently verified, but the report underscored Beijing’s concern that the threat of terror attacks was spreading.
It also highlighted its fight to prevent locals from joining overseas terrorist groups.
The report said the suspect had met a member of the Eastern Turkestan Islamic Movement who talked to him about achieving martyrdom through violence, and that when he arrived in Turkey he was put in contact with a militant group based in Syria.
“I wanted to launch a bomb attack, and I hoped to get some funds for it,” he said.
He had looked for explosives, tried to recruit others, and even identified a shopping mall for the attack before he was caught.
The video did not show if the suspect was accompanied by a lawyer, nor did it clarify if he had been formally charged.
A police officer said the suspect had fled abroad with the help of the member of the Eastern Turkestan Islamic Movement, listed by Beijing as a terrorist group. No details were given of how or when he was captured.
The report came after police in Shenyang, Liaoning, said last week they had shot dead three suspected terrorists from Xinjiang  and arrested a fourth.
Beijing has previously said some Uygurs from Xinjiang have travelled to Syria via Southeast Asia and Turkey with the aim of waging jihad in China.
Jiang Zhaoyong, a Beijing-based analyst, said authorities wanted the video to show the danger of having a pathway in Turkey for illegal migrants to flee to overseas terrorist groups.
“Mainland state media would not bring up the matter of terrorist attacks unless something bad had happened, for fear that such a report would cause the public to panic,” he said.
“So the key message the video delivers is not the failed attempt at a bomb attack, but rather, the risks that China is exposed to when people can flee to overseas terrorist groups.”
But Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the exiles group the World 8Uygur Congress, said mainland authorities were attempting to use a forced confession to portray China as the victim of terrorist attacks and to “hype up hostility again the Uygurs”.