2015-07~07
http://www.iol.co.za/news/south-africa/sa-detainees-home-1.1887241

SA detainees home | IOL
As five of the 10 South Africans detained in China returned home to their families on Friday, the circumstances of their captivity remained shrouded in secrecy.
Chinese police arrested them in Ordos, Inner Mongolia, last Friday, as part of a group of 20, mostly elderly people, including nine Britons and one Indian citizen, who were suspected of watching “terrorist” videos.
On Friday night at OR Tambo International Airport, the returning group of five evaded the media, though their arrival was confirmed.
The five remaining South Africans were expected to land back in the country on Saturday, according to the Department of International Relations and Co-operation, in what it described as “a victory for diplomacy”.
Among the detainees are Hoosain Ismail Jacobs, a 74-year-old former anti-apartheid activist. Another was Dr Feroz Suliman, a surgeon at the Waterfall hospital in Midrand.
Vodacom chief executive Shameel Joosub, whose relatives were among those detained, said yesterday: “My family and I would like to extend our gratitude to the deputy president for everything he has done to bring them home. We also want to thank the staff of the Department of International Relations and Co-operation, to the consular services staff in China, to the Gift of the Givers (Foundation), and to all the other people who worked so hard to resolve the situation.”
Na’eem Jeenah, executive director of the Afro-Middle East Centre, said the group’s detention may have to do with the Chinese government’s suppression of Uighur Muslims in far western China. “We know there were reports that at the beginning of Ramadaan, they (the region’s Uighur community) were not allowed to fast. If the majority of this tourist group is indeed Muslim, as has been suggested, then, yes, that’s one of the pieces of the puzzle.”
International Relations and Co-operation spokesman Nelson Kgwete said embassy staff in China had visited all the South Africans in detention, and intervened on their behalf through diplomatic processes. – Additional reporting by Thabiso Thakali
Four people were killed in a head-on collision on Morgenster Street near Swartklip in Mitchells Plain, ER24 reported.
Seven people died in an horrific accident in Montagu when their vehicle overturned and burst into flames.
Sassa has suspended the disability grant of a man shot by the SA Defence Force during the Struggle, leaving him begging on the street.
A member of the police’s Flying Squad is being investigated for allegedly pointing an R5 rifle at the head of a community worker.
Most of the houses in Bo-Kaap’s Chiappini Street are well-maintained and painted in the bright colours the area is famous for.
Heidedal residents has accused Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane of ineptitude for allegedly dragging his feet over ...
Engine failure has been cited as the reason for the emergency landing of a light aircraft at Virginia Beach.
The Helen Suzman Foundation said it was the target of an armed break-in to its offices in Parktown, Johannesburg.