2015-07~07
http://www.newsfultoncounty.com/politics/news/296213-indonesia-jails-fourth-uighur-on-terrorism-offences

Indonesia Jails Fourth Uighur On 'terrorism' Offences | Fulton News
– Found guilty of entering Indonesia using fake Turkish passport with three other men with the intention of joining ‘terror’ group

JAKARTA – An Indonesian court on Wednesday sentenced a further Uighur Muslim man to six years in prison on charges of “terrorism” and immigration violations.
Earlier this month, the court sentenced three more Uighur Muslims to six years each on the same charges.
The panel of judges in North Jakarta District Court found Ahmet Bozoglan guilty of violating Indonesia’s anti-terrorism and immigration laws.
Judge Houtman Lumbang Tobing ruled the 28-year-old was from China’s western Xinjiang region, and not a Turkish national as his “fake passport” – and the other men’s – had stated.
“Sentencing Ahmet Bozoglan to six years in prison,” Indonesian news site Detik.com reported Tobing as saying.
The judge also ordered him to pay a fine of Rp100 million ($7,500), or spend an additional six months in prison.
The judges stated that the Bozoglan entered Indonesia using the fake passport with the intention of joining a group called the Indonesian Mujahidin.
The Mujahidin is reported to be led by Indonesia’s most wanted terrorist, Abu Wardah Santoso.
Santoso is reported to have been linked to a number of attacks on police anti-terrorism squad Detachment 88, including the killing of at least six of its members.
Bozoglan was arrested with the three other Uighur — Ahmet Mahmud, 20, Abdulbasit Tuzer, 24, and Abdullah, 28- who also goes by the name of Altinci Bayyram — in the rugged village of Marantale, Moutong Parigi, Central Sulawesi, in Sept. 2014. 
Like the other three, Bozoglan has been told he will serve his time in an Indonesian jails.
Officials have been reported as saying that at the opening of their trial the men were asked to sing the Turkish national anthem.
The four men failed, thus further clarifying in the eyes of the court that they were not citizens of Turkey.
Indonesia jails fourth Uighur on 'terrorism' offences added by David Fisher on July 29, 2015View all posts by David Fisher →
An Indonesian court on Wednesday sentenced a Uighur Muslim man to six years in prison on charges of terrorism and immigration violations. Indonesia jails 4th Uighur on terrorism offences.