2015-07~07
http://www.freedistrict.com/asia/china/uighur-terrorist-suspects-shot-dead-chinese-policemen-9227.html

Uighur terrorist suspects shot dead by Chinese Policemen SouthEast ASIA News

On Monday, police in north-eastern China shot dead three people and injured a fourth suspect who were all suspected as terrorists. Meanwhile, a 28 year-old woman and three children who were all taken into custody from the same apartment.
The authorities said that the suspected terrorists resisted their arrest by using knives. Thus, they were brutally shot dead on the spot without any hesitation.
Officials described the men as ethnic Uighur Muslims, belonging to Xinjiang Muslim majority region of China. Xinjiang province is a vulnerable place and in the recent past several clashes have been reported between the Uighur and Han Chinese population.
In fact, it’s one of the rarest incident that occurred outside of Xinjiang.
Uighur, Turkic ethnic group living in Eastern and Central Asia, are one of the 56 recognized ethnic minorities in China. Many Uighur have fled from persecution and are living in exile in other countries.
All of them have same issues that we don’t have cultural and religious freedom in China.
According to the World Uighur Congress spokesman, Dilaxit Raxit, the suspects shot were among dozens of Uighurs who had been rounded up and arrested as they were trying to flee through China’s northeast border.
The occurrence of violence as a form of political resistance in China has been attributed to government policies restricting the practice of religion and political expression, particularly in the Xinjiang region.
It is a sensitive issue in China which steers commotion to the public. Beijing denies any kind of discrimination against Uighur minority living in Xinjiang and claims that it is a matter of public safety and national security that needs immediate action. Image / FILE AP
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
TwitterFacebookGoogle+BufferFollow @FreedistrictFormer NBA star Lamar Odom in critical condition after found taking cocaine and sexual performance enhancers. The 35 year-old reality TV star and former NBA Lamar Odom was hospitalized after being discovered unconscious at the Dennis Hof’s Love Ranch brothel in Crystal, Nevada, 13 October 2015, Tuesday. He is reportedly taking cocaine and sexual […]
TwitterFacebookGoogle+BufferFollow @FreedistrictPattaya Gay Scene Thailand – Pattaya is a touristy beach resort less than two hours from Bangkok with a large gay scene. Definitely worth a visit, especially if you’re interested in go-go bars or freelancers. These days, the scene also includes some non-commercial venues. Pattaya is like taking the commercial gay scene of Bangkok […]
Know Thyself - There has been much discussion throughout history as to the exact meaning of the … Read More...
The premature birth risk among pregnant women was notably greater when exposed to high levels of small particle air pollution, a study has found. The researchers identified a 19% higher risk of women giving birth prematurely if they are exposed to fine particle air pollution during pregnancy. The premature birth risk was highest among those mothers […]