2015-07~07
http://www.worldbulletin.net/erdogan-in-china-amid-tensions-over-uighur-issue/162551/erdogan-in-china-amid-tensions-over-uighur-issue

Erdogan in China amid tensions over Uighur issue | Diplomacy | Worldbulletin News
Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan visits Beijing to hold talks with his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, and other senior officials at a time of increased tensions between two countries over Uighur issue. 
Earlier, President Erdogan repeatedly criticized Chinese government for discrimination of Uighurs, who share close linguistic, cultural and religious ties with Turks. Erdogan also described Chinese actions towards Uighurs as "genocide". Different views on Uighur problem are expected to complicate upcoming discussions on improving relations. 
China's state-run China Daily said in a Wednesday editorial that the "Uighur issue ... if left unattended, may poison ties and derail cooperation." The newspaper suggested that Beijing would pressure Erdogan to stop Turkish officials issuing Uighurs who "illicitly left China" with travel documents.
As tensions over the refugees mounted this month, activists stormed the Thai consulate in Istanbul and burnt the Chinese flag outside Beijing's consulate in the city. China "strongly condemned" the acts.
In 2013, Turkey started negotiations with a Chinese state-run company over an anti-missile system contract worth $3.4 billion, which was surprising for Turkey's NATO allies.
A final deal has been elusive, with Erdogan noting "impediments" have emerged after an initial Chinese proposal, but he said the issue will be on the agenda in Beijing.
"Any offer that will enrich this appropriate proposal will be welcomed by us," he told China's official news agency Xinhua in an interview published on Tuesday.
"I believe this visit will give more momentum to bilateral relations."
Boosting Turkish exports to China is also likely to be high on Erdogan's agenda, with Ankara running a large trade deficit with the world's second-largest economy, according to official Chinese statistics.
'As long as our nation keeps strong our unity, togetherness and solidarity, [we can prevail over terrorism],' Turkish president says
Turkish dailies on Monday reported the identity of the suicide bomber who blew himself up on Istanbul's Istiklal Street
At least 164 people have been held over unauthorised Nevruz demonstrations on Sunday in Istanbul
Turkish president expresses his sorrow over deaths of Israeli and Iranian citizens in Saturday's Istanbul suicide attack
Turkish president says Assad committed state terrorism and must be tried at the International Criminal Court
Turkish president also accuses European Union of being insincere in Turkey's accession process
Turkish FM also calls Belgium counterpart to convey Turkey’s objections to allowing PKK supporters pitch tents in Brussels near EU-Turkey summit venue
Turkish president also slams Belgian government for allowing PKK supporters in Brussels to pitch tents near EU-Turkey summit
Ankara public prosecutor asks Justice Ministry to request Interpol red notice for 47 PKK terrorists, including senior figures
'The attacker has been formally identified' as an ISIL member
Reports suggest ISIL extremists are suspected of being behind the latest attack which targeted Istiklal Caddesi
Victims of the attack are memorialized with carnations; defiant signs go up saying, 'We are not afraid'
Turkish ambassador to the US Serdar Kilic accepts the award on behalf of the Turkish government and people
NATO and EU states also express solidarity with Turkey in aftermath of attack on Istiklal Street
Of the 36 people injured in this mornings suicide bomb in Istiklal Street, 12 of them have been established to be foreigners.
Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu's remarks come during joint press conference with his Iranian counterpart Zarif in Istanbul
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
