2015-07~07
http://www.thestatesman.com/news/opinion/sanctions-on-pakistan/73229.html

The Statesman: Sanctions on Pakistan?
Congress leader Manish Tewari criticised the BJP leadership for evoking a debate on the use of the slogan "Bharat Mata ki Jai" to express one's patriotism.
The finance minister said that Vijay Mallya has not only brought himself a bad name, he has also brought a terrible name to private sector entrepreneurs in the country.
HRD Minister Smriti Irani said she is hopeful that the educational diplomacy which leverages excellence in India as part of diplomacy will take us from strength to strength in times to come.
Pak on Monday ratified amendment to legally-binding international instrument on safety of nuclear material.
On his maiden visit to China close on the heels of his recent visit to India, Oli held wide-ranging talks with Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and called on President Xi.
Obama was greeted by a military band at the Palace of the Revolution, the main government building since the 1959 revolution that turned Cuba into a communist state
Australia reached at the third position in Group 2 while Bangladesh touched the bottom with the loss.
The World Cup winning captain expressing disappointment at the national team’s loss against India in World T20 clash, he said Pakistan team did not do justice with their talent.
New Zealand’s third win in a row has almost certainly assured Suzie Bates’ team a place in the semi-finals even before its last league match against South Africa in Bengaluru on March 26.
Jaitley said RBI is an experienced institution. After all, RBI has no particular interest in keeping rates high.
The US govt funding agency, USAID said Nepal heavily depends on water resources to meet its energy demands as more than 90% of its total electricity generation capacity is hydropower based.
The company on Monday stunned its rivals by launching a cheaper, smaller yet powerful iPhone SE and a game changer 9.7-inch iPad Pro. The products will be available in 100 countries.
The Sufi conference inaugurated by Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Thursday last appears to have been part of a well-planned scheme of the BJP to create confusion among Muslims.
With Obama’s historic visit to Cuba, the US President and his counterpart, Raul Castro, have scripted a watershed chapter in what is often referred to as Pan-American history.
There have been many military intervention by the UN in the second half of the 20th century; running the gamut from large-sized interventions to small-scale ones.
The BJP leader said the party will expose the govt’s lies.
In letter, Maliwal urged the police to take adequate steps.
The racketeers used to kill wild boar and deer species.
Union Minister of state for steel and mines Vishnu Deo Sai visited Nalco Corporate Office here on Monday and reviewed the performance of the
How often do we actually remember the contents of subjects that are taught in school?
Cricket match between India and Pak sees the level of madness raised to an impossible pitch.
There are large parts of Assam that have yet to see any development.
A weak gut is the result of poor dietary diversity.
Dipesh chakrabarty, a professor at the University Of Chicago, recently delivered a lecture on the implications of climate change on human history in Kolkata.
With the Central University of Jammu entering into a tie-up with the only Press Club in the state, students are guaranteed hands-on experience.
Cricket match between India and Pak sees the level of madness raised to an impossible pitch.
The actor says he is still a 'student' in showbiz.
Bollywood's Rocky Handsome is all set for its clash with the much-awaited Hollywood superhero flick Batman vs Superman.
But the lead star John
The actor said he had a great time shooting for the film.
On 22 June, the Afghan Parliament was attacked by jihadi extremists while it was in session. According to Haseeb Sediqi, a spokesman for the National Directorate of Security, Afghanistan’s intelligence agency, preliminary investigations revealed that Bilal, an ISI officer, had helped the Haqqani network’s operational commander, Maulvi Sherin, to plan the attack.
During a meeting of the United Nations Sanctions Committee on 23 June, India’s efforts to have Pakistan censured for having released Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, the mastermind of the 26/11 terror strikes in Mumbai, were blocked by China on the specious grounds that India had not provided sufficient information. Lakhvi is under trial in Pakistan for planning the Mumbai strikes. While China showed that its friendship with Pakistan is indeed “higher than the mountains, deeper than the oceans, stronger than steel and sweeter than honey”, as the leaders of the two countries have often averred, China appears to have forgotten that it is itself a victim of terrorist activity that has its roots on Pakistani soil. Only a day after this gross error of judgment, 18 Uighur policemen were killed in Xinjiang, China’s restive north-western province. The East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), that receives weapons and equipment from Pakistan-based terrorist organisations, has been blamed for the killings.
Two weeks ago, the US State Department said in its annual report on terrorism that Pakistan has not taken any action against the anti-India Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), which continues to “operate, train, rally, propagandise and fundraise” despite having been banned. Other terrorist organisations like the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), Harkat-ul-Jihad Al-Islami (HuJI) and the Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ) are the other limbs of the ISI that are active across Pakistan’s borders. The Afghan Taliban, including the Haqqani network, are still being provided safe haven in Pakistan even as the army battles terrorist organisations that threaten Pakistan’s integrity like the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) and the Tehreek-e-Nafaz-e-Shariat-e-Mohammadi (TNSM).
Pakistan’s ISI has for long been directing trans-Durand Line hit-and-run strike operations from safe havens on Pakistani territory against targets in Afghanistan. Mullah Omar’s Quetta Shoora, the Paktia-based Haqqani network and the Hizb-e-Islami, founded by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, all operate out of bases inside Pakistan. In the past, Pakistani clerics sought to “legitimise” Pakistan’s support for the Taliban insurgency. Ulema Council chairman Tahir Ashrafi justified suicide attacks in Afghanistan, saying these were permitted under Islam as long as US forces were present.
General Sher Mohammad Karimi, Chief of Staff of the Afghan army, said during an interview with the BBC some time ago, that the war with the Taliban could be wrapped up in weeks if Pakistan so wished. Hanif Atmar, the Afghan NSA, has identified threats from five types of terror networks - the Afghan Taliban, the Pakistani Taliban and the Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Al Qaida, the Islamic State or Daesh and Chinese groups like the ETIM. The Afghan National Security Council (NSC) has called for the blacklisting of ISI.
Indian assets in Afghanistan have been repeatedly targeted by Pakistan’s so-called ‘strategic assets’. The Indian Embassy in Kabul was attacked by ISI-sponsored extremists in 2008 and 2009; the Indian consulate at Herat was targeted in 2014. The ISI continues to sponsor terrorist strikes in Jammu and Kashmir and other parts of India. While there have been no large-scale attacks in the recent past like those in Mumbai on 26 November 2008, a large number of smaller incidents have occurred fairly regularly.
In J&K, infiltration along the LoC has been increasing and there have been more incidents of violence in the last two years than in previous years. Wireless intercepts and the interrogation of arrested jihadi extremists reveal direct linkages with ISI handlers based in POK and Pakistan. The ISI provides funding, weapons, training and intelligence support to the infiltrating groups. The Pakistan army helps them to cross the LoC by providing “covering fire”. The Pakistan government continues to claim that it provides only ‘diplomatic, political and moral’ support to Kashmiri ‘freedom fighters’.
Through a process of slow motion implosion, Pakistan is gradually becoming a failed state. Never before has its integrity been threatened as now - by internal instability, radical extremism, creeping Talibanisation, fissiparous tendencies, Sunni-Shia sectarian violence, political dissonance and a sliding economy. While the army faces an almost full-blown insurgency in Balochistan, there are subterranean tensions in Sind and Gilgit-Baltistan as well. Yet, despite the risk of disintegration due to internal strife, the Pakistan army and the ISI continue to sponsor terrorist strikes in Afghanistan and India.
It emerges clearly from the proclivity of the Pakistan army and the ISI to run with the hare and hunt with the hounds that the country has consciously opted to become the epicentre of Islamist fundamentalist terrorism despite itself being in the throes of disintegration. The international community must censure Pakistan in the strictest possible terms and give the government six months’ time to stop all activities aimed at destabilising its neighbours. Failing satisfactory progress, UN-approved economic, military and travel-related sanctions should be imposed on Pakistan.
Also, countries supplying weapons and defence equipment to Pakistan must stop doing so, especially surplus military equipment that is being gifted, for example by the US. There have also been reports of the proposed sale of Mi-35 attack helicopters by Russia. Military aid strengthens the Pakistan army and gives it greater confidence to dominate the country’s polity. It also enables the army to drive Pakistan’s foreign and security policies, denying the elected civilian government its legitimate right to guide policy.
The time has come for the international community to stop mollycoddling the Pakistan army on the ground that it must be supported in order to ensure that its nuclear weapons do not fall into jihadi hands. This is a bogey that has been perpetuated very successfully by the Pakistan army to enable it to continue to call the shots. The ‘deep state’ and its strategic assets must be gradually dismantled.