2015-07~07
http://www.lidtime.com/thai-official-uighurs-sent-back-to-china-being-treated-well-1566/

Thai official: Uighurs sent back to China being treated well - LidTime.com
Those immigrants crossed borders in an illegal manner, not to mention some of them are criminal or even terrorist suspects, Li Renliang, a professor at Thailand’s National Institute of Development Administration, said in a recent interview with Xinhua. Raging protesters attacked the Thai consulate in Istanbul, breaking windows and ransacking offices.
Anusit, who was also a head of the National Security Council, said the Uighur group’s leader told him that they were misled by human traffickers into traveling to other countries, Thai PBS reported.
He stated that he had met with a senior Chinese official who reassured him that the Uighur migrant were being cared for and he was also allowed to speak to them personally.
At a press conference to brief reporters on last week’s trip by a Thai delegation to check on the 109 deportees detained at a rehabilitation centre in Urumqi, the capital of China’s restive Xinjiang province, Mr Anusit said he was satisfied with Beijing’s treatment of the returnees.
The security chief said the Thai officials had been granted “unprecedented” access to the returned refugees by the Chinese authorities, noting that China’s government does not usually permit foreign governments or organizations to visit the center.
Many Turks believe that Uighur are among a number of Turkic tribes that inhabit the Xinjiang region, and consider it to be part of Central Asia, not China. Beijing has accused Uighur separatists of terrorism in Xinjiang, where ethnic violence has left hundreds of people dead over the past two years. “The plates were all sanitized”, said Anusit, who arrived back in Thailand on Sunday night.
He said at present a report is being prepared which will be approved by Gen. Prawit Wongsuwan, the deputy prime minister, who will then inform Prime Minister Gen Prayut Chan-o-cha.
Stay on topic – This helps keep the thread focused on the discussion at hand.
Be proactive – Use the “Flag as Inappropriate” link at the upper right corner of each comment to let us know of abusive posts.
Sign up for our newsletter and get latest news and updates delivered to your inbox.