2015-07~07
http://www.thaivisa.com/forum/topic/840281-nsc-member-to-visit-china-to-observe-how-repatriated-uighurs-are-treated/

NSC member to visit China to observe how repatriated Uighurs are treated - Thailand News - Thailand Forum
You currently have javascript disabled. Several functions may not work. Please re-enable javascript to access full functionality.
NSC member to visit China to observe how repatriated Uyghurs are treated
BANGKOK, 14 July 2015, (NNT) - National Security Council (NSC) Secretary-General Anusit Kunakorn is scheduled to visit China from July 15 - 17, in order to observe the way the recently repatriated 109 Uyghurs from Thailand are being treated.
The Secretary-General is to meet with officials from China’s Ministry of State Security regarding the matter, in his bid to prevent further misunderstanding about Thailand’s decision to repatriate the migrants. He will seek Chinese authority’s permission to personally observe the treatment of these individuals who are now under the supervision of Chinese officials.
Earlier Prime Minister General Prayut Chan-o-cha had said Thai authorities would strictly follow the international humanitarian guidelines when dealing with illegal migrants in the country.
Meanwhile, the Thai embassy in Ankara, Turkey has issued a warning on its Facebook page to all Thais residing in the country to be extra careful when traveling. According to the warning, Turkish locals are still hostile towards Thai as they resent the Thai government's decision to repatriate the 109 Uyghurs to China.
-- NNT 2015-07-14


Hi bid. This Thai is "bidding." Biding is a Thai euphemism for posturing.
They can be visited at number 134, Potemkin Village, China Inc.10500.
The Chinese have already taken sanitized pictures and video of a select few Uyghurs who have been conditioned and coached.  They will be shown in very nice comfortable surroundings.  All the Chinese will do is hand the package over to the Secretary-General at a lavish dinner they will throw for him when he arrives.  After dinner he will be driven back to his penthouse (not alone), in a chauffeur driven limousine, at the most expensive hotel in town.
The next few days he will spend site-seeing.  We all know what his report will say.
After all, Thailand is China's new best friend forever (BFF).
The Chinese have already taken sanitized pictures and video of a select few Uyghurs who have been conditioned and coached.  They will be shown in very nice comfortable surroundings.  All the Chinese will do is hand the package over to the Secretary-General at a lavish dinner they will throw for him when he arrives.  After dinner he will be driven back to his penthouse (not alone), in a chauffeur driven limousine, at the most expensive hotel in town.
The next few days he will spend site-seeing.  We all know what his report will say.
After all, Thailand is China's new best friend forever (BFF).
Reminds one of the German model concentration camps that were the showpieces for the visiting Red Cross inspectors. Plenty of food, music, everyone happy.
 
A pure waste of tax payer money.  Bet they come back with glowing report of well treated repatriated Uighers and a choreographed meeting. Hindsight can be a bitch. 