2015-07~07
http://www.aljazeera.com/programmes/insidestory/2015/07/uighurs-firing-line-china-150712202212689.html

Uighurs in the firing line in China? - Al Jazeera English
Meet the refugees who fled Syria for the Gaza Strip
13 Jul 2015 01:21 GMT | Human Rights, Asia Pacific, China, Iraq, Syria
Uighur Muslims complain of cultural and religious suppression, along with economic marginalisation in China's far western region of Xinjiang.
Chinese government leaders accuse Uighur separatists of fomenting what they call "terrorism".
Now, Beijing has gone a step further, saying more than 100 Uighurs deported from Thailand on Thursday were heading to join the wars in Syria and Iraq.
The UN refugee agency condemns the deportations as a "flagrant violation of international law". Rights groups fear the Uighurs will be tortured back in China.
It is adding to a growing controversy surrounding the treatment of Uighurs trying to escape what they say is persecution at home.
But should those who have left be made to return?
Victor Gao - director of China National Association of International Studies, a government think tank.
Mustafa Kibaroglu - head of the Department of Political Science and International Relations at MEF University.

 Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
 are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
 or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
 global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
 accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.

During the first two weeks of March, at least 1,428 were arrested for breaching Hungary's border fence with Serbia.
As Obama prepares to visit, questions remain over whether the embargo will be lifted and the future of Guantanamo Bay.
Are memes calling the Irish "the first slaves" an attempt to derail conversations about slavery and modern-day racism?
Palestinian American Farouk Shami is an associate who says the Republican candidate would make a "great president".
At unprecedented joint press conference, US and Cuban presidents go toe-to-toe on human rights and economic punishment.
Moscow warns it will act unilaterally in response to alleged ceasefire infringements by Syrian rebels starting Tuesday.
Latin American migrants risk life and limb to reach the US border in search of the American dream.
The incredible story of 18 cows that became Israel's most wanted fugitives and symbols of Palestinian resistance.
Five years after the revolution, Tunisia's black minority has yet to experience the freedoms enjoyed by other citizens.