2015-07~07
http://asia.nikkei.com/Politics-Economy/International-Relations/Consulate-attacked-after-Thailand-forcibly-deports-over-100-Uighur-Muslims

China's minorities: Consulate attacked after Thailand forcibly deports over 100 Uighur Muslims- Nikkei Asian Review
KENJI KAWASE, Nikkei deputy editor, and SINAN TAVSAN, Nikkei staff writer
BANGKOK/ANKARA -- Thailand's forced deportation of around 100 ethnic Uighurs refugees back to China has sparked an attack on the Thai consulate in Turkey and is drawing widespread criticism from the international community and human rights groups.
     The deportees, Turkic language-speaking Muslims, had fled their home in the western Chinese region of Xinjiang to escape ongoing government persecution. Their deportation was announced Thursday.
     Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, defending his government's decision, said that what happens to the refugees after deportation is not Thailand's responsibility.
   "We condemn the Thailand government's act," the Turkish Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Thursday, describing the deportation as a violation of international humanitarian law that took place despite the "repeated efforts" of Turkey's government to prevent it.
    In a veiled warning to Beijing, the ministry also expressed solidarity with the deported Uighurs, saying the "fate of our kinsmen will continue to be closely followed by our country and [the] international community."
   Many in Turkey feel a religious and cultural affinity with the Uighurs, and their treatment in China is becoming an increasingly sensitive issue. Recent reports that fasting during the holy month of Ramadan has been banned in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region in western China fueled further resentment in Turkey. On June 30, the Turkish Foreign Ministry issued a statement directly to Beijing's ambassador to Ankara conveying "sadness among the Turkish People" and "deep concern" over the issue.
    After word of the deportation spread, more than 100 people stormed the Thai honorary consulate in Istanbul. Television footage showed the Thai flag being pulled down and fixtures and furnishings inside the building being vandalized.
   Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan criticized the attack on the consulate as well as those on East Asian tourists who, because of their appearance, were taken for Chinese. "The provocative acts that took place in Istanbul do not suit us," he said at a dinner reception with ambassadors to Ankara on Thursday night.
     At the same time, he also voiced his support for the Uighurs: "We stand by our Uighur kinsmen as with our other kinsmen and brothers," he said, adding that he will discuss the issue during his visit to China at the end of the month.
The forcible deportation has also triggered criticism from international organizations, such as the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees.
    "While we are seeking further clarifications on what happened exactly, we are shocked by this deportation of some 100 people and consider it a flagrant violation of international law," said Volker Turk, the UNHCR's assistant high commissioner for refugees. According to the agency, it has approached the Thai government numerous times and was given assurances that "the matter would be handled in accordance with international legal standards."
    Human rights organizations have also been quick to condemn the Thai government. "Deporting these people is a despicable act, and illegal under international law," said Nicholas Bequelin, regional director for East Asia at Amnesty International. "This is akin to sentencing them to the worst punishment imaginable. Time and time again we have seen Uighurs returned to China disappearing into a black hole, with some detained, tortured and in some cases, sentenced to death and executed."
    The organization is urging Bangkok not to deport the 50 Uighurs remaining within the country, and is also calling on China to disclose what happened to the ones who have been sent back.
   Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch, was also critical. "Thailand has cravenly caved to pressure from Beijing and robbed these people of their only protections," she said.
    Richardson is also apprehensive over how the deportees will be treated by Beijing. "The risks to Uighurs forcibly returned to China are grim and well established, so it's urgent to protect anyone in Thailand who the Chinese claim is a Uighur against forced expulsion or return."
    The World Uyghur Congress, the international umbrella body of exiled Uighur groups, said in a statement Thursday that the transfer of 173 ethnic Uighurs to Turkey last week prompted China to renew its pressure on the Thai government. Bangkok's move to allow the deportation is "an indication of the power that the Chinese government holds in relation to its neighboring states."
    The group alleges that at least 25 Uighur men were killed during the deportation, citing its "source on the ground in Thailand." This has not been confirmed by either Thai or Chinese authorities.
    Hua Chunying, a Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman, did not directly confirm the deportation, but speaking at a daily briefing on Thursday, she said that "activities of illegal migrants ... infringe on common interests of the international community" and there exist a "common understanding in the international community in cracking down on illegal migrants."
You have limited access. To enjoy full access, subscribe now.
Your subscription renewal has not been processed.Please update your payment information and enjoy full access.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week

Your subscription renewal could not be processed. Please update your payment information to continue enjoying the Nikkei Asian Review.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week


 Nikkei Asian Review is the only publication that brings you Insight about Asia, from the inside out.
 XXcontractNameXX has enabled you free full access to Nikkei Asian Review.
