2015-07~07
http://www.worldbulletin.net/headlines/162587/trade-focus-of-erdogan-china-trip

Trade focus of Erdogan China trip | Diplomacy | Worldbulletin News
Bilateral trade was the focus of discussion Wednesday during President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's first visit to China as president, but both countries’ leaders also touched on more sensitive issues.
Turkish presidential sources said after Erdogan's meeting with President Xi Jingping that the two statesmen had discussed issues surrounding China's Muslim population.
Around 350 Uighur held at detention centers in Thailand have been at the center of a diplomatic tug-of-war between the two countries, with China identifying them as from occupied East Turkestan, while Turkey welcomed them as its own.
Turkey has also voiced concerns over reports that members of China's Muslim community had been banned from fasting - suggestions that led to protests against Beijing in Turkey and flag burning by nationalist Turks.
The issue was a topic at the meeting, said the sources who did not wish to be named for reasons of confidentiality.
They added that Erdogan's plan to meet with representatives from China's Uighur and Hui Muslim communities was welcomed by Chinese officials.
"Turkey's sensitivity about Chinese territorial integrity was [also] mentioned in the meeting, as well as not accepting any terrorist incidents inside China," the source said.
Chinese state media has reported that "Muslim terrorists" have orchestrated attacks on police stations and other symbols of the state in the "Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region", which many Turks refer to as "East Turkestan".
Prior to delegate talks in the Great Hall of People, Erdogan told media that both countries had paved the way for strategic cooperation in 2010 and were now "ready to put those plans into practice."
 "We took the first step in 2010 with China with a strategic alliance, and we are now in the practice phase. We are looking at our relations with China from a strategic way," he said.
"This visit will strengthen the understanding between our nations and help cement friendship between our people," he added.
The three-day trip is Erdogan's second diplomatic trip to the country, following a previous visit in 2012 as prime minister.
Since his first election win of 2003, diplomatic relations - established between the two countries in 1971 - have significantly improved, peaking over the last 10 years through several high-level bilateral visits.
In 2010, the two countries adopted a “Joint Declaration on the Establishment and Development of the Strategic Relationship of Cooperation,” and bilateral trade - at $1 billion in 2000 - is now estimated to have surpassed more then $24 billion.
President Xi Jingping highlighted the importance of such economic relations remaining on a firm footing Wednesday, saying that he hopes they will continue to be "rich in content."
The countries signed several agreements over the course of the day, among them a Memorandum of Understanding on Establishing a Cooperation Committee between Turkey and China on Deputy Prime Ministers' Level, and a Development Plan for Middle and Long Term about Mutual Encouraging and Protection of Investment Between Turkey and China.
The sources told Anadolu Agency that Erdogan and Xi Jingping have now targeted $100 billion in trading volume and will invite businessmen to visit both countries.
Erdogan began his visit with a trip to the Monument to the People's Heroes in Tiananmen Square where he placed a wreath.
After an hour-long closed door meeting with Prime Minister Li Keqiang, he headed to the National People's Congress for a 30-minute meet with Zhang Dejiang, the head of the country's parliament and the ruling Communist Party's third ranked leader.
Accompanying Erdogan were Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu, Health Minister Mehmet Muezzinoglu, Transport Minister Feridun Bilgin, Economy Minister Nihat Zeybekci and Energy Minister Taner Yildiz.
On leaving China on July 30, Erdogan is scheduled to fly to Indonesia, where he will meet President Joko Widodo and participate in a Turkey-Indonesia Business Forum.
'As long as our nation keeps strong our unity, togetherness and solidarity, [we can prevail over terrorism],' Turkish president says
Turkish dailies on Monday reported the identity of the suicide bomber who blew himself up on Istanbul's Istiklal Street
At least 164 people have been held over unauthorised Nevruz demonstrations on Sunday in Istanbul
Turkish president expresses his sorrow over deaths of Israeli and Iranian citizens in Saturday's Istanbul suicide attack
Turkish president says Assad committed state terrorism and must be tried at the International Criminal Court
Turkish president also accuses European Union of being insincere in Turkey's accession process
Turkish FM also calls Belgium counterpart to convey Turkey’s objections to allowing PKK supporters pitch tents in Brussels near EU-Turkey summit venue
Turkish president also slams Belgian government for allowing PKK supporters in Brussels to pitch tents near EU-Turkey summit
Ankara public prosecutor asks Justice Ministry to request Interpol red notice for 47 PKK terrorists, including senior figures
'The attacker has been formally identified' as an ISIL member
Reports suggest ISIL extremists are suspected of being behind the latest attack which targeted Istiklal Caddesi
Victims of the attack are memorialized with carnations; defiant signs go up saying, 'We are not afraid'
Turkish ambassador to the US Serdar Kilic accepts the award on behalf of the Turkish government and people
NATO and EU states also express solidarity with Turkey in aftermath of attack on Istiklal Street
Of the 36 people injured in this mornings suicide bomb in Istiklal Street, 12 of them have been established to be foreigners.
Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu's remarks come during joint press conference with his Iranian counterpart Zarif in Istanbul
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
