2015-07~07
http://asiancorrespondent.com/134108/turkey-says-8-more-uighur-refugees-have-arrived-from-thailand/

Turkey says 8 more Uighur refugees have arrived from Thailand - Asian Correspondent
Riot police stand by as a group of Uighur protesters demonstrate outside the Thai embassy in Ankara, Turkey, last month. Pic: AP.
ANKARA, Turkey (AP) — Officials say Thailand has sent eight more ethnic Uighurs to Turkey, days after the Thais came under intense criticism for forcibly deporting more than 100 refugees back to China.
A Thai government official and a Turkish aid agency say four women and four children from the ethnic Muslim minority landed in Istanbul on Saturday. Their arrival raises the number of Uighurs Turkey has taken in from Thailand to 181.
(READ MORE: Thai consulate attacked in Turkey as Uighurs sent back to China (VIDEO))
The Thai government says the refugees who were sent to Turkey have Turkish documents, while the 109 Uighurs who were deported China had only Chinese documentation. Human rights groups fear the Uighurs face persecution back in China.
A Chinese state-run newspaper meanwhile has accused Turkey of helping an illegal migration by giving the Uighurs Turkish documentation.
Later, China said the 109 Uighurs who Thailand deported to China amid international criticism last week thad been on their way to Turkey, Syria or Iraq to take part in holy war.
On Thursday, Thai authorities deported the Uighurs, who had claimed to be Turkish, after determining they were Chinese.
(READ MORE: US slams Thailand’s ‘forced deportation’ of ethnic Uighurs to China)
China’s official Xinhua News Agency said the 109 illegal immigrants had been on their way “to join jihad,” and 13 of them had fled China after being implicated in terrorist activities. It said another two had escaped detention.
The repatriations were criticized by the U.N. refugee agency and rights groups.
The Uighurs are a Muslim minority in China’s far west. They’ve complained about cultural and religious suppression under Chinese rule.