2015-07~07
http://www.economist.com/news/europe/21657419-pious-sinophobia-wont-deflect-turkeys-strategic-dreams-bashing-and-wooing-china

Bashing and wooing China | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
“I AM not Chinese, I am Korean,” cried a frightened young woman as she was led away from demonstrators chanting anti-Chinese slogans near Istanbul’s Blue Mosque. Ultra-nationalists and Islamists were marching in solidarity with China’s Uighurs, who are Muslims and ethnic Turks, following reports of deadly clashes between students and police in Xinjiang province.
The incident is the latest in a spate of anti-Chinese protests egged on by media coverage of the plight of the Uighurs. Across Turkey, protesters have burned China’s flag and effigies of Mao Zedong. (Mao died nearly 40 years ago, but is better known than China’s current president.) Last week a Chinese restaurant in Istanbul was vandalised to cries of Allahu Akhbar. It later emerged that the “Happy China” was run by Turkish Muslims and that its chef was Uighur. “We don’t even serve booze,” griped the owner.
Turkey’s government echoes the protesters’ complaints, albeit more diplomatically. The foreign ministry said that news of Uighurs being “banned from fasting and fulfilling other acts of worship had been received with sadness by the Turkish public.” Devlet Bahceli, leader of the far-right Nationalist Action Party, asked crudely: “How does one distinguish between Chinese and Koreans? Both have slanted eyes.”
China denies that it has banned the fast, but it certainly does curb Uighur culture and it tells bureaucrats, teachers and students not to observe Ramadan.
Still, Turkey’s ruling Islamists want to remain on good terms with Beijing. Unfazed by objections from NATO partners, Turkey is mulling the purchase of Chinese long-range surface-to-air missiles. The Turkish government has denied Rebiya Kedeer, a campaigner for Uighur independence, a visa. Ironically though, Uighurs travel via Turkey to join Islamic State jihadists in Syria, as Firdevs Robinson, a Turkish blogger, observes.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey’s president, sees high strategic stakes. He says he would ditch efforts to join the European Union if Turkey were accepted by the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation (SCO), formed in 2001 by China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. The SCO “is better and more powerful, and we have common values with them,” Mr Erdogan declared.
If those values include squashing dissent, he has a point. At least 105 people have been indicted over the past year for alleged rudeness about the president. Mr Erdogan’s nervousness over a scandal implicating his son and sundry political allies has led to a shake-up in the judiciary and the police and to internet curbs.
He is expected to travel to Beijing on July 28th. And if this upsets any pious supporters, he can respond with a saying attributed to the Prophet Muhammad: “Seek knowledge, even in China.”
A panicked response to tumbling stocks casts doubt on the pace of reform
A deal between Greece and its creditors would be best. But if there has to be a Grexit, here is how...
What Europe should learn from its worst massacre since the second world war
An unheralded meeting in Africa is a way to get beyond sterile arguments about development
Everybody now knows how people can be persuaded to stop smoking. So all countries should be doing it
George Osborne’s political vision is brave, bold—and on many counts wrong
To stay in the euro zone, Greece’s prime minister will have to jettison almost every promise he...
Could a parallel currency within the euro zone be possible?
Do former industrial cities in the Midwest have a future?
America’s fastest-growing migrant group may challenge the country’s fraught race relations
The Big Apple’s top cop unveils a startlingly retro new plan
For many reasons, mainland politicians find the territory too hard a place to talk about
A recession may already have started. For the government, which is facing an election, the timing...
A perfect gent in the service of a perfect dictatorship
A pacifist nation inches closer to taking responsibility for its own security
A general election is called and an ex-president plots his comeback
China has relaxed its one-child policy. Yet parents are not rushing to have a second
How pushy Chinese parents get their kids into the best schools
Wild, ancient and oil-rich Turkana shows how fast the continent is changing
The jihadists have switched from holding towns to waging guerrilla war
Twelve months after the most recent war, the strip is still suffering
As its rival governments fail to come to terms, Libya sinks deeper into chaos
Two decades after the darkest moment in Europe’s recent past, consensus about what happened, and...
A party splits just as voters start to like some of its ideas
George Osborne is well on the way to balancing Britain’s books. Now, he hopes to reshape the...
The chancellor’s odds of succeeding David Cameron look ever better
The government wants the national broadcaster to do less, with less money
Cuts to pensions tax relief are a bad (but tempting) way to raise revenues
Two starkly different futures for the Liberal Democrats vie for supremacy
The Conservative chancellor has managed a politically tricky welfare cut. Millions may suffer
Even though it is clear how to get people to stop smoking, rates are still rising in many...
As the world grows richer and older, mental illness is becoming more common. John Prideaux considers...
Childhood conditions such as autism and ADHD are now widespread
The treatment of severe mental illness used to be barbaric. Sometimes it still is
As populations get older, more people will suffer from dementia. But the relationship is not...
Mapping the brain may eventually yield new treatments, but prevention is better than cure
The story of India’s biggest maker of towels, and their journey from cotton field to big-box...
Two African business giants go head-to-head over mobile telecoms and payments
A rethink is needed at the world’s second-largest jet-engine maker
A bid to merge two of the group’s companies raises wider questions
The sceptics exaggerate: in some industries Chinese firms are innovative
China learns that stocks are beyond the Communist Party’s control
The developed world has not found an answer to its debt problem
A new boss will have to figure out what Barclays’ main business is
Banks once dreaded rate rises. Are they right to look forward to them now?
The New York Stock Exchange goes down but markets don’t
Poor countries need to get better at raising tax, and multinational firms need to get better at...
Price-comparison websites should help lower prices. But left unchecked, they may raise them
A rendezvous with Pluto next week will end the trailblazing phase of the solar system’s...
Optical switching may abolish the side effects of cancer drugs
Graphene may usher in “radios” that do not use radio waves
The struggle to paint a fair portrait of Syria’s agony
Why Bashar Assad’s sect has largely stuck by the regime
Sir Nicholas Winton, rescuer of children, died on July 1st, aged 106
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more