2015-07~07
http://www.greaterkashmir.com/news/kashmir/story/191690.html

3 Uighurs of Xianjiang China await freedom from JK prison
On the other hand, the JK government has submitted No Objection Certificate (NOC) to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs for their repatriation.
When three Uighurs of Xinjiang China were arrested in Ladakh in 2013, little did they know that the “cruel laws” of borders would come between their freedom.
The trio - Adil, Abdul Khaliq and Abdul Salam of Thokia,(Shakay) Karghliq , Kashgar, Xingjian, China- were arrested by Army’s 5 Ladakh Scouts on June 12, 2013 near Sultan Chusu in Leh district of Ladakh. 
Despite completion of their imprisonment and Public Safety Act, the trio is presently under at district jail Leh as the Government of India is yet to take a call on their fate.
On the other hand, the JK government has submitted No Objection Certificate (NOC) to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs for their repatriation.
“MHA and Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) have to decide on the matter. They cannot be set free here or allowed to go to some other country. They would be handed over their native country through their embassy at Delhi once their repatriation process is finalized,” officials said, while defending their detention.
Curiously, the move to deport Uighurs to China by some countries has evoked sharp criticism from global rights bodies over their maltreatment there.
The Uighur population-who are mostly Muslims-had a long running discord with Beijing. When the trio was arrested by Army more than two years ago, the officials claim was that they were held from Sub Sector North Region of the Ladakh— without travel documents. While nothing much is known about their “intentional or inadvertent intrusion”, different theories- ranging from that they had run away from their homes due to starvation to head for Pakistan Administered Kashmir- were abuzz following their arrest.
After arresting them, the Army handed over them to Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the force guarding the Indo-China border. Later, they were handed over to police for prosecution.
The police registered an FIR bearing number 10/ 2013 under section 14 of Foreigners Act, 1946. And they were charge-sheeted in the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate Nobra on August 28, 2013.
The CJM sent them to one and a half-year imprisonment which they completed on January 11, this year.
 In the meanwhile, the state government took up the issue of their repatriation with Union Ministry of Home Affairs--- the nodal agency for repatriation of foreign prisoners. The state government initiated the process after its Criminal Investigation Department (CID) wing gave a green signal for it, saying they were not involved or wanted in any other case.
But with no word from the Government of India on their fate, the State government, on January 11, 2015, slapped Public Safety Act on them.
The trio completed their term under PSA yesterday, but the road to freedom seems to be ardous as JK is yet to get directions from GoI on the issue .
When contacted, DIG Prisons, Dr M S Lone told Greater Kashmir that they have completed their sentence and are presently detained under PSA. Lone said the foreign prisoners who complete their term are handed over to their respective countries through their embassies in New Delhi.
Repeated attempts to get JK government’s version proved futile as State Home Secretary R K Goyal did not respond to calls from this newspaper.
Delhi University lecturer S A R Gilani, who was arrested in a case of sedition last month, was released from Tihar jail today.