2015-07~07
http://www.newsx.com/world/6492-xinjiang-a-hot-bed-for-isis-activities

Xinjiang, a hot bed for ISIS activities | NewsX
ISIS is spreading its tentacles in most part of the world, especially in those areas where Muslim population is either marginalized or targeted by the local population. Such places are more vulnerable and fertile for ISIS activities as brain washing through social sites and luring through money here is not a tedious task. Young Muslims are easily trapped and motive of forming “Islamic State/ Caliphates” gets hope. 
China undoubtedly is suppressing Uighurs nationalism and imposing much restriction on them, but the fact is, terrorism in that area cannot be viewed with different eyes. In other way, it can be presumed that China’s atrocities on Uighurs are somewhere responsible for the augmented terrorist activities as well as Uighurs radicalization. 
According to the Chinese perception, outside religious thoughts — regularly proliferated over the Internet—has undermined the populace of Xinjiang, advancing fundamentalist Saudi Arabian Wahhabi Islam, while turning some of them towards terrorism in quest for separatist objective.
China doesn't trust the loyalty of these citizens and worries about whether they are Chinese first or Muslim first.
In 2001, China discharged an archive,  guaranteeing that "Eastern Turkistan" i.e. Xinjiang terrorists had prepared from Osama Bin Laden and the Taliban and afterward fought battles in Afghanistan, Chechnya and Uzbekistan, and came back to Xinjiang for terrorist and vicious exercises. Since then, China has much of the time pointed the finger at East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) for savagery in Xinjiang and somewhere else. The EITM also known as the Turkestan Islamic Party (TIP), Turkistan Islamic Movement (TIM), and other names are blamed to be an Islamic terrorist and separatist organization founded by Uighur militants in western China. As their solely goal is to get independence of East Turkestan (Xinjiang) from China. 
The government insists its terror problem is a foreign import, which Xinjiang is now on the radar of international jihad.
Xinjiang is a place where there are deserts and mountains, flanked by the Muslim terrains of Central Asia. Getting influenced from the neighbouring groups thriving in Pakistan and Central Asian region is but natural.
Earlier this year, Islamic State (IS) leader Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi criticized Beijing's policies in Xinjiang and asked all Chinese Muslims to pledge allegiance to him instead.(Also read: Why China is perturbed from Uighurs?)
On July 4, 2014, ISIS pioneer Abu Bakr al-Baghdadid adequately pronounced war on China by distributing a guide of its hopeful caliphate that undermined to possess China's Xinjiang, and named China first in a rundown of 20 nations that had seized Muslim rights. In the feature, Al-Baghdadi requested that Chinese Muslims argue faithfulness to him and referenced Xinjiang various times.
There are four primary purposes behind this. To begin with, ISIS has openly pronounced its regional desire towards China's Xinjiang area, which is progressively restive because of the strains between Uighurs and Han individuals. 
Secondly, the ISIS spread could undermine China's oil interests in Iraq and adjacent areas. 
Thirdly, ISIS's development and extension could energize household terrorist amasses inside of China and lead to more terrorist assaults against the Chinese government.
Fourthly, Xinjiang province has vast Oil and natural gas resources which is vied by ISIS
Lastly, the strategic location of Xinjiang must be luring ISIS; it opens corridors to Central Asia, Pakistan and India.
Spread of ISIS activities and joining of many Muslim youth throughout the world worries China as Xinjiang has already become the hot bed for such activities. On one hand, China is upgrading financially and on the other hand, it would drag down by different terrorist attacks and side engagement. This is on account of ISIS is as of now the best genuine security danger China confronts on the planet. Chinese Muslim Uighur separatists have been joining ISIS in Iraq and Syria. In the long run (if not as of now) these fighters will guide Uighur separatists for a crusade of terrorism in China. The Muslim Uighur who have joined ISIS are getting a tip top instruction in terrorism and battle. They are constructing a significant system of diverse Muslim fanatic gatherings who can supply them with weapons, and in addition logistical and ideological backing. 
On 12 July 2015, more than 100 ethnic Uighurs deported from Thailand to China who had been on their way to Turkey, Syria or Iraq to wage holy war, China’s official news agency has claimed.
A prominent Uighur scholar, Ilham Tohti stated before being jailed in January on a charge of inciting separatism: “If the government continues to exaggerate extremism in this way, and take inappropriate measures to fix it, it will only force people towards extremism”. It’s very much a fact and China should understand beforehand otherwise number of radicalized Uighurs youth would go on increasing. There is need of policy shift towards Uighurs. Uighurs needs to be provided employment and better life, education and freedom. You cannot expect a better country denying your citizen rights. 
Secondly, China old policy of non interference strategy requires a makeshift. To accomplish this objective, China should step by step relinquish its long held non-interference approach and upgrade global participation with other key players. By reinforcing universal participation, China could, over the long haul, wipe out the negative impact of ISIS on China's fretful Xinjiang district specifically and on different locales inside of China.
Albeit keeping up its customary non-intercession strategy in Mid Eastern clashes, China is now demonstrating strange backing for outside military activities against ISIS. Considerably more abnormal is China's open backing for US airstrikes in Iraq and Syria. 
As such, the Chinese strategy remained for all intents and purposes unaltered with respect to any dynamic mediation, yet this could change quickly once ISIS-prepared Uighur fanatics start to stream once again into China. At that point the Chinese government will discover itself engaging an altogether diverse component. 
When this happens, the world can hope to see China as significantly more eager to include itself in military intercession. This eagerness to utilize power will have significant ramifications on China's progressing regional debate with encompassing Asian countries. 
Keeping in mind the end goal to stem the stream of preparing, backing, and weaponry returning over its outskirts through the ISIS-prepared Uighur, China's to a great extent untested military will need to increase required battle experience, to be powerful in counter fear exercises. Also, time is as of now running out quick in China itself.
Foreign Minister Saudi Arabia Adel al-Jubeir, who is visiting India for a very important visit speaks to NewsX
Deputy Foreign Minister of Afghanistan Hekmat Khalil Karzai speaks to NewsX
India's monopoly to end as Nepal gets trade point in China