2015-07~07
http://www.newsfultoncounty.com/politics/news/165409-thai-consulate-in-turkey-no-hard-feelings-over-attack

Thai Consulate In Turkey: No Hard Feelings Over Attack | Fulton News
– Diplomat says ‘reckless’ actions following Thailand’s deportation of Uighur to China can’t be attributed to all of Turkey

ANKARA – The honorary consul general at Thailand’s diplomatic mission in Istanbul has expressed there are “no hard feelings” over a recent attack following reports that the Southeast Asian country had deported 109 Uighur to China.
Crowds had gathered outside the Thai consulate last week after Thailand sent Uighur to China amid reports of persecution. Some broke into the building, from where they smashed windows and lowered the Southeast Asian country’s flag, also breaking some devices.
Speaking to Anadolu Agency about the attack, Honorary Consul General Fahri Gokcek said he had “no hard feelings” toward his country.
“Some reckless people’s actions cannot be attributed to a whole nation,” he said late Wednesday. “These are temporary things. Turkey-Thailand relations will not be damaged with this attack.”
Gokcek assured that despite the occurrence of “unfortunate incidents,” “countries would not change their attitude toward each other over some people’s actions.”
He referred to longstanding bilateral and economic relations and visa-free access between Turkey and Thailand in stressing their “trust” toward one another.
“If there are human rights violations in China against Uighur Turks, then it is normal to protest it. I can support that. But you have to know your boundaries,” Gokcek underlined.
The Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed the attack in a statement on July 9, before sending out an alert to Thais living in Turkey warning of possible reprisals.
Thailand’s Embassy in Ankara released a statement the next day saying it had shut down its visa and consulate departments. 
“The consulate department will be re-opened and continue to serve when the conditions normalize,” it said.
Thailand had deported the Uighur after it said it had “clear evidence” they were Chinese nationals.
The Uighur were from a group of around 350 people who had been detained in Thai immigration centers for around two years.
Of the 350, around 180 – almost all women and children – have arrived in Turkey, 109 have been sent to China and around 60 are thought to remain in Thailand.
Turkish Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Tanju Bilgic said Wednesday that Turkey would host the 60 “if they come,” underlining that the country had never refused any guest “who had come to its door.”
The Uighur have been at the center of a diplomatic tug-of-war between Beijing and Ankara, with China identifying the Muslims as from northwestern Xinjiang, while Turkey has welcomed them as its own.
Many Turks believe that Uighur are among a number of Turkic tribes that inhabit the Xinjiang region, and consider it to be part of Central Asia, not China.
Uighur — who constitute around 45 percent of the population of Xinjiang – have accused China of carrying out repressive policies that restrain their religious, commercial and cultural activities.
  attack, China, Thailand Honorary Head Consul Refik Gokcek, Turkey , Uighur
Thai consulate in Turkey: No hard feelings over attack added by Selim ALTIN on July 16, 2015View all posts by Selim ALTIN →