2015-07~07
http://www.canberratimes.com.au/world/thailand-forcibly-sends-100-muslim-uighurs-back-to-china-and-an-uncertain-future-20150710-gi97oq.html

Thailand forcibly sends 100 Muslim Uighurs back to China and an uncertain future
Beijing: Thailand has sent about 100 ethnic Uighurs back to China, the country they fled, despite international warnings that the Uighurs could face harsh treatment in China and pleas that they be allowed to resettle elsewhere.
The Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees called the deportation of the Uighurs "a flagrant violation of international law".
Thai spokesman, Major General Weerachon Sukhonthapatipak, said the Uighurs who were deported on Thursday had been detained in Thailand since last year and that the government had thoroughly established their country of origin. He said another 50 Uighurs whose nationality was unclear remained in Thailand. About 170 Uighurs were previously found to be Turkish citizens and were sent to Turkey, despite lobbying from China, the general said.
Uighurs are a mainly Muslim ethnic minority who speak a language related to Turkish and are concentrated in Xinjiang, a vast region in far western China. They have chafed under Chinese rule, and violence between Uighurs and Han, the dominant ethnic group in China, has been rising in recent years. Han civilians and government offices have been attacked, and Chinese security forces have clamped down on Uighur towns. Uighurs also complain about Han migration to the region and increasingly severe policies aimed at undermining the practice of Islam.
Last year, Thai security forces detained hundreds of Uighurs who had successfully fled from China. They were caught in separate groups in different parts of Thailand. Chinese officials demanded that they all be sent back to China, but many of the Uighurs maintained that they were Turks.
The UN and human rights advocacy groups Thursday denounced Thailand's actions and said that the deportees to China were at risk of being severely punished for having fled the country or for other reasons.
But the Thai prime minister, General Prayuth Chan-ocha, insisted that "China has guaranteed their safety", and "if we send them back and there is a problem, that is not our fault".
Human Rights Watch called the news of the forced repatriations "very disturbing". Nicholas Bequelin, the East Asia director for Amnesty International, said that "deporting these people is a despicable act, and illegal under international law", and added, "if the Thai authorities go ahead with any further deportations, they will be putting the lives of many at risk".
The Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees said it had made "numerous interventions" with the Thai government on behalf of the detained Uighurs, and that it "was given assurances that the matter would be handled in accordance with international legal standards, and that the group would continue to receive protection".
The agency said 172 Uighur men and women were forcibly sent out of Thailand last week as part of a "third-country solution" - apparently referring to the people the Thai spokesman said had been sent to Turkey.
A spokeswoman for the Chinese foreign ministry, Hua Chunying, said China would "fairly handle" the Uighur returnees or "properly settle" them according to the law, and that Beijing had reached a consensus with other nations to crack down on illegal human trafficking.
General Prayuth defended the deportations, saying Thailand could not be expected to take sides in the ethnic tensions of western China, nor could it play host to illegal refugees indefinitely.
"Do you want us to feed them, and they can give birth here for three generations? For God's sake!" General Prayuth said, using a Thai word that usually refers to the offspring of livestock rather than human children.
In Turkey, the Thai Consulate in Istanbul on Thursday said it had been attacked by protesters who were angered by the decision. Video footage posted on YouTube showed some protesters waving the blue flag of East Turkestan, the name that many Uighurs use for their homeland in Xinjiang, while others smashed windows with bricks and wooden beams and broke into offices, hurling files into the street.
Hundreds of protesters gathered outside the Chinese consulate in Istanbul on Sunday to denounce China's treatment of the Uighur minority. Also over the weekend, a group of South Korean tourists were attacked in Istanbul in the apparent belief that they were Chinese. The Chinese Foreign Ministry then issued a travel warning to its citizens concerning Turkey.
Ms Hua said at a news conference in Beijing on Monday that China had no "ethnic problem" in its west. "Uighurs live and work in peace and contentment, and enjoy freedom of religion under the rules in the constitution," she said.
Nevertheless, China's treatment of its Turkic language-speaking Uighur minority is a sensitive issue in Turkey and has strained bilateral ties ahead of a planned visit to Beijing this month by President Tayyip Erdogan. The Turkish Foreign Ministry condemned the expulsion of the Uighurs to China, saying it violated international humanitarian law.
Mr Erdogan said he planned to raise the plight of the Uighurs during his trip to China, according to local media. He also criticised some recent attacks on Asian tourists in Turkey, saying the attackers betrayed Turkey's "most ancient tradition" of hospitality.
A Chinese restaurant, its owner Turkish and its cook ironically Uighur, was vandalised last week, while a group of Korean tourists was mistakenly attacked in Istanbul's historic Sultanahmet district, according to the Hurriyet newspaper.
Get notified when the big things happen. Sign up to our newsletter.
Low variable loan rate + no monthly or upfront fees
For life of the card plus low rate on balance transfers