2015-07~07
http://www.thestar.com.my/News/Regional/2015/07/11/Request-to-deport-all-Uighurs-rejected-Thailand-says-it-must-verify-their-nationalities-first/

Request to deport all Uighurs rejected - Regional | The Star Online
BANGKOK: Thailand says it had rejected a request from Beijing to deport all Uighur Muslims held in detention camps back to China, two days after the deportation of nearly 100 Uighurs sparked international criticism.
Beijing’s request was denied based on the grounds that the Uighurs’ nationalities had to be “verified” by Thai authorities first, Colonel Weerachon Sukhondhapatipak, deputy Thai government spokesman, told reporters yesterday.
“We did this according to international agreement and international law and keeping in mind human rights,” said Col Weerachon.
“This decision was difficult to make. It is not like all of a sudden China asks for Uighurs and we just give them back.
“China asked for all Uighur Muslims in Thailand to be sent back but we said we could not do it,” he said.
More than 170 Uighurs were identified as Turkish citizens and sent to Turkey from Thailand over the past month, said Col Weerachon, while nearly 100 were sent back to China.
Thailand’s decision to deport nearly 100 Uighurs from several immigration detention centres in Bangkok late on Wednesday was condemned by the United States and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) which strongly urged China to ensure proper treatment of the Uighurs.
The deportation of the Uighurs has sparked protests in Turkey. Police used tear gas on Thursday to disperse about 100 protesters at the Chinese Embassy in the capital Ankara after they knocked down a barricade and protesters attacked Thailand’s honorary consulate in Istanbul late Wednesday, smashing windows and breaking in.
Yesterday, the Global Times, an influential tabloid published by China’s ruling Communist Party’s official newspaper, said the Ministry of Public Security confirmed that police “successfully repatriated” more than 100 people from Thailand.
The newspaper said the people were mostly from the Xinjiang region.
“Many among them planned to reach Turkey through South-East Asian countries and then head to Syria and Iraq to participate in terrorist groups,” the newspaper said. — Reuters

Singaporean jailed 10 months for attacking friend with a chopper

Copyright Â© 1995- Star Media Group Berhad (ROC 10894D)(Formerly known as Star Publications (Malaysia) Berhad)