2015-07~07
http://www.shanghaidaily.com/national/Former-prison-chief-under-investigation-for-corruption/shdaily.shtml

Former prison chief under investigation for corruption | Shanghai Daily
Follow us @  | Shanghai Call Center: 962288 |  Mobile Version  |  THU, APR 18, 2013
A DEPUTY regional security chief and former head of the prison system in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region is under investigation for suspected corruption, the government said yesterday.
Xie Hui is being investigated for "suspected serious breaches in discipline," the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection said in a statement. It gave no other details.
Xie's official resume, included in the watchdog's statement, shows he spent his entire career working in Xinjiang, including in the old labor camp system, which used penal labor as punishment.
He ran the Xinjiang prison system from 2010 until his promotion in 2013 to be a vice head of the Xinjiang public security bureau.
President Xi Jinping has pushed a sweeping crackdown on corruption since taking power two years ago.
Last year, prosecutors begun an investigation into the former Party chief of the Xinjiang Police College, which trains public security officials, for suspected abuse of power and corruption.
Also last year, the ethnic Uygur mayor of Hotan, a major city in the south of Xinjiang, was put under investigation for corruption.
Kindly remind you that you have reached your weekly limit of 20 free stories.
Kindly remind you that your 1-week free trial has expired. Thank you for your interest in our products.
To continue using full functionality of our site, please subscribe below.

Education, 
 Entertainment and culture, Environment,
 Expat community, 
 Health and science, Society, 
 In-depth, Services...

Art and culture, 
 Community, Education, 
 Animal planet, Travel...

Book, City Scene,
 Film, Home and design,
 Now and Then, Style,
 Technology, The Week...

 Copyright © 1999- Shanghai Daily. All rights reserved.Preferably
 viewed with Internet Explorer 8 or newer browsers.
