2015-07~07
http://www.shanghaidaily.com/world/Repatriation-of-100-Uygurs-from-Thailand-normal/shdaily.shtml

Repatriation of 100 Uygurs from Thailand ‘normal’ | Shanghai Daily
Follow us @  | Shanghai Call Center: 962288 |  Mobile Version  |  THU, APR 18, 2013
THAILAND’S repatriation of more than 100 Uygurs to China was normal cooperation between countries as well as an international obligation, China said yesterday.
“These repatriated Chinese minority citizens are illegal immigrants who have traveled to and stayed in Thailand through various channels,” foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a regular press briefing.
Illegal immigration using counterfeit passports violates the law and disrupts the normal international order of exit and entry, she said.
The fate of some 400 Uygurs had been shrouded in uncertainty since March 2014 when they were detained for illegal entry while Thai authorities verified their nationalities amid a tussle between Turkey and China over where they should be moved.
Around 100 were deported to China on Wednesday, while an earlier group of 172 women and children had been sent to Turkey in late June.
The latest repatriations sparked protests from countries including the United States and Turkey and raised concern from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
Hua said some foreign governments and forces had ignored the facts and incorrectly termed these illegal immigrants as “refugees,” criticizing the law-enforcement cooperation between China and Thailand and politicizing the issue.
“These serve as connivance in illegal immigration and smuggling and a violation of relevant international treaties and the law, which harm global joint efforts in combating illegal immigration. We will never accept it,” Hua said.
She condemned recent violence against Chinese and Thai citizens and organizations in Turkey following the repatriation.
“We highly value the Turkish government’s promise to never allow anyone to engage in activities that sabotage China’s interests on its territory, and we urge Turkey to take effective measures to protect the security and legitimate rights of embassies and personnel of China and other related countries,” Hua said.
“We strongly protest some forces’ attempts to interfere in China’s internal affairs via ethnic and religious issues and to disrupt China’s security and stability,” she added. “These attempts are doomed to failure.”
The temporary closure of the embassy in Ankara and consulate in Istanbul came after anti-Chinese demonstrators stormed the latter.
Thai government spokesman Werachon Sukhondhapatipak told reporters in Bangkok that the situation was currently under control and no Thai nationals had been affected.
Responding to criticism over the China deportations, Werachon said that high-level Thai officials would travel to the country next week to follow up on the returned group.
Thai Premier Prayut Chan-O-Cha defended the legal status of the repatriations because China had “guaranteed their safety.”
“If found innocent they will be released,” he told reporters.
On Thursday, a Turkish news agency said an Asian tourist had been attacked by pro-Uygur protesters in Ankara as they thought she was Chinese.
Kindly remind you that you have reached your weekly limit of 20 free stories.
Kindly remind you that your 1-week free trial has expired. Thank you for your interest in our products.
To continue using full functionality of our site, please subscribe below.

Education, 
 Entertainment and culture, Environment,
 Expat community, 
 Health and science, Society, 
 In-depth, Services...

Art and culture, 
 Community, Education, 
 Animal planet, Travel...

Book, City Scene,
 Film, Home and design,
 Now and Then, Style,
 Technology, The Week...

 Copyright © 1999- Shanghai Daily. All rights reserved.Preferably
 viewed with Internet Explorer 8 or newer browsers.
