2015-07~07
http://www.fmprc.gov.cn/mfa_eng/xwfw_665399/s2510_665401/t1280102.shtml

Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Hua Chunying's Regular Press Conference on July 9, 2015
Q：In a statement, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein expressed concern about a new national security law recently adopted in China, saying that the law is too wide-ranging and some terms are vaguely defined which will give the Chinese government more space to limit rights and freedoms of the citizens and strictly control the civil society. What is your response?
A: I have noted the report. We are strongly dissatisfied with and opposed to the so-called statement of the UN High Commissioner which makes groundless accusations against China’s normal legislative action. This not only constitutes an interference in China’s domestic affairs, but also reveals the amateurishness of itself.
The newly adopted national security law is a fundamental law in China’s national security field. It is underpinned by a comprehensive concept of national security, and covers all areas of it. Many of the provisions in principle aim to specify the basic purposes and objectives of maintaining national security, set up the mechanism and institution to safeguard national security, address the universal and prominent problems faced by national security, and improve the building of the rule of law in national security field. We will formulate laws and regulations in relevant areas and other facilitating rules to safeguard national security, and make relevant stipulations more feasible.
I’d like to underscore that a highlight of the national security law is putting people’s security first and the commitment to serving and depending on the people. The law puts at its very beginning that it will “protect the fundamental interests of the people” in article 1, article 7 underlines “respecting and safeguarding human rights, and protecting the rights and freedoms of the citizens in accordance with the law”, and relevant provisions also request the government to maintain the safety and legitimate rights and interests of citizens and organizations. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights’ speculation that the law might limit rights and freedoms of citizens is utterly baseless and unjustified.
Q: The United Nations recently released the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Report 2015. It is commented that global achievements in extreme poverty eradication should be mostly attributed to China. What is China's comment? What contribution has China made in eradicating extreme poverty？
A: The MDGs have contributed tremendously to global development. Through joint efforts by all parties over the past 15 years, positive progress has been made in poverty eradication, universal education, prevention and treatment of epidemics such as malaria and tuberculosis, access to clean drinking water, improvement of living conditions in slums and some other areas .China is an active participator and contributor to the MDGs, with most of the goals already achieved. China had lifted 433 million people out of poverty from 1990 to 2011, achieving its goal of poverty reduction five years ahead of schedule. China has also supported other developing countries in realizing the MDGs under the framework of South-South Cooperation. China's progress in reaching the MDGs will be published by the Chinese government and the UN in the coming days.
The UN will hold a development summit in September to review the MDGs and adopt a Post-2015 Development Agenda. To create a sound external environment for developing countries and achieve common and sustainable development of mankind, all parties should seize the opportunity to set more comprehensive, balanced and ambitious development goals and improve development partnerships. China is ready to work with all parties taking the post-2015 development agenda as a new start, to promote sustained economic growth, social equity and justice, sustainable development of the environment and contribute to the common development of mankind.
Q: According to media report, it has been confirmed by Thailand that more than 100 illegal Uyghur immigrants were deported back to China from Thailand. Could you confirm that? What punishment will these Uyghurs receive?
A: Illegal immigration disrupts normal international order of exit and entry and undermines the common interests of the international community. A consensus has already been reached by the international community on combating illegal immigration. China is committed to strengthening international cooperation to safeguard international and regional security and stability.
China's policies on illegal emigrants are clear and consistent. Those charged with serious criminal offences will be brought to justice, while those not charged with criminal offences or only with minor offences will be properly settled.
Q: Yesterday, Chinese President Xi Jinping met with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Ufa. Is there any update on this meeting? Some Indian official said after the meeting that Prime Minister Modi expressed concerns about the technical hold placed by China on India's move to ask the UNSC 1267 committee to review Pakistan’s release on bail of Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, the suspect of the Mumbai terrorist attacks. What's your comment on this?
A: Yesterday, President Xi Jinping met with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Ufa. Relevant information has already been released. Both leaders commented positively on the sound momentum of growth of bilateral relations and further identified the key areas and future direction to enhance bilateral cooperation.
President Xi Jinping noted that in Xi'an last May, he and Prime Minister Modi reached important consensus on enriching the bilateral strategic partnership and forging a closer partnership for development. This sends a positive signal of China-India cooperation and common development to our two peoples as well as the international community. With concerted efforts by both sides, the consensus reached between the two leaders are now being translated into steady progress in bilateral cooperation on legislative institutions, railways, industrial parks and smart cities. Our two sides should make joint efforts to maintain the sound momentum of growth for bilateral relations and break new ground in pursuing win-win cooperation. Two sides should also continue to maintain frequent high-level exchanges, enhance strategic communication on all levels, complete feasibility studies on major cooperation projects as planned and develop flagship programs for China-India cooperation. Efforts shall also be made to implement the China-India cultural exchange program, step up think-tank, media and local cooperation, properly manage the differences and join hands to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas. China and India should work together to push forward the development of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), the BRICS New Development Bank (NDB) and the Bangladesh-China-India-Myanmar Economic Corridor (BCIM), and explore ways to effectively connect China's Belt and Road initiatives with India's relevant development plans, in a bid to achieve mutually beneficial cooperation and common development.
Prime Minister Modi pointed out that now China and India enjoy sound growth of bilateral relations and enhanced mutual trust. High-level officials from two sides maintain close communication. Bilateral trade and economic cooperation continue to deepen in various areas as science and technology, outer space and infrastructure. India welcomes investment by more Chinese enterprises and stands ready to enhance strategic communication and coordination to properly handle the boundary question and other differences between the two countries.
As for your specific question, I’d like to say that China opposes terrorism of all forms, supports the central coordinating role of the UN in global efforts against terrorism, and actively participates in international anti-terrorist cooperation. As a permanent member of the UN Security Council, China always addresses issues related with the UNSC 1267 Committee based on facts with a fair and objective position. China has maintained close communication with all parties concerned, including India, on issues related with the UNSC 1267 Committee.
Q: According to media reports, Belarus will become an observer state of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). What’s China’s comment?
A: With constant progress in cooperation in various fields, the SCO is gaining greater international influence and attention. A growing number of countries, regional and international organizations show their willingness to deepen cooperation with the SCO. We welcome interested and qualified countries to further step up cooperation with the SCO.
We appreciate Belarus's willingness to strengthen cooperation with the SCO. China stands ready, along with other member states, to maintain communication with relevant countries, and actively review the applications in accordance with relevant terms of the SCO by consensus.