2015-07~07
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/56611/20150706/china-s-drone-takes-flight-disaster-stricken-xinjiang.htm

China’s Drone Takes Flight on Disaster Stricken Xinjiang : Tech : Chinatopix
China’s air force deployed its first unmanned aircraft to help monitor the damage in the Xinjiang quake. (Photo : Reuters)
China's air force deployed its first unmanned aircraft to help monitor the damage in the Xinjiang quake.
According to Technology News China, this will be the first time China's drone flies for a task like this. In their effort to modernize their air force developments, China, known to have the largest military personnel, embarks on creating drones that will be used locally and marketed internationally.
In a statement made in the defense ministry website, the lone drone was launched immediately after the quake hit Xinjiang and has been very effective in getting information such as the place where rescues are needed as well as relief supplies.
In its 100 minutes of surveillance over the disaster zone, the Chinese drone was able to send important information about the state of the ground affected. The southern part of Xinjiang is known to be the mainland of Muslim Uighir who have declared the place as their own home. The deployment of the drone over the place also gave way of the idea that the drones have been flown over the place in the past years, in order to perform surveillance on Islamic militants who have been accused of starting violence in the place.
In a report by Voice of America, communication lines have been cut and an airport was forced to stop operating because of the quake. The real challenge of not being able to reach the outside world has been covered by the drones that performed the much needed monitoring. A recent report said that at least 3,000 homes were destroyed and families were displaced. Among others, 48 were known to have suffered injuries and at least six were confirmed dead. At least 1,000 tents were distributed by the ministry of civil affairs.
The Chinese air force continues to develop their motivational aircrafts in order to strengthen their domestic security protection as well as their aim to explore international market by providing Chinese made drones.
The "ambitious drone program," currently developed by China, however, is concentrated on exporting locally made drones and not for any combat purposes.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent rumors have emerged that Sacramento Kings All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins could finally move to the Los Angeles Lakers in the summer following his recent comments about the Hollywood squad’s young players after the two team’s recent game. read more