2015-07~07
http://www.catholic.org/news/national/story.php?id=61697

Remaining U.S. troops in Afghanistan 'feel forgotten' - U.s. - News - Catholic Online
A total of 10,000 American troops remain in Afghanistan. These troops believe they have been forgotten by the Obama administration, as the US Government shifts its attention to ISIS.
Several US Troops felt abandoned and forgotten by the US government
Keywords: US Troops, US Troops in Afghanistan, Afghanistan War, US Government, Terrorism
MUNTINLUPA, PHILIPPINES (Catholic Online) - The US Troops, 10,000 men and women left in Afghanistan, feel abandoned by the US government. As 4th of July draws near, these men are feeling neglected by the government, according to a US intelligence officer as reported by G2 Bulletin.
FBI insiders are spreading the word, Hillary Clinton deliberately broke the law and charges are warranted. However, there is little confidence the Obama administration will actually indict her. LOS ANGELES, CA (California Network) - Hillary Clinton broke the law, ... continue reading
Last year, Bishop Thomas J Omsted of the Diocese of Phoenix, Arizona, issued an extraordinary apostolic exhortation entitled Into the Breach which begins with these words - I
 begin this letter with a clarion call and clear charge to you, my sons 
and brothers in ... continue reading
Palm/ Passion Sunday: Make This Holy Week a Deep Encounter With Jesus Christ!During
 this week called Holy, the Lord Jesus is extending His saving Hand to 
each one of us anew. The timeless one has broken into time and now 
transforms it from within. The question is ... continue reading
I think I stand with the Apostle to Ireland by rejecting the use of the 
term, "post-Christian" as it relates to the West of this hour. He did not write with fear concerning the Druids who occupied Ireland - and they had a culture quite hostile 
to Christianity also! ... continue reading
A new movement called "Democracy Spring" is forming and it could have an impact on the upcoming presidential election and thereafter. The movement, inspired by various socialist groups, aims to disrupt public events and engage in civil disobedience to gain attention. ... continue reading
In many schools across the nation, students who forgot to wear green on March 17 received a nasty pinch from friends. St. Patrick's Day evolved from a Catholic holiday to honor the patron saint of Ireland, Saint Patrick, to a secular holiday celebrating Ireland and ... continue reading
I have Irish ancestry, and was raised in the Dorchester section of 
Boston, Massachusetts, an irish enclave. I am 60 years old, so I can remember the remnants
 of the Christian influence on the celebration. I remember when the 
revelry had roots and was not simply ... continue reading
You've heard of the Arab Spring, and now America is about to get its own version. Known as "Democracy Spring" the movement is being sponsored by socialists with the aim of widespread civil disobedience. The organization is presently known for shutting down Trump ... continue reading
President Obama has chosen a Washington judge to assume the seat formerly occupied by Antonin Scalia. Obama is expected to announce Merrick Garland as his pick. Garland has been previously considered by Obama, but never chosen for the Supreme Court. Republicans are ... continue reading
He was raised in an age much like our own, gripped by a "culture of death" and filled with a spirit of lawlessness. CHESAPEAKE, VA. (Catholic Online) - He was raised in a Christian home in Britain toward the end of the fourth century. This was an age much like our ... continue reading
Stay up to date with the latest news, information, and special offers
Where do the palms for Palm Sunday come from? Read More
Bet you didn't know these 10 things about St. Patrick and Ireland! Read More
TRENDING: Obama expected to protect Clinton from prosecution, Comey ... Read More
Pope Francis wants to change two major Catholic laws he sees as ... Read More
Reading 1, Isaiah 42:1-7
1 Here is my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom my soul ... Read More
Psalm, Psalms 27:1, 2, 3, 13-14
1 [Of David] Yahweh is my light and my salvation, whom should I fear? ... Read More
Gospel, John 12:1-11
1 Six days before the Passover, Jesus went to Bethany, where Lazarus was, ... Read More
St. Enda March 21: Legend has him an Irishman noted for his military ... Read More
Copyright 2016 Catholic Online. All materials contained on this site, whether written, audible or visual are the exclusive property of Catholic Online and are protected under U.S. and International copyright laws, © Copyright 2016 Catholic Online. Any unauthorized use, without prior written consent of Catholic Online is strictly forbidden and prohibited.
Sign up to receive your FREE Catholic Online newsletters and special offers by email.