2015-07~07
http://www.4-traders.com/TURK-HAVA-YOLLARI-AO-6495582/news/Turk-Hava-Yollari-AO--President-Erdo287ans-visit-to-China-20776442/

Turk Hava Yollari AO : President Erdoğan's visit to China | 4-Traders
İSTANBUL (CİHAN)- President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, who was officially invited by Chinese President Xi Jinping, has begun his tour of China.
Reports have indicated that Erdoğan would visit Beijing and Seoul on July 28 and Aug. 1. His visit to Korea was postponed and replaced by a visit to Jakarta from July 30 to Aug. 2. More than 100 businessmen, active in such fields as energy, finance, construction, mining, logistics, defense, textiles, chemicals and electronics, under the sponsorship of the Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK), joined Erdoğan on the tour.
Reports in Turkish media that Erdoğan would attract attention to the persecution of the Uyghur Turks are not true. Even if the parties discuss the status of the Uyghur people in bilateral meetings, Erdoğan's actual goal is to visit G20 countries before the G20 summit in Turkey in the fall. The Turkey-China Business Forum will convene in Beijing on July 30, with the participation of Erdoğan, Xi, Turkish Economy Minister Nihat Zeybekçi, Chinese Economy Minister Gao Hucheng and more than 400 Turkish and Chinese businesspeople.
Erdoğan first visited China in April 2012, starting in the Uyghur Autonomous Region, and was the first Turkish prime minister to visit Ürümqi, the capital city of the region. Former President Abdullah Gül visited China in 2009, as did Republican People's Party (CHP) leader Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu in 2013. Former President Turgut Özal's visit to China in 1986 was a turning point, after which Turkish Airlines (THY) began sending flights to Hong Kong and Shanghai. An organized industrial zone was established in Ürümqi for Turkish firms.
There is no shared border between Turkey and China, and the countries have different industrial and commercial tendencies and priorities. It has been common historical and ethnic ties that have bound the two countries together. China may help Turkey, owing to its huge investment capacity and technology. Common denominators should be highlighted in bilateral relations, so that differences do not deteriorate relations and cause tension.China has a population of 1.5 billion. The average number of people living in a city is 7 million. Those who are rich by global standards make up 10 percent of the total population. Under new legislation, Chinese citizens are permitted to have two kids if both parents were only children. Nearly 300 million people attain European standards in economic terms.Turkey wants to sell more products to this segment of society and increase the volume of bilateral trade from $2.8 billion to $10 billion. Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu noted that he hopes to see an increase in the volume of bilateral trade to $50 billion by 2015 and to $100 billion by 2020. Currently, the volume of bilateral trade is $28 billion; Turkey imports products worth $25 billion, but the gap between exports and imports is huge. China is ranked first in Turkey's trade deficit standing, and is no longer a country from which cheap products would be purchased.Turkey exports $1 billion in boron, but also sells marble, chromite, copper, raw materials and certain food products. Turkey wants to sell olive oil and other processed food products as well, but this still would not help bridge the gap. Turkish brands Arçelik and Beko sell their products to China, and Kığılı has opened a nice store near the Turkish consulate building in Guangzhou. Designer brands are popular in China as well. A designer purse produced for $100 in China is sold for $5,000 in the same country. There is a market in China for high-quality Turkish garments, and a Turkish firm may sell a wooden chair for $400 to the Chinese upper class.Turkey wants to increase the amount of exports to China by cooperation and partnership in strategic fields such as finance, energy and defense. A Turkish businessman must stop focusing on domestic trade, and instead sell products to the entire world. Chinese corporations are unable to effectively perform professional marketing of their products, as compared to American and EU-based firms, which are experts in marketing. Turkey and China are able to form a marketing network through cooperation; for instance, McDonald's had 2,700 and Burger King had 69 stores in China. In other words, Burger King was unsuccessful there. Burger King, in response, used their Turkish partner to become influential in China. The Kurdoğlu company was a good choice because they have been fairly successful in Turkish markets.
There is no stability in Vietnam, Bangladesh, Thailand, or in the Far East. Last year, a coup was staged in Thailand, whereas China is stable and labor there is cheap. The business world experiences no problems at all. For this reason, China is a center of attraction. Turks have just recognized the benefit of working with China and have realized what opportunities it can provide. Turkey has commercial attaches in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. While 74 states have consulates in Shanghai, Turkey only opened a consulate there in 1997.
So far, five consuls have served there. There are nearly 1,500 Turkish people in Shanghai. Turkey also opened consulates in Hong Kong and Guangzhou; this move contributed to the enhancement of trade. Prime Minister Davutoğlu said: "China is like a continent for us; we want to open other consulates in other provinces. The Chinese may also increase the number of their diplomatic missions." It would be useful if more missions were opened in both countries.
Visits by Gül and then-Prime Minister Erdoğan were welcomed in China. But Turkey failed to make further moves. The Turks made short-term decisions and expected short-run outcomes. There is an angel financing period in the world, and short-term trade is no longer popular. The Turks must create infrastructure in China.Turkey's embassy in Beijing addresses the Uyghur issue. China is acting carefully in this matter, and the Uyghur issue should not be considered an issue that affects bilateral relations.
Nearly 200,000 Chinese visitors travel to Turkey every year. Most Chinese tourists spend a few days in İstanbul before touring Europe. Many travel to Turkey and Europe after October 1, National Day. Davutoğlu has proposed more frequent flights between Turkey and China, and has also called for Turkish Airlines to fly to Kashgar and Ürümqi. Currently, Turkish Airlines flies to Beijing, Shanghai and Guanghou two times a week, but this is not sufficient. There is also a demand for direct flights from China to Antalya.China opened an embassy in Ankara in 1971, which is need of repair. Chinese authorities allowed Turkey to open a chief consulate in Guangzhou, in exchange for Ankara giving up additional land for diplomatic use. China plans to build its new embassy on 17,000 square meters of land in Oran, Ankara by 2017.
HASAN KANBOLAT (Cihan/Today's Zaman) CİHAN
(c) 2015 Cihan News Agency. All right reserved. Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info)., source Middle East & North African Newspapers