2015-07~07
http://www.thestar.com.my/News/Regional/2015/07/21/China-nabs-would-be-bomber/

China nabs would-be bomber - Regional | The Star Online
BEIJING: China has arrested a member of its mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority who planned a bomb attack after ­returning from a training camp in Syria, the state media said.
State broadcaster CCTV’s report yesterday was based on a prison confession from the man it ­identified as “Aikebaier”, which an Uighur rights group dismissed as “propaganda”.
CCTV said that Aikebaier had travelled to Syria via Turkey sometime after 2013 and received “bomb-making training”.
It was not clear when he returned to China, but he was shown in a prison vest with a shaved head, stating that he planned an explosive attack on a shopping centre in the northern city of Shijiazhuang.
“I would like to say to my mother: please forgive me,” he said, ­breaking into tears.
The report said the man had been “caught”, but gave no details of when he was arrested, or what charges he faces.
Uighurs speak a Turkic language and many complain of religious and cultural discrimination in Xinjiang, their homeland in north-western China, which has seen escalating violence in recent years.
Beijing blames the unrest on terrorist groups seeking independence for the region, although many analysts are sceptical.
Chinese state-run media have repeatedly cited unnamed sources linking Uighurs to militant violence in the Middle East, without giving evidence.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for exiled group the World Uighur Congress, slammed the CCTV report, implying that the authorities had used coercion.
“For the sake of their family’s safety, arrested Uighurs have no other choice than to become ­propaganda tools for the Chinese government,” he said in a recent statement.
A number of Uighurs have attempted to flee China in recent years, in what rights groups say is an attempt to escape repression.
Thailand had ­deported some 100 Uighurs to China this month, in a move which sparked protests in Turkey.
The move was also ­condemned by the United Nations­­ ­refugee agency.
Chinese state media said that an unspecified number of those deported were travelling to “take part in militant activities”. — AFP

China orders probe after polluting factory fined a meagre RM377


Singaporean jailed 10 months for attacking friend with a chopper


From Sydney to New York, landmarks go dark for Earth Hour

Copyright Â© 1995- Star Media Group Berhad (ROC 10894D)(Formerly known as Star Publications (Malaysia) Berhad)