2015-07~07
http://www.aa.com.tr/en/news/553805--president-urges-turks-not-to-be-riled-by-poor-reporting

President urges Turks not to be riled by poor reporting
Says allegations of oppression against Muslim minorities had 'prompted displays of sensitivity' among countrymen.
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has urged Turkish nationals not to be easily provoked by "false media reports," saying that such actions as attacks on foreign missions do not help resolve the Uighur issue.
In the wake of anti-China protests and attacks on Thailand's diplomatic mission in Istanbul, he said late Thursday that allegations of oppression against the Muslim minority had “prompted displays of sensitivity."
China has been accused of operating a ban on Muslims fasting during the holy month of Ramadan, while Thailand deported around 100 Uighur to China on Thursday, amid reports of persecution.
Such allegations have been published as fact in Turkish media with little regard for sourcing or attribution.
"The provocative incidents in Istanbul will not help or solve the problems of our Uighur brothers and it is not compatible with our hospitality,” he told ambassadors at an Iftar (fast-breaking) dinner.
“I call on our people to be careful and to not be easily provoked."
The president added that “some false video footages and stories” about alleged restrictions in China’s Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region had received widespread media attention and “rendered the issue open for exploitation,” leading to “small but unwanted protests."
"Turkey stands by Uighur Turks in China, just like all of its kin and brothers," he said, adding that the country would continue expressing concern about “the problems of our brothers living in Uighur Autonomous Region at a high level.”
He hinted at a probable visit to China at the end of this month.
Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu has also condemned the recent attacks, saying Friday: “whatever the dispute is, it cannot be reflected onto diplomatic missions.”
“Ambassadors, diplomatic representatives and tourists are our beloved guests,” he told media in Istanbul. 
In the past month, Turkey's Foreign Ministry had expressed "deep concern" to China about media reports that Beijing had instilled a fasting ban on segments of its Uighur Muslim population.
China's Foreign Ministry, meanwhile, has sought to underline that Beijing does not discriminate against its Muslim population, Hua Chunying telling reporters that Beijing had absolutely no issue with Uighur Turks, and that "foreign media" had got it wrong.
Davutoglu said Friday that Turkey's dialogue mechanisms with both China and Thailand remained open as avenues through which to voice the country’s stance and hold meetings.
Meanwhile, the Istanbul-based International Refugee Rights Association released a statement late Thursday urging the international community to call for the “rescue” of the around 50 Uighur believed to still be detained in Thailand.
"As if the tens of oppression they experienced were not enough, just because they tried to escape this oppression, the deported Uighur Turks will be tried in a non-independent court and be subject to penalties that could end their right to life," it said.