2015-07~07
http://www.dailysabah.com/diplomacy/2015/07/01/173-uighurs-kept-under-detention-by-thailand-arrive-in-turkey

173 Uighurs kept under detention by Thailand arrive in Turkey - Daily Sabah

 After months of diplomatic negotiations with Thailand, Turkey has brought over 150 Uighur Turks who were kept under detention by the Thai government.

According to reports, a group consisting of 173 Uighurs, including women and children arrived in Turkey on Tuesday night. The group was greeted by Seyit Tümtürk, the e vice president of the World Uyghur Congress and other officials. 

Güngör Yavuzarslan, who is the President of the International Journalists Association of Turkish-Speaking Countries praised the initiative and said Turkey "has achieved success in yet another international diplomacy affair" by saving the Uighurs who were kept under detention by the Thai government.

On June 30, Turkey's Foreign Ministry said it expressed "deep concern" to China about reports that the country has instilled a fasting ban on segments of its Uighur Muslim population during the holy Muslim month of Ramadan.

Back in November, the Turkish government had taken the necessary steps to bring nearly 300 Uighurs to Turkey, who were found at a human smuggling camp in Thailand a few months ago.

In January, Turkey has accepted over 500 Uighur Turks, who sought refuge in the country.

East Turkistan, known as the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, is located in northwest China. Uighurs have long suffered from human rights abuses, with 26.3 million people being killed between 1949 and 1965 and 8.7 million people since 1965. 

The Uighurs have consistently expressed that they appreciate Turkey's efforts to shelter those in Thailand and many have stated that if those who fled Xinjiang get deported to China, they could all face death sentences. 

The Chinese government is accused of subjecting them to harsh restrictions due to their Muslim faith, and many of their leaders have been imprisoned by the government. 
