2015-07~07
http://www.shanghaidaily.com/national/2-terror-suspects-detained-in-east-China/shdaily.shtml

2 terror suspects detained in east China | Shanghai Daily
Follow us @  | Shanghai Call Center: 962288 |  Mobile Version  |  THU, APR 18, 2013
TWO men were detained in east China’s Zhejiang Province yesterday on suspicion of having links to a terrorist group.
The arrests came after armed police raided a property in Wenzhou at 5am. The operation also netted several explosive devices and a number of knives, according to the city government.
Officers in Wenzhou were alerted to the possible threat by their colleagues in the provincial police department.
The case is the third of its kind in China in 11 days.
On July 13, three alleged terrorists were shot dead and a fourth was injured by police in Shenyang, capital of northeast China’s Liaoning Province.
The four suspects, all natives of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, were reported to be carrying knives at the time of the incident and were issued with a warning before officiers opened fire, police said at the time.
Xinjiang has seen sporadic violence in recent years, with police blaming it on terror groups like the East Turkestan Islamic Movement.
On Monday, a man from Xinjiang was detained on suspicion of planning to blow up a shopping mall in Shijiazhuang, north China’s Hebei Province.
In related news, Thailand on July 9 repatriated 109 illegal Chinese immigrants, whom the Ministry of Public Security said were likely en route to Turkey, Syria or Iraq to engage in jihadist activities.
Most of them were Uygurs from Xinjiang who had been radicalized by material released by the ETIM and the World Uygur Congress, the ministry said.
In March last year, 31 people were killed and 141 were injured in a terrorist attack on a railway station in Kunming, capital of southwest China’s Yunnan Province.
Kindly remind you that you have reached your weekly limit of 20 free stories.
Kindly remind you that your 1-week free trial has expired. Thank you for your interest in our products.
To continue using full functionality of our site, please subscribe below.

Education, 
 Entertainment and culture, Environment,
 Expat community, 
 Health and science, Society, 
 In-depth, Services...

Art and culture, 
 Community, Education, 
 Animal planet, Travel...

Book, City Scene,
 Film, Home and design,
 Now and Then, Style,
 Technology, The Week...

 Copyright © 1999- Shanghai Daily. All rights reserved.Preferably
 viewed with Internet Explorer 8 or newer browsers.
