2015-07~07
http://www.theage.com.au/world/china-accuses-detained-tourists-of-watching-terrorist-propaganda-20150716-gidcqc

China accuses detained tourists of watching terrorist propaganda
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News, My Clippings, My Comments and user settings.
Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.

 South Africa Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa shakes hands with Chinese Premier Li Keqiang in Beijing on Tuesday.
Beijing:  A group of foreign tourists, including a veteran anti-apartheid activist from South Africa, have been held in a northern Chinese jail since last Friday after police accused them of watching "terrorist propaganda videos" in their hotel, according to family members and consular officials.
The nine detainees - five South Africans, three Britons and an Indian - were among a group of 20 tourists stopped at the airport in Ordos, a city in the Inner Mongolia region, as they prepared to board a plane for Xian, home of China's famed terra cotta warriors, according to consular officials and relatives. The tourists, many of them affluent Muslims of South Asian descent, had been on a 47-day customised tour of China.

 South Africa's deputy president Mr Ramaphosa, with Chinese premier Mr Li in Beijing on Tuesday.
On Wednesday, six members of the group were allowed to board a flight for Britain, according to a spokeswoman for the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in London. Chinese officials initially said five of the South Africans would be able to leave on Wednesday, but they later postponed their departure until Thursday without explanation, according to relatives.
None of the remaining nine detainees have been charged with a crime. Police officials in Ordos could not be reached for comment Wednesday.
The Chinese Foreign Ministry, in a response to faxed questions, said the foreigners were "suspected of crimes" but did not elaborate. "China will protect the legitimate rights and interests of the concerned persons in accordance with law, and continue to provide necessary convenience and assistance to foreign embassies for their consular affairs," it said.

 Uighurs deported from Thailand to China last week are dressed in black hoods. Photo: Reuters

Dr Imtiaz Sooliman, chairman of Gift of the Givers, a South African aid group that has been working to free the detainees, said family members were planning to hire an international human rights lawyer.
"To hold people without charge for so long is unacceptable," he said. "We're concerned they could be held for several months."
The detentions come at a time of heightened security in China over what the government contends is a growing threat of Islamic extremism. On Tuesday, police in another northern city, Shenyang, shot and killed three men who they said were members of a terrorist organisation from the Xinjiang region, in far western China.

 A Uighur brought down the stairs of an airplane by police at an unidentified location in China last week. Photo: Reuters

Police in Shenyang initially claimed the men had shouted jihadi slogans and wielded knives when officers tried to enter their apartment. Online news articles about the incident, including references to the men as "Xinjiang terrorists", were later removed from the Internet, raising questions about the police accounts of the incident.
Relatives of the detained tourists, among them two prominent doctors from South Africa, said any suggestion that they were viewing jihadist videos was nonsensical. Shameel Joosub, the chief executive of Vodacom, a leading African telecommunications company, said that three of his relatives on the trip - his brother, a corporate executive, and his elderly aunt and uncle - were devout Muslims but by no means extremists.
"These accusations are completely absurd," he said. "We are very stressed out." He said that police had confiscated the cellphones of the detainees and that consular officials did not know about the detentions for two days.
Dr Sooliman of Gift of the Givers suggested that the detentions resulted from a misunderstanding by police officers unfamiliar with Islamic practices. Some of the tourists, he said, were probably listening to Koranic verses in their hotel room.
"During Ramadan, many Muslims don't watch movies, and knowing the mentality of these people, they would have been listening to recitations from the Koran," said Dr Sooliman, who knows two of the detainees: Dr Feroz Suliman, a surgeon at Netcare Waterfall City Hospital in Midrand, South Africa, and his wife, Dr Shehnaaz Mohamed, a general practitioner.
"These are good people," Dr Sooliman added. "To suggest they are terrorists is ridiculous."
Among the detainees is Hoosain Ismail Jacobs, a 74-year-old former anti-apartheid activist who spent 27 years in exile.
The detentions coincided with a state visit to China by a group of South African officials that includes Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, who met with China's premier, Li Keqiang, on Tuesday. In a Facebook post, Gift of the Givers called on the visiting South African officials to ensure that the remaining detainees were promptly released.
"It is inconceivable that a government hosts another government on a state visit and simultaneously incarcerates ten of its citizens without charge," the statement said. "The Chinese must be told in no uncertain terms to provide the evidence and proof if the South Africans have terror links, charge them and take them to trial, alternatively, they must release them immediately and unconditionally."

 Compare variable loan rates as low as 3.89% p.a. now

 All Galaxy S7 plans from all major telcos available now

 Grab a bargain on one of the year's best phones