2015-07~07
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/diplomacy-defence/article/1844681/turkish-president-tayyip-erdogan-likely-downplay-uygur

Turkish president Tayyip Erdogan likely to downplay Uygur concerns during China visit | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Pragmatic Turkish leader understands role of Chinese investment while not alienating his conservative power base, experts say
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan will try to downplay the dispute with China over Uygurs and highlight trade and infrastructure cooperation during a two-day visit in China that starts on Wednesday, analysts say.
Analysts said China was likely to raise concerns over Turkey's diplomatic assistance to Turkic-speaking Uygurs in exile, but Erdogan is unlikely to make concessions.
The Turkish president is visiting China on Wednesday and Thursday at the invitation of President Xi Jinping, the Chinese foreign ministry announced on Monday.
Erdogan is leading a large delegation of ministers and nearly a hundred businessmen and journalists, said Dr Ragip Kutay Karaca, a professor of political science and international relations at Istanbul Gelisim University.
The visit comes after hundreds of nationalists in Turkey protested early this month over news that Communist Party members, civil servants, students and teachers in Xinjiang were told not to observe the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan
It also follows the violent protest against the consulate of Thailand in Istanbul after Bangkok agreed to repatriate about 100 Uygurs to China.
Beijing in return blamed Ankara for undermining China's anti-terrorism efforts, with official media carrying lengthy reports on how Turkish diplomats and businessmen in Southeast Asia helped Uygurs join terrorist groups in Syria with fake travel documents.
Erdogan - who openly described violent ethnic clashes in Xinjiang in July 2009 as "genocide" - is expected to put aside the long-standing disputes and focus on mutually beneficial issues including mining and high-speed rail construction, said Professor Behlul Ozkan, from Istanbul's Marmara University.
"Turkey and China should not need to agree on ethnic issues to continue their economic cooperation," Ozkan said. "Erdogan is a pragmatic leader … The Turkish companies that are partners of Chinese investment in Turkey are close to him."
Karaca said Ankara was keen to reach agreements with Beijing that could bring more Chinese investors to Turkey and balance its trade deficit with China, which constitutes one-fourth of the country's total deficit.
As a country that straddles Asia and Europe, Turkey could play the role of a transit station in China's "one belt, one road" initiative to bolster regional infrastructure links, Li Lifan, a Central Asian studies expert at the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences, said.
"But the key to such cooperation is political compromise," Li said. "It will concern Beijing and Chinese companies when they are making investment decisions if Turkey continues to support illegal Uygur migrants."
Ozkan said there was little chance that Erdogan would promise significant changes to Ankara's sympathetic policies on Uygur migrants to appease Beijing, because religious persecution in Xinjiang remains an outstanding issue among right-wing voters who make up a large percentage of his support, he said.
When the thorny issue is raised during the negotiation, Erdogan will not hesitate to articulate that China should respect the religious freedom of the Uygurs, Karaca said.
Ozkan added that Erdogan will also seek to revisit Xinjiang, where he kicked off his 2012 China visit, to show his right-wing supporters that "he is trying to solve the Uygur issue". 