2015-07~07
http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/author/Dirk%20van%20der%20Kley.aspx

All posts by dirk van der kley
Thank you to Marie-Alice McLean-Dreyfus for raising the important question of whether China's non-interference policy works in the age of ISIS. She correctly argues that the recent capture of a Chinese citizen by ISIS raises uncomfortable questions, and adds that Beijing will need to re-evaluate its policy of non-interference.
I would frame my thinking differently: China has already significantly adapted its non-interference policy in other parts of the world, so why not in Iraq and Syria? 
Non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries is a long-held official Chinese foreign policy under the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. While the rhetoric of this policy has changed little over the years, its application has transformed significantly. 
This is most clear in China's involvement in UN peacekeeping operations (UNPKOs). Prior to 1989, China did not participate in any UNPKOs. As the UN's interventions have grown in scale and complexity, so has China's participation. As of September 2015, China has 3078 police and military troops participating in UNPKOs including a growing number of combat troops. China's personnel contribution is the largest of any permanent UN Security Council member.
Politically too, Beijing has become more involved in the affairs of other nations.
In Sudan, Beijing publicly (and privately) pressured the Khartoum Government to accept the presence of a joint African Union-UN PKO, something Beijing has previously been reluctant to do. The Chinese have also facilitated meetings between the Taliban and the Afghan Government. This was part of a significant rethinking in China's Afghan policy – until 2011, 'They just used to send people to read out statements in meetings'.
Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs officials also recognise the shortcomings of strict adherence to the non-interference policy. China's special envoy to the Middle East, Wu Sike, said in 2011 that 'non-interference in each other's internal affairs does not mean doing nothing.' Similarly, a Chinese ambassador to Africa was quoted saying in 2014, 'Of course we are increasingly involved in the politics of African countries, we are being pulled in, we have no choice.' 
So why then is China not being pulled into Iraq and Syria? My view is that it is a strategic calculation, not an ideological one. The perceived threats don't justify the risk of significant involvement in Iraq and Syria.
Although China imports significant amounts of oil from Iraq, its supply is not yet affected by the country's turmoil. China's main oil assets are in the relatively stable south, and they are producing record amounts of oil. Perhaps future threats to oil assets would provide sufficient motivation for Chinese involvement (it did in Sudan), but the world is currently awash with oil.
The direct threat from ISIS is seen as more ideological than operational. ISIS and other global terrorist organisations have offered moral support for the Uyghur cause, but this hasn't translated into operational support. In fact, numerous Chinese observers indicated to me that ideological propaganda is the biggest security threat emanating from the Middle East (and Afghanistan/Pakistan too) – extremist propaganda from global organisations influencing dissatisfied Chinese Uyghurs in Xinjiang. It is unclear to these analysts that the degradation or defeat of ISIS would stop the ideological threat. The preferred method instead is to clamp down internally in China and stop the threat there. 
Finally, Chinese questions remain over the efficacy of a military solution in Iraq and Syria. China has watched interventions in Iraq and Afghanistan over the past 15 years and the outcomes have not filled Chinese observers who I speak to with confidence. The risks of involvement do not currently match the perceived threats. So while the capture of a Chinese hostage will likely cause much hand-wringing in Beijing, it is not likely to change China's strategic calculus in Iraq and Syria. Non-interference is simply a good justification. 
This year's Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Heads of State Council Meeting, being held in Russia on 10 July, promises to be the most productive in years. Pakistan and India will likely be confirmed as full members (although ascension may not occur until 2016), a move Moscow has long advocated and Beijing has long opposed.
In return, Moscow dropped its opposition to the Chinese-proposed SCO Development Bank. In fact Russia is now actively campaigning for it.
On the surface this is another sign of growing China-Russia friendship. But in fact, Beijing approved India's ascension in order to court New Delhi rather than to please Moscow (or Islamabad, for that matter). 
Beijing was not under pressure from Moscow to approve the Indian and Pakistani memberships; it opposed the entry of India and Pakistan for years without damaging its Russia relations. Moscow's support for the SCO Development Bank was not decisive either. Beijing has reportedly demurred on the SCO Development Bank as it focuses on the Asian Investment Infrastructure Bank (AIIB) and One Belt One Road (OBOR). 
Beijing's courtship of New Delhi goes far beyond SCO membership. In China, India is seen as vital for the success of the AIIB and OBOR; Chinese scholars have indicated this publicly, and it was mentioned to me privately during my visit to Beijing in May. India announced in June that it would be the second-largest stakeholder in the AIIB.
Chinese analysts are also showing more interest in India, albeit from a low base. Traditionally, Chinese observers have largely ignored India, except for issues around border tensions. However, also during my recent trip to Beijing, generalist scholars frequently (and unprompted) raised India's role vis-à-vis the US as well as the AIIB and OBOR. 
This growing interest has been reflected in leadership visits. Premier Li Keqiang's first overseas visit was to India. Xi Jinping also visited India earlier this year. Xi and Li's predecessors, Hu Jintao and Wen Jiabao, both only visited India twice in ten years (and Hu's second trip was for a BRICS Summit). That is unthinkable for Xi and Li. At the very least Xi will have to visit again for an SCO summit, a BRICS summit and potentially a G20 summit before the end of his leadership. Prime Minister Modi was also treated to unprecedented levels of hospitality during his May 2015 visit to China.
Of course there are limits. Disparaging Chinese views of India won't disappear overnight. Most leading Chinese international relations scholars are still US and Japan specialists. There is also a huge gap in the economic and military power of both countries. As Zhu Feng of Nanjing University has said, 'We don't consider India a very successful contender and I don't think Modi can change that.'
Nevertheless, India's ascension to the SCO occurred because Beijing wants supportive partners for its growing regional ambitions, and India is the best fit in the increasingly important domain of South Asia.
The 21st century is very different from the 20th. The U.S., though still the most powerful, can’t keep everything under its thumb. Watching the U.S., the word I can use is 'anxiety.' It has so many problems of its own while trying so hard to handle many of the world affairs in the old way. This is not going to work and the U.S. needs to learn to adapt to the new world environment where the ground is shifting. In this changed world, countries have to work together, meaning accommodating and even making compromises when needed. The U.S. may need to change its way of looking at world issues.
Members of the Chinese political establishment are not anti-foreign themselves. Xi sent his own daughter to be educated to the United States. [The daughter, Xi Mingze, was a recent undergraduate at Harvard University.] The anti-foreign sentiment is merely a political necessity. The people have many grievances, because income disparity has reached crisis levels. The political establishment needs the public to turn their rage toward foreign countries.
My argument in a nutshell is that if China continues to grow economically, it will attempt to dominate Asia the way the United States dominates the Western Hemisphere. The United States, however, will go to enormous lengths to prevent China from achieving regional hegemony. Most of Beijing’s neighbors, including India, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Russia, and Vietnam, will join with the United States to contain Chinese power. The result will be an intense security competition with considerable potential for war. In short, China’s rise is unlikely to be tranquil.
In just two months' time, international forces in Afghanistan will hand over security responsibility to local personnel. In preparation for the handover, and the eventual withdrawal of foreign militaries, Beijing has substantially raised its traditionally low-key diplomacy in the country.
China has pursued dozens of bilateral and multilateral diplomatic mechanisms with Afghanistan and surrounding countries that have focused on the issue of security. As I write in a new Lowy Institute Analysis, diplomacy is one of China's two major policy pillars in Afghanistan (the other is to substantially increase economic engagement).
Beijing's key interest in Afghanistan is security. China wants to prevent the spread of terrorism, and in particular terrorist ideology, into the Chinese province of Xinjiang, as well to ensure that Afghanistan does not function as a strong base for Uyghur militancy. Beijing will not commit militarily to Afghanistan, so how will it use diplomacy to prevent new instability spreading to Xinjiang?
Beijing will attempt to reduce the security threat in two main ways.
Beijing's direct influence in stabilising Afghanistan is limited. It will commit huge levels of economic support. Diplomatically it is encouraging surrounding countries to contribute to the reconstruction of Afghanistan. But security will be left to Afghan forces and any residual foreign troops. The US will likely play the role of mediator in Afghanistan if necessary, as happened during the recent electoral deadlock. 
On point 2, Beijing has more diplomatic options. China maintains contacts with a broad range of actors and groups in Afghanistan, including the Taliban. Since the Karzai Government came to power in 2001, contact with the Taliban has often been via intermediaries. But more recently Beijing has reportedly rebuilt the direct links it had with the Taliban prior to the US invasion in 2001.
Beijing seeks guarantees that Afghanistan won't function as a base for Uyghur militant groups. It also wants Chinese investments in Afghanistan protected from Taliban attacks. There are mixed views to how effective this approach will be. Some Chinese sources say the Taliban doesn't want to raise the ire of Beijing because this could complicate the Taliban's relationship with Pakistan, which has close ties to China. Others question the Taliban's commitment to China's requests. Insurgents have attacked Chinese resource projects in Afghanistan on numerous occasions, and in 2012 Reuters quoted a Taliban spokesperson saying it opposed China's largest investment in Afghanistan, a copper mine near Kabul.
Beijing has also vastly increased its regional diplomatic footprint. China hopes to achieve a consensus on the Afghan issue among surrounding countries because they are at the front line of containing any new Afghan instability. What this consensus may look like is vague, but could include increasing regional cooperation on issues such as anti-narcotics and counter-terrorism, with practical measures such as intelligence sharing, joint military exercises and judicial or law-enforcement training (some of these already happen bilaterally or through the Shanghai Cooperation Organization).
There are clear obstacles. Officials in Central Asian countries are suspected of close links to the drug trade. And there are long running concerns that Pakistan's security and intelligence services help shelter terrorists. Also, many countries in the region have antagonistic relationships with each other.
Despite challenges, Beijing's diplomatic approach may suffice to quell the terrorist threat from Afghanistan. The number of Uyghur militants sheltering in Afghanistan (and Pakistan too) in all likelihood remains small, and the capability of external Sunni Uyghur militant groups to launch attacks in China appears limited. It would take a significant capability leap from these groups to be a constant operational threat to China. 
However, diplomacy, economics or military intervention cannot prevent the spread of terrorist and religious propaganda into Xinjiang. This was consistently identified by Chinese interlocutors in research interviews for my Lowy Institute Analysis as the greatest external threat to Xinjiang's stability. 
The Chinese Government probably hypes the ideological threat from abroad – as many governments do. Xinjiang's problems are overwhelmingly domestic, stemming from a disenfranchised Uyghur population that chafes under religious repression, economic imbalances and ingrained discrimination. But concerns abound that ideological messages could resonate with this group.
The most prominent external Sunni Uyghur militant group, the Turkistan Islamic Party, undeniably encourages violence in Xinjiang and supports Uyghur separatism. Its media output has become more sophisticated in the past few years. Other groups such as the Islamic State and al Qaeda have also expressed ideological support for Uyghurs in Xinjiang, although this doesn't appear to have led to operational support. 
Chinese analysts understand the limits of diplomacy in regard to Afghan security, but it is seen, along with an economic contribution, as the least-worst policy option. Shi Lan of the Xinjiang Academy for Social Sciences sums it up: 'Dialogue is the best choice we have for solving this issue. Of course, I feel it may be difficult to achieve results with dialogue, but we have to try.'
I don’t care what they talk about; I don’t expect anything. For the past two years they’ve arrested more than three-hundred human rights defenders and intellectuals, such as Pu Zhiqiang, Tang Jingling, and Ilham Tohti. And they have destroyed many Christian churches, they cracked down on the Internet, and they published a series of articles against universal values...
Where can China's leaders find their ideas?” he [Yan] said. “They can't possibly find them nowadays from Western liberal thought, and so the only source they can look to is ancient Chinese political thinking.”
There, a young girl cradled my head and poured water into my eyes. Some others wiped the chemicals off my arms and legs. When they went on to help the next injured person, an old woman kept watch over me, speaking soft Cantonese and plying me with all manner of snacks and drinks.
To receive a digest of posts from The Interpreter via email, enter your email address: