2015-07~07
http://renewables.seenews.com/news/aussie-transgrid-agrees-to-connect-175-mw-goldwind-wind-farm-482727

Aussie TransGrid agrees to connect 175-MW Goldwind wind farm - SeeNews Renewables
Business news and intelligence for the renewable industry. The newswire goes beyond the familiar renewable markets of Western Europe and the US to encompass the potential of BRIC countries and emerging alternative energy stars in North Africa, Asia Pacific, Central and Eastern Europe.
July 2 (SeeNews) - Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology (HKG:2208) has signed an agreement with TransGrid to connect to the Australian grid the 175-MW White Rock wind farm in the state of New South Wales.
After securing the grid-connection of the wind park, the Chinese turbine maker is now preparing to kick off construction works at the site later in 2015. To that end, the firm recently opened a tender process for key construction contracts, valued at millions of Australian dollars, Australian media reported.
The park will have 70 turbines in total. Phase one of the wind project, located between the towns of Glen Innes and Inverell, is expected to generate enough electricity to power some 75,000 local households, Goldwind calculates.
In 2014, the Abbott Government set up a panel for the review of the White Rock project, which recommended scrapping it. But now the project is definitely going forward with completion expected in mid-2017.
As a junior reporter at SeeNews Renewables, Militsa Mancheva is focused on the Chinese market and the rest of Asia. Solar and offshore wind are her mantras.
July 2 (SeeNews) - Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology (HKG:2208) has signed an agreement with TransGrid to connect to the Australian grid the 175-MW White Rock wind farm in the state of New South Wales.
After securing the grid-connection of the wind park, the Chinese turbine maker is now preparing to kick off construction works at the site later in 2015. To that end, the firm recently opened a tender process for key construction contracts, valued at millions of Australian dollars, Australian media reported.
The park will have 70 turbines in total. Phase one of the wind project, located between the towns of Glen Innes and Inverell, is expected to generate enough electricity to power some 75,000 local households, Goldwind calculates.
In 2014, the Abbott Government set up a panel for the review of the White Rock project, which recommended scrapping it. But now the project is definitely going forward with completion expected in mid-2017.
As a junior reporter at SeeNews Renewables, Militsa Mancheva is focused on the Chinese market and the rest of Asia. Solar and offshore wind are her mantras.
SeeNews Renewables provides business news and intelligence for the renewable energy industry worldwide
To send comments and suggestions about news coverage or to report errors that call for correction:
renewables@seenews.com
 +359 2 80 12 677
To get information on
 our traffic, readers profile
 and prices, visit our 
Advertising page
 or contact us at advertising@seenews.com

Disclaimer
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Code of Ethics
 Copyright © 2016 SeeNews. All rights reserved.
