2015-07~07
http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/07/28/turkey-china-defence-idUSL5N1081WG20150728

UPDATE 2-Heading to China, Turkey's Erdogan eyes improved missile defence bid | Reuters
* Diplomatic row over Uighurs hangs over Erdogan visit

 (Adds quotes, details on bid process)
ANKARA, July 28 Turkey is open to an improved
offer from preferred bidder China in a long-range missile
defence system tender, President Tayyip Erdogan said on Tuesday
ahead of a visit to Beijing, reviving a deal that has raised
security concerns among NATO allies.
Erdogan's state visit to China is expected to focus on
Turkish trade links with the world's second-biggest economy. But
a recent diplomatic spat over the treatment of China's Muslim
minority Uighurs will also loom over talks.
NATO member Turkey chose China Precision Machinery Import
and Export Corp in 2013 as the preferred candidate for the $3.4
billion deal, stirring U.S. and Western concern about security
and the compatibility of the weaponry with NATO systems.
The agreement with China then languished, and Turkey
re-opened negotiations with U.S. and European firms over its
first-long-range missile defence system. Ankara said China had
not met all requirements of the $3.4 billion deal.
"The most suitable bid came from China but certain
developments led to delays. We will revisit these matters during
this trip. If we receive a proposal that enriches the bid, we
will view this positively," Erdogan told a news conference in
Ankara before departing for China.
Ankara has given mixed messages on whether it will integrate
the system with NATO infrastructure or not.
U.S. and European allies want Turkey to use a system that is
compatible with NATO's air defence and because they are worried
about inherent security risks from Chinese technology.
In Beijing, talks between Erdogan and his Chinese
counterpart will focus on bilateral trade, which is now worth
about $24 billion, according to official figures.
"The visit's most important topic will be the negotiations
between China and Turkey on defence systems," a Turkish official
said on condition of anonymity. He added that no final agreement
would be reached during the trip.
During the tender, U.S. firm Raytheon put in an
offer with its Patriot missile defence system. Franco-Italian
group Eurosam, owned by the multinational European missile maker
MBDA and France's Thales, came second in the tender.
Russia was eliminated in the first stage of the tender but
the official said Moscow was still keen on providing a
surface-to-air missile system - a prospect that would also cause
disquiet in NATO.
An official from Turkey's Defence Industry Undersecretariat,
which has run the technical negotiations with China, said a
major stumbling block has been China's reluctance to make a
technology transfer which could give Turkey the knowledge to
operate the system and eventually replicate it.
"If this issue is solved, the project will be approved," the
official said on condition of anonymity.
But Erdogan may also field complaints about recent protests,
some violent, against China's embassy and citizens in Turkey by
nationalist Turks angered by China's treatment of Uighurs.
Uighurs, who number about 10 million and live predominantly
in the western province of Xinjiang, have had their religious
and cultural rights curbed by the Chinese government over
concerns about separatism, according to Human Rights Watch. Some
Turks believe they share ethnic ties with the Uighurs.
Turkey harbours a sizeable community of Uighur dissidents,
and violent protests broke out earlier this month when Thailand
forcibly deported nearly 100 Uighurs back to China. The Thai
consulate in Istanbul was stormed and reports of attacks on
Chinese restaurants and east Asian tourists emerged. 

 (Additional reporting by Orhan Coskun, Ece Toksabay and Humeyra
Pamuk; Writing by Nick Tattersall and Ayla Jean Yackley; Editing
by Mark Heinrich)
Using citation analysis to identify authors whose papers wield outsized influence
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.