2015-07~07
http://jurist.org/paperchase/2015/07/thailand-deports-over-one-hundred-uighurs-to-china.php

JURIST - Thailand deports over one hundred Uighurs to China
[JURIST] Thailand on Thursday deported 109 Uighurs back to China despite international warnings that the refugees will experience severe treatment upon returning. Significant opposition to the decision [Bangkok Post report] erupted as pro-Uighur protesters attacked [BBC report] the Thai consulate in Istanbul, leading to security forces pepper spraying the crowd. Amnesty International [advocacy website] called the deportations violations of international law [press release]. The refugees had been detained in Thailand since last year, along with approximately 50 other Uighurs that did not fled from unknown countries other than China. About 170 Uighurs were deported back to Turkey recently after their nationality was definitively determined.
Uighurs, a mainly Muslim minority group centralizing in Xinjiang, have faced persecution for many years now, especially from the dominant Chinese ethnic group, the Han. Earlier this month the Chinese government denied [BBC report] reports that the government had banned all Muslims, including Uighurs, from fasting during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. In January authorities in Urumqi, capital of the far-west Chinese province of Xinjiang, issued a new law [JURIST report] banning the wearing of burqas in public. The burqa ban was the most recent ordinance enacted by Chinese authorities effectively targeting the Uighur population. Also in January provincial authorities of Xinjiang banned students and civil servants from fasting during Ramadan. In November the People's Court of Kashgar in the region of Xinjiang sentenced [JURIST report] 22 Muslims to prison terms for illegal religious activities and other crimes. In May 2014 Chinese officials held a public rally and sentenced 55 Uighur individuals [JURIST report] for crimes such as separatism, participation in terrorist groups and violent terrorism.







The Failure of Illicit Asset Recovery: A Haitian Case Study
 Rogendy Toussaint St. John's University School of Law 











When Equitable Remedies Give Way to Remedies at Law (or How to Avoid a Benefits Plan's Subrogation Clause)
John Klinker Loyola University Chicago Law School 











Iran's Seizure of United States Naval Personnel and Vessels
 Barry Feinstein Netanya Academic College School of Law 











Citizenship Deprivation in France: Between Nation and the Republic
 Sandra Mantu Radboud University Nijmegen Centre for Migration Law 











How Judge Garland Can Get to the Supreme Court
 David Frakt 











Class Actions Back from the Brink: The Future of Mootness and “Pick-Offs” in Class Action Litigation Following Campbell-Ewald Co. v. Gomez
 Evan M. Meyers and Paul Geske McGuire Law PC 





Paper Chase is JURIST's real-time legal news service, powered by a team of 30 law student reporters and editors led by law professor Bernard Hibbitts at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law. As an educational service, Paper Chase is dedicated to presenting important legal news and materials rapidly, objectively and intelligibly in an accessible format.


 JURIST is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization dedicated to bringing objective legal news and reasoned expert analysis to the public. 


 E-mail inquiries, changes, news tips, URLs, corrections, etc. to JURIST@jurist.org. 


 JURIST cannot and does not provide legal advice. 
 As such, nothing on this site is intended as legal advice. If you have a legal problem, please consult an attorney.


 We wish you the best of luck with your case, but we can't help.


© Copyright JURIST Legal News and Research Services, Inc., 2013. 


© Copyright JURIST Legal News and Research Services, Inc., 2013. 


 Please note that JURIST cannot and does not provide legal advice. 


 As such, nothing on this site is intended as legal advice. If you have a legal problem, please consult an attorney.


 We wish you the best of luck with your case, but we can't help.
