2015-07~07
http://hrbrief.org/2015/07/week-in-review-july-4-2015-july-10-2015/

Week in Review [July 4, 2015 – July 10, 2015]
Sierra Leone has backed the Maputo Protocol. The international treaty addresses a variety of issues, including female genital mutilation (FGM), violence against women, and child and forced marriages. The treaty, first adopted by Mozambique in 2003, has been ratified by thirty-seven African states to date. Some say Sierra Leone’s backing of the treaty could lead to the creation of a new domestic law banning FGM.
This week, Thailand sent back more than 100 ethnic Uighurs to China. This decision drew harsh criticism from human rights groups amid concerns that those deported will face persecution by the Chinese government. China, on the other hand, claims it has no “ethnic problem” and that Muslim Uighur minorities enjoy freedom of religion. The Thai government said it had assurances from Chinese authorities regarding the safety of the Uighurs. However, a spokeswoman from the Foreign Ministry in Beijing said China would take action against those suspected of breaking the law.
The Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking Muslim minority in China’s far western Xinjiang region. The group has complained of cultural and religious suppression. The World Uyghur Congress said those repatriated could face criminal charges and harsh punishment, possibly execution, under China’s opaque legal system — the reasons they fled China in the first place. It has been reported that a six-year prison sentence was given to a Uighur man from the Xinjiang region for growing a beard, while the man’s wife was reportedly sentenced to two years for wearing a veil. Hundreds of ethnic Uighurs have already fled China to Turkey to escape religious persecution and discrimination.
The bodies of dozens of newly identified victims of the Srebrenica massacre are to be taken back to the Bosnian town for burial. A truck carrying the remains left Visoko, near Sarajevo, early Thursday. A service is to be held Saturday.
Australian authorities have extradited an Australian citizen to Croatia on war crimes charges. He is believed to be the first accused war criminal extradited by Australia.
In May 2013, former Guatemalan head of state Efrain Ríos Montt was found guilty of genocide. This was viewed as a major victory in the Guatemalan Genocide Case. However, Guatemala’s Constitutional Court overturned the decision. This week, Ríos Montt, who is accused of overseeing the murder of over 2,000 indigenous Mayans, was declared mentally unfit for a re-trial. If the tribunal accepts this conclusion, the trial would be suspended indefinitely, leaving the families of the victims without any hope of ever seeing justice.
The FARC has called for a new ceasefire amidst fear of peace talks breaking down. This new ceasefire is to last a month, and the FARC hopes it will push the Colombian government to declare a bilateral ceasefire.
There are reports that ISIS deliberately targeted civilians in a June 25, 2015 attack that occurred in and around the northern Syrian city of Kobani. The attack left approximately 262 civilians dead and at least 273 wounded.
A suicide bomber blew himself up at an army outpost in the Syrian city of Aleppo, killing at least twenty-five soldiers. The bomber was reportedly a member of the Nusra Front, Syria’s al-Qaeda offshoot.
The UN has announced a weeklong humanitarian truce in Yemen. The cease-fire will take place from July 10 to July 17.
This week, President Obama faced criticism for hosting Nguyen Phu Trong, the head of the Vietnam Communist Party, at the White House. Human Rights Watch noted that Vietnam has done little to improve its human rights, as repression, torture, and religious persecution are the norm.
The future of the Confederate flag faced a decisive vote in South Carolina’s House of Representative this week. After thirteen hours of debate, the House voted ninety-three to twenty-seven to remove the flag. The flag was raised more than fifty years ago in front of South Carolina’s Statehouse as a form of protest against the civil rights movement; it now must be removed by 10:00am on Friday, July 10, 2015.
The United Nations Human Rights Council adopted a resolution on Thursday calling for an end to child, early, and forced marriage, and recognizing child marriage as a violation of human rights.
Copyright © 2016 · Site Design by Robert Goodis and John Lo Forese