2015-07~07
http://www.womenofchina.cn/womenofchina/html1/news/action/1507/573-1.htm

Women's Federations in Action (June 23-30) - All China Women's Federation
A collection of photos showing the visit to Jiading District, Shanghai, on June 23. [Shanghai Women's Federation/Yu Jieran]
Wives of the Consulate-Generals of South Africa, Colombia,Italy and Britain in Shanghai held a joint tour to the city's suburban Jiading District on June 23, to better learn about the latest developments of the women's and children's programs there, and personally experience the greatness of traditional Chinese culture as well as its architecture.
In the morning, the tour brought them to a cultural activity center built at the Chrysanthemum Community, where they were briefed with stories from the "Love Moms" charity program and relevant parent-child classes. After that, they went to Xuhang Village, listened to an introduction to the local straw plaiting handicraft, and received straw plaiting gifts from local women.
In the afternoon, attendees went to the local Temple of Confucius and the Han Art Museum, where they saw many outstanding examples of traditional Chinese culture and artistic work.
They said that the tour helped them learn more about traditional Chinese culture and the history as well as latest developments of Jiading.
Those in attendance on the tour were Vice-President of the Shanghai Women's Federation Wong Wenlei, Vice Secretary of the Jiading District Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Zhou Jinlin, Deputy Mayor of the Jiading District People's Government Zhu Jianjiang, Director of the Development Department from the Shanghai Women's Federation Gu Xiujuan, and President of the Jiading Women's Federation Zhang Liping.
The Second Gansu Women Handmade Crafts Contest was held at Kongtong Township in Pingliang City, northwest China's Gansu Province, on June 26, to help the public learn more about the local handicrafts industry and further promote its popularity and growth amongst local women.
Winners pose for a group photo at the second Gansu Women Handmade Crafts Contest held at Kongtong Township in Pingliang City, northwest China's Gansu Province, on June 25. [Gansu Women's Federation/Cui Juan]
The event drew the attendance of 318 contestants from seven counties or districts across the entire region with 1,213 pieces of handmade items presented, including embroidery, paper-cutting and chain lace. After intensive judging, 30 contestants were conferred with the top three titles for their competence in their crafts at the event.
Along with other local senior officials, Member of the Secretariat and Vice-President of the Gansu Women's Federation Wang Lingying, Secretary of the Pingliang Municipal Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Chen Wei, Director of the Pingliang Municipal People's Congress Zhao Jingshan, and Mayor of the Pingliang Municipal People's Government Zang Qiuhua later jointly toured to the handicrafts museum. They also visited a representative base for handmade crafts there, spoke with local practitioners about their business affairs, and gave praise to the industry for its efforts to help poverty-stricken women free themselves from economic poverty.
"Local traditional handcrafts have developed into an important channel to showcase the wisdom of women and are a carrier for them to achieve success through embracing a traditional cultural heritage in their personal life. So far, the development of the handicraft industry has grown into one of key means for local underprivileged women to independently escape economic poverty," Wang said in her speech. She added that the contest would inject fresh blood into the growth of the handmade crafts industry and further increase local women's enthusiasm towards their participation into the industry.
Village CPC Committee in Xinjiang Holds Celebration of Party Founding Anniversary
Attendees reconfirm their oath to be a CPC member during a gathering held by the Tuowanke·Maolazhade Village Committee of the CPC at Naize'er Bage Township in Kashgar Prefecture, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, with staff members from the Xinjiang Women's Federation, on June 29, to celebrate the 94th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China (CPC). [Xinjiang Women's Federation/Liu Qiaoying]
A gathering to celebrate the 94th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China (CPC) (July 1) was jointly held by the Tuowanke·Maolazhade Village Committee of the CPC at Naize'er Bage Township in Kashgar Prefecture, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, and staff members from the Xinjiang Women's Federation stationed there, on the afternoon of June 29.
During the gathering, Secretary of the Tuowanke·Maolazhade Village CPC Committee Abulimiti·Yiming gave a lecture titled "Build Confidence and Walk with the CPC" to local CPC members and applicant members of the CPC. He spoke with them about the importance and necessity of the observance of loyalty to the CPC and its cause, and talked about measures designed to help them play a leading role in the implementation of governmental policies, lead the fight against religious extremism, and maintain social stability under current social circumstances.
For their part, attendees said they would stick to the cause of the CPC, work closely with the public in the construction of local society, and contribute their efforts in the fight against religious extremism in their daily life.
Meanwhile, organizers held a ceremony to reconfirm the oath to be a CPC member. In addition, excellent CPC members and groups were conferred with awards for their performance in the engagement of local social and economic affairs.
Staff members from the Xinjiang Women's Federation made their initial trip to the township this February with an aim to help local residents boost their achievements in social and economic growth.
Xinjiang Women's Federation Organizes Activities for Village CPC Members ahead of CPC Birthday
Ahead of the 94th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China (CPC) (July 1), an array of activities were held by staff members from the Xinjiang Women's Federation stationed at the No. 1 Village of Naize'er Bage Township in Kashgar Prefecture, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.
Ahead of the 94th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China (CPC) (July 1), Gao Peixiang (L1), director of staff members from the Xinjiang Women's Federation stationed at the Naize'er Bage Township in Kashgar Prefecture, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, presents daily necessities to local CPC members. [Xinjiang Women's Federation/Sui Jian]
The events were staged to celebrate the occasion with local CPC members, deepen their sense of obligation, improve the relevant competence of being a CPC member, and strive for a means to preserve the superiority and popularity of the CPC under current social circumstances.
In one scheme, local CPC members received anniversary cards from staff members from the Xinjiang Women's Federation stationed there on June 30 with an aim to remind them to stick to the principles of the CPC and further increase their enthusiasm towards the Party's cause.
Meanwhile, staff members from the Xinjiang Women's Federation brought with them daily necessities to local CPC members, which aimed to help them to better feel the care from the CPC and encourage them to closely engage themselves with local social and economic affairs.
Furthermore, a ceremony was held at the village to invite local CPC members to renew their oath to the Party, and to inspire them to live up to their membership in their daily work.
In addition, local CPC members were divided into groups during their participation into CPC's affairs on the basis of democratic consultations. Outstanding Party groups were awarded with honors for their performance in the attendance of local social and economic affairs as well.
Gao Peixiang, director of staff members from the Xinjiang Women's Federation stationed at the township, stated that all CPC members should be loyal and grateful to the CPC, since their political life belongs to the CPC. She added that their activities would help local CPC members have a clear understanding of their political obligations, strengthen their awareness of the CPC's affairs, and further devote themselves to local social and economic growth in the coming years.
Please understand that womenofchina.cn,a non-profit, information-communication website, cannot reach every writer before using articles and images. For copyright issues, please contact us by emailing: website@womenofchina.cn. The articles published and opinions expressed on this website represent the opinions of writers and are not necessarily shared by womenofchina.cn. 
Copyright 2005-2014 All rights reserved. Women's Foreign Language Publications of China.  Email: website@womenofchina.cn