2015-07~07
http://www.womenofchina.cn/womenofchina/html1/news/china/1507/534-1.htm

China Calls for Care of Vulnerable Groups Ahead of World Population Day - All China Women's Federation
China's state health authority has called for more care for vulnerable groups ahead of World Population Day, which falls on July 11.
In a document issued last month, the National Health and Family Planning Commission (NHFPC) announced the theme of this year's celebrations as "Advocating the New Style of Marriage and Child-raising and Caring for the Vulnerable Populations".
The commission said it will organize activities commemorating World Population Day in Wuhan, central China‘s Hubei Province in July, to advocate scientific and civilized concepts on marriage and child-nurturing and call for more care for those groups in society who are least able to look after themselves.
It also asked local health authorities to launch publicity campaigns and organize various activities.
In response to the authority's call, staff from the local health committee of Qinghe County in northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region carried out publicity activities at local communities on June 6. They issued brochures with knowledge on family planning policy and prenatal and postnatal care, which were well received by locals.
Longju Township in Dongying City in east China's Shandong Province has also held similar activities. Besides, they provided consultancy and free psychical checks to young adults and promoted campaigns for the fight against illegal fetus sex determination and illegal abortion and support for migrants.
World Population Day seeks to raise awareness of global population issues. The event was established by the United Nations in 1989. It was inspired by the public interest in Five Billion Day on July 11, 1987, which is approximately the date on which the world's population reached five billion.
The UN Population Foundation (UNPF) has identified this year's theme as "Vulnerable Populations in Emergencies".
According to statistics, over 50 million people worldwide are displaced due to war or disasters, of which women, children and the youth account for over three quarters. Women and children are exposed to greater risks of abuse, sexual assault, violence, forced marriage and diseases in reproductive health. Basic and emergency delivery services are lacking during long-lasting crises and in the course of early restoration processes. During these times, services for victims of sexual violence and prevention measures for sexually transmitted diseases are greatly hindered.
Promoting its work in emergency conditions helps ensure the protection of the sexual and reproductive health rights of women and children and address their vulnerability to violence, says the foundation.
Please understand that womenofchina.cn,a non-profit, information-communication website, cannot reach every writer before using articles and images. For copyright issues, please contact us by emailing: website@womenofchina.cn. The articles published and opinions expressed on this website represent the opinions of writers and are not necessarily shared by womenofchina.cn. 
Copyright 2005-2014 All rights reserved. Women's Foreign Language Publications of China.  Email: website@womenofchina.cn