2015-07~07
http://www.pressexaminer.com/uighurs-sent-back-to-china-being-treated-well-thailand-official/5436

Uighurs sent back to China being treated well: Thailand official - Press Examiner
Thailand said Monday that 109 Muslim Uighur who were sent to China amid global outcry are being treated “well” by the Chinese government.
Despite widespread Turkish anger over China’s treatment of Xinjiang Uighurs, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is expected to sidestep the issue during a mission to deepen ties with Beijing later this month. The group has complained of harsh cultural and religious suppression as well as economic marginalization under Chinese rule.
He said at present a report is being prepared which will be approved by Gen. Prawit Wongsuwan, the deputy prime minister, who will then inform Prime Minister Gen Prayut Chan-o-cha.
Thailand’s recent repatriation of over 100 illegal Chinese immigrants was in accordance with global practices, says a Thai expert on global affairs. Raging protesters attacked the Thai consulate in Istanbul, breaking windows and ransacking offices.
The Uighur were from a group of around 350 people who had been detained in Thai immigration centers for around two years.
Mr Anusit said he talked to detainee Abdullah Mahamad who told him that he had been persuaded to join a “movement in another country” but now regretted it. He cried when telling his story, Mr Anusit added. “It was even better than when they were with us, when the conditions were quite poor”.
“For the sake of their family’s safety, arrested Uighurs have no other choice than to become propaganda tools for the Chinese government”, Mr Raxit said in a statement. The United States also condemned Thailand’s action, and voiced deep concern about the protection of asylum-seekers in the Southeast Asian country.
The Thai authorities returned them to China as required by worldwide laws, and the Thailand-China law-enforcement operation was in line with relevant worldwide treaties and bilateral agreements and thus was justified and legal, Li added.
In late June, Thailand sent back 172 Uighurs who were identified as Turkish back to Turkey.
Be proactive – Use the “Flag as Inappropriate” link at the upper right corner of each comment to let us know of abusive posts.