2015-07~07
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/59921/20150729/turkish-president-erdogan-begins-official-visit-beijing-uighurs-situation-missile.htm

Turkish President Erdogan Begins Official Visit to Beijing: Uighurs Situation, Missile System Deal Looms in Discussions : Politics : Chinatopix
President Xi Jinping (then Vice President) shakes hands with Turkey's President Tayyip Erdogan (then Prime Minister) at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing in 2012.(Photo : REUTERS/Kazuhiro Ibuki/Pool)
The President of Turkey Tayyip Erdogan arrived in Beijing on Wednesday to commence his much anticipated visit to China. The visit by the Turkish leader - his first to China - comes amid tensions over the alleged mistreatment and migration of Uighurs in China as well as the prospect of reviving a long-range missile defense system deal between both nations.
Before leaving for China, President Erdogan expressed confidence that his visit will improve the "strategic partnership" between both countries. He further noted that Turkey is eager to advance all round cooperation with China.
Chinese state media have reported that China and Turkey will sign several deals during President Erdogan's visit. The Turkish leader is set to meet with President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang on Wednesday afternoon.
Among other things, President Erdogan is expected to discuss the recent dispute between both countries over the deportation of over 100 Chinese Uighur Muslims from Thailand. The incident sparked violent anti-China protests in Turkey and forced China to warn its citizens in Turkey to take security precautions.  President Erdogan has distanced his administration from these protests.
Turkish people share deep cultural and religious ties with the China's Uighur ethnic minority. Critics have accused Chinese authorities of curtailing the religious rights of Uighurs, but China denies this. Officials say the growth of religious radicalism is to blame for the recent terrorist attacks in China.
China's Ministry of Public Security has revealed that radical Turkish gangs facilitate the recruitment and illegal emigration of Chinese Muslims to join the jihadist movement in the Middle East. Turkish diplomats in Southeast Asian countries have been accused of aiding these radical groups.
According to the Ministry of Public Security, the 100 Chinese Uighur migrants deported from Thailand had been on their way to join terrorist groups in the Middle East.
Besides the Uighur situation, President Erdogan has revealed that he will discuss the 2013 agreement for China to build Turkey's first long-range missile defense system. The $3.4 billion deal was put on ice due to disagreements over the China-built system's compatibility with Turkey's joint air defense weaponry with NATO and the U.S.
President Erdogan said "certain developments" have delayed the construction of the long-range missile defense system. "If we receive a proposal that enriches the bid, we will view this positively," he said.
Reuters quotes an unnamed Turkish defense official explaining that if China is willing to disclose the full details of the missile defense system technology, the deal would get approval. However, China is said to be concerned over the fact that handing over this information would enable Turkey to easily replicate the technology.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent rumors have emerged that Sacramento Kings All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins could finally move to the Los Angeles Lakers in the summer following his recent comments about the Hollywood squad’s young players after the two team’s recent game. read more