2015-07~07
http://www.shanghaidaily.com/national/Plan-helps-Xinjiangs-poor-get-into-work/shdaily.shtml

Plan helps Xinjiang’s poor get into work | Shanghai Daily
Follow us @  | Shanghai Call Center: 962288 |  Mobile Version  |  THU, APR 18, 2013
A TOTAL of 794 projects have been launched this year to boost employment in impoverished areas of northwest China’s Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, according to the regional economic and information commission.
As of June, 69 of 355 projects planned for south Xinjiang’s Kashgar, Hotan, and Kizilsu Kirgiz prefectures had been completed, it said.
They cost 36 billion yuan (US$5.8 billion) to develop and have created more than 10,000 jobs, said Hu Kaijiang, director of the commission.
The projects are mainly based on traditional industries such as clay and musical instrument manufacturing, Muslim food processing and carpet weaving.
The three prefectures have high levels of poverty and unemployment, weak industrial foundations and poor education facilities.
The government has provided financial support, free training and preferential policies.
It began projects to promote employment in Kashgar, Hotan and Kizilsu Kirgiz in February last year.
By the end of the year, the monthly income of surplus labor in rural areas of the three prefectures had increased to 1,516 yuan from 400 yuan, the commission claimed.
The other 439 projects in 11 prefectures and cities are expected to create about 37,000 jobs, Hu said.
Kindly remind you that you have reached your weekly limit of 20 free stories.
Kindly remind you that your 1-week free trial has expired. Thank you for your interest in our products.
To continue using full functionality of our site, please subscribe below.

Education, 
 Entertainment and culture, Environment,
 Expat community, 
 Health and science, Society, 
 In-depth, Services...

Art and culture, 
 Community, Education, 
 Animal planet, Travel...

Book, City Scene,
 Film, Home and design,
 Now and Then, Style,
 Technology, The Week...

 Copyright © 1999- Shanghai Daily. All rights reserved.Preferably
 viewed with Internet Explorer 8 or newer browsers.
