2015-07~07
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/57293/20150712/radical-turkish-gangs-facilitate-recruitment-chinese-civilians-join-jihadists-investigators.htm

Radical Turkish Gangs Facilitate Recruitment of Chinese Civilians to Join Jihadists: Investigators : Politics : Chinatopix
A Uighur man looks on as a truck carrying paramilitary policemen travel along a street during an anti-terrorism oath-taking rally in Urumqi, Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region.(Photo : REUTERS/Stringer)
China's Ministry of Public Security revealed on Saturday that radical Turkish gangs recruit civilians in Southeast Asian countries to join the jihadist movement in the Middle East.
According to Xinhua, an investigation by the Chinese police revealed the existence of these gangs, who send their agents to Southeast Asian countries to facilitate the radicalization and recruitment of new members.
This revelation by Chinese authorities comes in response to an international backlash over the deportation of about 100 Muslim Uighurs from Thailand this week. There have been several protests in Turkey and the Thai government has come under criticisms for choosing to deport the immigrants to China where they are reported to face religious suppression.
In defense of the move, a Thai government spokesman revealed that China has requested the deportation of all Uighur Muslims back to the country, but Thailand authorities have refused to do so, Reuters reported.
Meanwhile, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying has condemned the comments of the U.S. Department of State on the issue. She said China had lodged a complaint with the U.S. over the statement, which is "in disregard of the facts and full of political prejudice."
The Ministry of Public Security has disclosed that the 100 deported immigrants were on their way to Syria, Iraq or Turkey to join the jihadist movement. According to investigators, Turkish diplomats in several Southeast Asian countries aid the activities of jihadist recruitment gangs.
Many experts have noted that the turn of events is likely to affect the ties between China and Turkey. Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan, who is scheduled to visit China later in the year, has distanced his administration from the protests.
Chinese authorities have since expressed concerns over the spread of terrorist agents into the country's borders to radicalize Uighur Muslims. Investigators have revealed that many of the immigrants, who were recently deported from Thailand, have confessed that they were radicalized by the East Turkestan Islamic Movement and the World Uyghur Congress.
The Chinese government has accused the East Turkestan Islamic Movement of spreading terrorism and religious extremism in the country. In 2013, the radical group claimed responsibility for a terrorist attack in Tiananmen Square that left about five people dead and many others injured. This is one of the most high profile terrorist attacks ever in the country's history.
Investigators have revealed that the East Turkestan Islamic Movement is actively involved in recruiting Chinese Muslims to join terrorist groups in the Middle East. Chinese authorities disclosed that they have uncovered several terrorist plots terrorists linked to this group and many foreign agents of jihadists have also been deported from the region this year.
Meanwhile, Germany-based World Uyghur Congress released a statement on Sunday condemning the recent revelations by Chinese authorities, AP reported. "China is defending itself and shirking responsibility," said Dilxat Raxit, the group's spokesman.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent rumors have emerged that Sacramento Kings All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins could finally move to the Los Angeles Lakers in the summer following his recent comments about the Hollywood squad’s young players after the two team’s recent game. read more