2015-07~07
http://www.worldbulletin.net/headlines/162025/thailand-slammed-for-separating-uighur-families

Thailand slammed for separating Uighur families | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
The Thai government was shrouded in more controversy Saturday with Human Rights Watch claiming that it separated Uighur families when it decided who would go to Turkey and who went to China this month.
Sunai Phasuk, the organization's representative for Thailand, claimed in Saturday's edition of the Bangkok Post that female and young family members were sent to Turkey, while the menfolk - and some women - were shipped to China.
"Soon after the Thai government was lauded for sending over 170 Turkic women and children to the country of their choice, the same government made a U-turn on its policy by sending the Turkic men to a country where they did not want to go,” Phasuk was reported as saying.
Human Rights Watch stressed in a statement Friday that the deported Uighur faced the risk of mistreatment in China.
“Uighur who previously had been forcibly returned to China have faced arbitrary arrest and detention, and criminal prosecutions,” it said.
“Our policy was not to separate families and the immigration police were doing the best to implement that policy,” Anusit Kunakorn, secretary-general of the Thai National Security Council, told the Post.
Kunakorn affirmed that 140 women and 32 Uighur children were sent on July 2 to Turkey with the support of the Turkish government.
Phasuk has previously said that 173 were sent to Turkey, meaning that - if correct - just one man was on the plane.
He said that the group sent to China on Thursday included 85 men and 24 women “who were verified as Chinese citizens by Chinese authorities.”
According to the Thai immigration police, there are currently 60 Uighur still detained in Thailand – 52 men, four women and four children – who are undergoing a process of “nationality verification.”
Thailand has faced a wave a criticism from Turkey, the European Union and the United States (among others), along with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and human rights groups, for its deportation of the Uighur to China.
“If the [deported Uighur] already face criminal charges, of course, the alleged promise by China to treat them well is false,” the Post wrote in a Saturday editorial under the title Migrant saga shame. 
“On the other hand, if China and Thailand had discussed such charges under normal international practice, a case for extradition could have been made,” it added.
Thailand's visa and consulate departments in Turkey remain closed since mobs gathered outside July 8. 
"The consulate department will be re-opened and continue to serve when the conditions normalize," the Embassy in Ankara said in a statement Friday.
The Uighur – who constitute around 45 percent of the population of Xinjiang – have accused China of carrying out repressive policies that restrain their religious, commercial and cultural activities.
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe
China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing'
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
