2015-07~07
http://gulfnews.com/opinion/thinkers/do-we-have-to-be-told-what-is-terrorism-1.1555911

Do we have to be told what is terrorism? | GulfNews.com
The monthly women's lifestyle magazine offering real solutions for real women.
The most read magazine in the UAE. Lively, intelligent and thought-provoking.
Focused reports on events, business and lifestyle. In depth, insightful, influential.
An inspiring home interiors magazine showcasing the best interior design.
The No. 1 source for entertainment, lifestyle & fashion in the UAE.
In-depth look at issues behind the news, with sections on people, books and art.
A weekly motoring magazine packed with the latest local and global motoring news, reviews and views.
The UAE's most listened to pop music FM radio station.
Radio 2 is all about great fun and great music!
A contemporary hits radio station with a South Asian focus
Gadget soup for the techy soul. News and reviews with our own irreverent spin
The UAE's monthly magazine for men. High octane cars, gadgets, and interviews.
The UAE's first stop shop for buying and selling cars.
Give your career a boost. Find the best and latest jobs.
Digital version of today’s newspaper, exactly as it is in print.
Get your brand seen in the region's most read newspaper.
100s of offers, half price deals, 2 for 1s - and more.
Have something you want to tell us, a question, or complaint?
No Syrian should be deemed illegal when they have every legal right to seek safety for themselves and their families ...
State-sponsored torment of Uighur community in China’s western region is bound to trigger a backlash at some point from the repressed minority
If a minority group of people is pushed into a corner because of their ethnicity or religious beliefs, they will be either forced to fight or flee. If they flee, the problem is considered solved. However, if they chose to make a stand and fight back, they are immediately branded as militants or terrorists.
Such is the case of the Uighur minority in China. They number an estimated ten million Muslims in a country where Buddhism has the widest influence, with Taoism and Confucianism as the other major religions. Islam and Christianity are followed by a minority in a population of over 1.3 billion.
Many of us are fortunate to live in countries that allow a degree of religious freedom, one that enables us to practice our faith. The Uighur Muslims, who make up the majority of the native population of the sparsely populated western Xinjiang region of China, on the contrary have been subjected to a system that has led to a steady erosion of their right to practice their beliefs.
Ramadan was a tough time for the Uighurs; while the rest of the Muslim world fasted in earnest and relatively undisturbed, they had to contend with additional trials. Chinese officials have officially banned Muslim party members, civil servants, students and teachers from fasting during Ramadan.
Minority leaders have hit out at the restrictions imposed on Islamic religious freedom in recent years and such policies have fuelled a rise in militancy against what is often perceived as targeted oppression. Just before the beginning of Ramadan, Dilxat Raxit, a spokesperson for the World Uighur Congress (WUC) — an exiled group based in Europe — publicly stated: “China is increasing its bans and monitoring as Ramadan approaches. The faith of the Uighurs has been highly politicised, and the increase in controls could cause sharp resistance. This is another attempt by China to control their Islamic faith. It can only have dire consequences as such restrictions would force the Uighur people to resist Chinese rule even further.”
The Sweden-based spokesperson for the WUC told the media that among other tactics the Chinese government “are extracting guarantees from parents, promising that their children won’t fast on Ramadan. China’s goal in prohibiting fasting is to forcibly move Uighurs away from their Muslim culture during Ramadan. Such policies that prohibit religious fasting is a provocation and will invariably only lead to instability and conflict.”
China’s provincial government has not been discreet about its intentions either. The state media reports that Muslim officials are required ‘to give verbal as well as written assurances guaranteeing they have no faith, will not attend religious activities and will lead the way in not fasting over Ramadan.’ As an added insult, the authorities sponsored several beer  festivals in heavily populated Muslim areas during the holy month.
In the days leading to Ramadan, the education bureau in the city of Tarbaghatay in the northern part Xinjiang ordered schools to communicate to students that “during Ramadan, ethnic minority students do not fast, do not enter mosques, and do not attend religious activities,” with threats of strict disciplinary action if such rules were violated.
It doesn’t stop there. Muslim-run shops and restaurants had also been ordered to remain open during fasting hours and sell tobacco products and alcohol, or risk being shut down. In late December 2014, China banned the wearing of the Islamic veil in public in the capital city of Urumqi, which lies in the predominantly Muslim region.
William Nee, a China researcher at Amnesty International, is worried. He accuses the Chinese government of heavy-handed tactics, saying that “the public wearing of veils, beards and T-shirts featuring the Islamic crescent has been banned in many cities across Xinjiang. Students have been restricted from observing Ramadan, and there have been reports of force-feeding those who insist on fasting.”
Such restrictions against religious  practices are bound to fuel a rise in militancy, just the thing the Beijing government should want to avoid. “Any religious practice that is not state-sanctioned is then characterised by the government as participating in religious extremism,” Nee said.
Chinese authorities have been encouraging the migration of ethnic Chinese into Uighur territory through frontier development schemes that generously provide startup funds to Chinese elsewhere to be supplanted into Uighur areas and slowly transform the demographics of the province. Through extreme measures, they are also hoping that many Uighur take the hint and leave.
For those who choose to stay and resist, the Chinese seek to brand them as dangerous militants. Turdi Ghoja, president of the Washington-based Uighur American Association charges that “China wants to take advantage of the global war on terrorism to legitimise its indulgence in killing, torturing and imprisoning Uighurs. The Chinese have always been treating the Uighurs as enemies.”
The concern now is where such scare tactics and statements will eventually lead to. Total extermination?
Today there is a heavy security presence on hand to control this restive province. But for how long will it remain under lid before the steam blows the lid off?
Tariq A. Al Maeena is a Saudi socio-political commentator. He lives in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. You can follow him on Twitter at www.Twitter.com/@talmaeena.
No Syrian should be deemed illegal when they have every legal right to seek safety for themse ...
Migration is a fact of history. We should learn to handle it, not pretend to stop it.
The initial overtures that Obama has made towards Cuba have already become an important part ...
GulfNews.com is the most widely read newspaper, and online site in English in the Middle East. With a daily BPA audited paid circulation of over 108,000, and an online audience of 3.5 million uniques every month, it is your go to source for information on the region. Sign up below to begin personalising your experience