2015-07~07
http://beetips.blogspot.com/2015/07/criminal-news-headlines-national-news_168.html

News-Tips-Tricks: Criminal News Headlines | National News - Yahoo India News
Oltre a notiziari generali, troverete trucchi e suggerimenti vari per migliorare l'approccio quotidiano con le varie tecnologie.
Le informazioni pubblicate provengono sia da esperienze personali che da newsletter informatiche specifiche del settore.

Latest crime news headlines from Yahoo India News. Find top stories, videos, pictures & in-depth coverage on crime news from national news section.
By J.R. Wu TAIPEI (Reuters) - Twenty-six years after Wu'er Kaixi stood alongside young comrades to stare down People's Liberation Army tanks in Tiananmen Square, the Chinese democracy activist has his sights set on winning a seat in Taiwan's parliament. Wu'er, a Taiwan citizen of nearly 20 years, and a rival from the pro-independence party have struck a gentlemen's agreement whereby the one with the least support will endorse the other in a bid to unseat the incumbent from the ruling pro-China Nationalist Party, also known as Kuomintang (KMT), in central Taiwan next year. It is an enormous monster," said Wu'er, an ethnic Uighur who fled China and ultimately made Taichung his adopted home in 1996.
By John Shiffman WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The president of the U.S. military's medical college said he took swift action after learning in 2013 that John Henry Hagmann, a former Army doctor teaching there, was injecting students with hypnotic drugs, inducing shock by withdrawing their blood, and performing rectal exams in class. Hagmann was escorted off the Uniformed Services University campus in Maryland, and the college quickly offered students blood tests to determine if they had been exposed to any diseases, school President Charles Rice said. The college also launched an internal investigation into Hagmann's conduct, and it forwarded information to law enforcement authorities and the Virginia Board of Medicine, which revoked Hagmann's license last month.
By Keith Coffman CENTENNIAL, Colo. (Reuters) - Jurors in the Colorado movie massacre trial found on Thursday the prosecution had proved aggravating factors which, the state has argued, make the 2012 rampage so heinous that gunman James Holmes deserves to be put to death. After deliberating since Wednesday, the panel of nine women and three men said prosecutors proved at least one aggravating factor connected with the mass shooting at a midnight premiere of a Batman film in a Denver suburb. The state only had to prove one aggravating factor for the process to advance to mitigation, when the jury hears witnesses called by the convicted killer's attorneys.
By Orhan Coskun and Sylvia Westall ANKARA/BEIRUT (Reuters) - Turkish forces returned fire on Islamic State militants in Syria with tank shells on Thursday after a Turkish soldier was killed and two others were wounded in a cross-border firefight, military and government officials said. The fighting comes days after a suspected suicide bombing by the Islamist radical group in a Turkish border town killed 32 people, many of them students and some of them Kurds, touching off waves of violence in the largely Kurdish southeast. Turkey's NATO allies have long expressed concern about control of the border with Syria, which in parts runs parallel with territory controlled by Islamic State.
Turkey will take "all necessary measures" to protect public order and national security following attacks by Islamic State and Kurdish militants, the prime minister's office said in a statement on Thursday. Turkey has been hit by a wave of violence in the largely Kurdish southeast after a suspected Islamic State suicide bombing killed 32 people, many of them Kurds, in a town on the Syrian border. Kurdish militants have responded by attacking policeman who they say supported Islamic State.
By Patricia Zengerle and Matt Spetalnick WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry on Thursday mounted a furious counterattack against critics of the Iran nuclear deal, telling skeptical lawmakers it would be fantasy to think the United States could simply "bomb away" Tehran's atomic know-how. Testifying before Congress for the first time since world powers reached the landmark accord with Iran last week, America's top diplomat was confronted head-on by Republican accusations that Iranian negotiators had "fleeced" and "bamboozled" him. The vitriolic exchanges on Capitol Hill reflected a hardening of positions as Congress opened a 60-day review of the deal considered crucial to its fate.
By Patricia Zengerle and Matt Spetalnick WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A U.S. Senate committee on Thursday approved amendments that would end restrictions on Americans' travel to Cuba and ease some trading barriers, advancing efforts to implement President Barack Obama's rapprochement with the communist island. The Appropriations Committee voted with bipartisan support for a measure that would ease travel limits, making it the first legislation to pass any congressional committee to facilitate the drive to normalize relations. The committee also passed other amendments to the Senate Financial Services appropriations bill to allow private financing for U.S. agricultural sales and lift restrictions on ships that operate in Cuban ports.
By Noah Browning and Mohammed Ghobari DUBAI/SANAA (Reuters) - Representatives of Yemen's ex-leader Ali Abdullah Saleh have held rare meetings with diplomats from his adversaries the United States, United Arab Emirates and Britain, a member of his party said on Thursday. Diplomats and Yemeni officials confirmed the meetings but were careful to play down their significance. "There are negotiations in Cairo between the leaders of the Congress party and diplomats from the United States, Britain and the UAE in order to find a peaceful solution to the crisis in Yemen," Adel Shuja, a leader of Saleh's Congress party, told Reuters.