2015-07~07
http://www.salon.com/2015/07/12/china_uighurs_deported_from_thailand_wanted_to_join_jihad/

China: Uighurs deported from Thailand wanted to join jihad - Salon.com
BEIJING (AP) — China says 109 Uighurs who Thailand deported to China amid international criticism that the refugees could face persecution had been on their way to Turkey, Syria or Iraq to take part in holy war.
On Thursday, Thai authorities deported the Uighurs (WEE-gurs), who had claimed to be Turkish, after determining they were Chinese.
China’s official Xinhua News Agency said the 109 illegal immigrants had been on their way “to join jihad,” and 13 of them had fled China after being implicated in terrorist activities. It said another two had escaped detention.
The repatriations were criticized by the U.N. refugee agency and rights groups.
The Uighurs are a Muslim minority in China’s far west. They’ve complained about cultural and religious suppression under Chinese rule.
Named for the 15th-century Dutch artist known for vivid depictions of life in Hell, Detective Hieronymus “Harry” Bosch goes head to head with LA’s worst criminals. Actor Titus Welliver was handpicked by author and executive producer Michael Connelly to take Bosch from the pages to the screen.
Michael Connelly personally selected every LA location featured in the Bosch opening sequence. After 20 years with this character, Connelly wanted to be sure the show reflected the authenticity that longtime fans have appreciated over the years.
Actor Titus Welliver is the real deal. Having once considered becoming an NYC police officer, he was immediately drawn to this role. Much like Connelly’s own commitment to the character, Welliver is very passionate about remaining true to the source material.
In the series, Harry Bosch lent his expertise as a cop to Hollywood for the blockbuster movie The Black Echo, based on his own life story. The poster for the film hangs proudly in his living room, high above the Hollywood Hills.
Inspired by Michael Connelly’s books City of Bones, Echo Park, and The Concrete Blonde, the first season of Bosch introduced Amazon audiences to complex character Harry Bosch. Season 2, which features storylines from Trunk Music, The Drop and The Last Coyote premieres March 11th on Amazon Prime Video.
As an LA crime reporter early in his career, Michael Connelly worked side by side with the LAPD. With three LA homicide detectives on staff as consultants, Bosch lives up to its promise of authenticity.
Harry Bosch lives in the hills just above the Cahuenga Pass, the perfect spot to look out over the city he protects. Michael Connelly found this very spot in 1989, where he often returns to contemplate the city and find inspiration. Connelly also had his own home above Hollywood many years ago – in the High Tower apartments, where noir character Philip Marlowe lived in Robert Altman’s The Long Goodbye.
To ensure they would be able to realistically capture a cop’s perspective, the Bosch cast participated in special training with the LAPD, where they were faced with hard choices in real-life scenarios.
Michael Connelly’s inspiration for the gritty realness of Harry Bosch was often found during real testimonies while sitting in court as a reporter for the LA Times, including this defining exchange from Season 1, “How many people have you killed?” “I don’t know.”
Michael Connelly, an avid fan himself, wrote in a broadcast of an LA Dodgers game for the opening scenes of Season 1.
Stream Season 2 of the Amazon Original Series Bosch with Prime.
Hulk Hogan Awarded Additional $25 Million in Gawker Sex Tape Trial
Listen to 'Rolling Stone Music Now' Podcast: GN'R, Fiona Apple, George Martin
How the world's deepest lake and chilly weather created a can't-miss musical performance.
24 stunning photos of cities around the world turning their lights off to make a point.
How a video of a metal puppet hand eventually turned into an idea for accessibility.
How a restaurant app can help the homeless and break a world record at the same time.
14 eerie photos show how this sea became a desert, and how it's finally being revived.