2015-07~07
http://www.womenofchina.cn/womenofchina/html1/news/action/1507/1844-1.htm

Xinjiang Women's Federation Staff Visit Villagers at Eid - All China Women's Federation
Women's federation staff members extend their greetings to local Uygurs after the holy month of Ramadan. [Provided by Xinjiang Women's Federation/Ma Li]
Women's federation staff from northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region enjoyed Eid celebrations with local Uygur Muslims as the traditional holy month of Ramadan came to an end on July 18.
Bringing their best wishes to local Uygurs, the staff also presented gifts. Staff paid a special visit to poverty-stricken families, religious people and local Party members and officials.
During the visit, local Uygurs shared their specialty foods such as cantaloupe, with all the staff. Dancing to folk songs, the locals invited them to celebrate the festival, one of the most important religious holidays in Islam.
One of the local Uygurs expressed her joy and said that it really surprised her to celebrate the holy holiday together with Han Chinese and receive their gifts.
"They are just like our friendly neighbors or even relatives," said one local Uygur woman.
Chang Hong, head of the staff, extended her concerns for Uygurs to carry out such religious practices. In return for Chang's kindness, the locals also invited Chang to visit their homes whilst promoting cultural exchange.
The Han Chinese staff members of the federation have established closer contact with local Uygurs through face-to-face talks in the past five months, which have also helped them earn wide social support and build connections.
Face-to-face talk between women's federation staff and local Uygurs during the visit [Provided by Xinjiang Women's Federation/Ma Li]
Women's federation staff members in Xinjiang give gifts, such as an electric rice cooker, to the locals. [Provided by Xinjiang Women's Federation/Ma Li]
A staff member from Xinjiang women's federation hugs a local woman tightly as a way to express her best wish during the Eid holiday. [Provided by Xinjiang Women's Federation/Ma Li]
Women's federation staff members deliver fine clothes to local children. [Provided by Xinjiang Women's Federation/Ma Li]
Women's federation staff members visit poverty-stricken families and the elderly in Xinjiang. [Provided by Xinjiang Women's Federation/Ma Li]
Please understand that womenofchina.cn,a non-profit, information-communication website, cannot reach every writer before using articles and images. For copyright issues, please contact us by emailing: website@womenofchina.cn. The articles published and opinions expressed on this website represent the opinions of writers and are not necessarily shared by womenofchina.cn. 
Copyright 2005-2014 All rights reserved. Women's Foreign Language Publications of China.  Email: website@womenofchina.cn