2015-07~07
http://asia.nikkei.com/Politics-Economy/Policy-Politics/Xi-s-true-colors-show-in-crackdown-on-rights-lawyers

Mao the second?: Xi's true colors show in crackdown on rights lawyers- Nikkei Asian Review
TOKYO -- President Xi Jinping's Maoist bent is becoming increasingly evident as promises of judicial, economic and social reform give way to crackdowns and market manipulation.
     Before dawn on July 9, more than 20 police officers raided the home of Wang Yu, a lawyer, in Beijing. Known as the "bravest female lawyer in China," Wang has been involved in various politically sensitive human rights cases, including that of Ilham Tohti, a Uighur academic who called for the rights of the Muslim Uighur minority in the Xinjiang region to be protected. Last year, Tohti was sentenced to life in prison on charges of separatism.     
     Following the raid on Wang's house, police targeted human rights lawyers and activists across the nation, focusing primarily on lawyers affiliated with Fengrui, the Beijing law firm to which Wang belongs.
     At least 249 lawyers and activists have been detained, denied contact with the outside world or subjected to other restrictions on their freedom, according to China Human Rights Lawyers Concern Group, a nongovernmental organization based in Hong Kong. As for Wang, all contact with her has been lost since she was taken away by police.
     Such crackdowns are not new. Indeed, China's Community Party has long treated human rights lawyers as little more than an inconvenience.
     But the scale of the latest roundup, which involved concerted police actions in more than 20 provinces and government-administered municipalities, is almost unprecedented.
     Even more unusual, state-run media, including the People's Daily and the Xinhua News Agency, have been openly criticizing the lawyers in what appears to be a coordinated smear campaign against the human rights movement.
     This broad, carefully orchestrated crackdown on rights lawyers, carried out under the orders of the Communist Party leadership, raises one particularly important question: Where does this leave the judicial reform Xi himself has been so actively promoting?
In November 2013, a year after the Xi administration came to power, the Communist Party issued a document titled "Decision on Some Major Issues Concerning Comprehensively Deepening the Reform."
     The document laid out an ambitious plan for a broad range of reforms in economic, political and social matters, and was initially seen as the administration's commitment to bringing about change.
     Judicial reform is -- or was supposed to be -- high on the agenda.
     Immediately after becoming the country's supreme leader, Xi promised that every case, no matter how small, would be treated fairly under the law.
     The party followed up its November 2013 "decision" by adopting a new blueprint for revamping the nation's judicial system a year later. Beijing has implemented some of the measures it promised, including the abolition of the country's notorious "re-education through labor" system, which had drawn sharp criticism for its alleged human rights abuses.
     The latest campaign against human rights lawyers, however, belies the administration's commitment to promoting the rule of law.
The administration has also taken steps that contradict its promises in the economic domain.
     The government's response to the stock market rout in early July, in which it took drastic measures to stem the slide in share prices, is a prime example.     
     Governments in other countries have intervened to prop up falling stock prices. Japan, for instance, conducted so-called price-keeping operations in the 1990s after its stock market bubble collapsed.
     But the measures adopted by the Xi administration blatantly ignore market principles. They also fly in the face of the party's promise, included in the November 2013 document, to allow the market to play "the decisive role" as basis for economic reform.
     Beijing's current policy appears to be to allow the market to play its role -- but only as long as it is convenient.
     This attitude can be seen in the government's policy toward industry. At the end of last year, Beijing announced a merger between the country's two dominant state-owned train makers.
     It is widely believed the merger was engineered to do away with counterproductive battles between the two companies for foreign contracts. But the new company to be created through the merger is expected to control nearly 100% of the domestic market.
     This willingness to create a virtual monopoly highlights how the government is undermining free competition, the most fundamental principle of a market economy.
Since his early days in power, Xi has been suspected by some observers and pundits of being a "reactionary Maoist."
     Xi has made remarks praising Mao Zedong, Communist China's founding father, more often than his two immediate predecessors, former Presidents Hu Jintao and Jiang Zemin.
     Xi has also taken a series of steps reminiscent of Mao-era policies, including tightening government control over the education system, imposing strict censorship on the media and launching a harsh anti-corruption campaign that looks more like a political purge.
     The administration's ambitious reform blueprint generated speculation that perhaps Xi was trying to consolidate power simply so he could push through painful changes in the face of resistance from powerful vested interests.
     But recent events leave little doubt that this was only wishful thinking.
You have limited access. To enjoy full access, subscribe now.
Your subscription renewal has not been processed.Please update your payment information and enjoy full access.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week

Your subscription renewal could not be processed. Please update your payment information to continue enjoying the Nikkei Asian Review.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week


 Nikkei Asian Review is the only publication that brings you Insight about Asia, from the inside out.
 XXcontractNameXX has enabled you free full access to Nikkei Asian Review.
