2015-07~07
http://news.yahoo.com/top-asian-news-7-00-m-gmt-070301570.html

Top Asian News at 7:30 a.m. GMT - Yahoo News
DHAKA, Bangladesh (AP) — At least 22 people were killed in a stampede in central Bangladesh early Friday when hundreds of people stormed the home of a businessman for a charity handout during the holy Muslim month of Ramadan, police said. Another 30 were injured and rushed to a hospital in Mymensingh, a town 115 kilometers (70 miles) north of the capital, Dhaka, said police officer Kamrul Islam.
BANGKOK (AP) — Thailand's national police chief said investigators were in possession of crucial DNA evidence in the murder trial of two Burmese migrants accused of killing a pair of British tourists. Media reports Thursday said the evidence had been lost or destroyed, but national police chief Gen. Somyot Poompanmoung denied that Friday. "It is not lost," he said.
The dispute over the strategic waterways of the South China Sea has intensified, pitting a rising China against its smaller and militarily weaker neighbors who all lay claim to a string of isles, coral reefs and lagoons mostly in the Spratly and the Paracel islands. Only about 45 of them are occupied. The area is one of the world's busiest shipping routes, rich in fish and potential gas and oil reserves, but it has now emerged as a possible flashpoint involving world powers and regional claimants. A look at some of the most recent key developments:
JAKARTA, Indonesia (AP) — Ash spewing from a volcano on Indonesia's main island of Java has sparked chaos for holidaymakers as airports close and international airlines cancel flights to tourist hotspot Bali, stranding thousands. Mount Raung in East Java province about 150 kilometers (93 miles) from Bali's international airport has been rumbling for several weeks. The level of activity increased in the past week and on Friday it blasted ash and debris 3,800 meters (12,460 feet) into the air.
BEIJING (AP) — Chinese authorities have evacuated tens of thousands of people and canceled scores of trains as a super-typhoon with wind gusts up to 200 kilometers per hour (125 mph) heads toward the southeastern coast. China's national weather service says super Typhoon Chan-hom is expected to make landfall by early Saturday at Fujian or Zhejiang province, and has issued its highest-level alert.
SYDNEY (AP) — A powerful earthquake rattled the Solomon Islands in the South Pacific on Friday, but officials said there was no tsunami threat and no immediate reports of damage or injuries. The 6.5-magnitude quake struck about 165 kilometers (100 miles) west of the capital, Honiara, at a depth of 10 kilometers (6 miles), according to the U.S. Geological Survey.
BEIJING (AP) — Fan Xiaolin, an engineer in Changsha in central China, thought he was safe when he deposited his family's savings of 800,000 yuan ($130,000) in a private finance company he said was recommended by employees of state-owned Bank of China. The company, part of an informal industry of lenders and investment managers that operates outside China's state-run banking system, collapsed six months later as economic growth slowed and businesses struggled. Today, Fan said he and about 100 other depositors in Hunan Bofeng Asset Management Ltd. protest several times each week outside state banks and government offices, demanding their money back.
MANILA, Philippines (AP) — Boxing icon Manny Pacquiao visited a Filipino woman on death row in Indonesia early Friday and appealed for her clemency, a human rights lawyer said. Pacquiao and his wife, Jinkee, spent about an hour with Mary Jane Veloso early Friday at a Yogyakarta jail, Edre Olalia of the Public Interest Law Center in Manila said, citing his Indonesian colleagues.
ISLAMABAD (AP) — The prime ministers of Pakistan and India have met on the sidelines of a summit in a Russian city. It's a rare meeting between the leaders from two South Asian rivals. A statement released by Pakistan says Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif met with his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi on Friday at Congress Hall in Ufa, where they are attending the summit of BRICS trade group and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
BEIJING (AP) — A Chinese journalist who helped cover the Hong Kong democracy protests for a German publication was freed without charge Thursday following nine months in detention. Zhang Miao and three artists who were detained along with her last October also were released, their supporters said.
BANGKOK (AP) — Thailand faced a blizzard of international criticism Thursday, and its consulate in Istanbul was ransacked, after it deported 109 ethnic Uighur refugees to China despite fears that they would face persecution there. The U.N. refugee agency called Thailand's action "a flagrant violation of international law." The United States also condemned the deportations, and voiced deep concern about protection of asylum-seekers in Thailand. Amnesty International said that the Muslim Uighurs could face detention or torture in China.
TOKYO (AP) — Climbers who reach the summit of Mount Fuji will now be able to share their achievement via free Wi-Fi. A Japanese mobile phone network says it will begin offering the service Friday at eight hotspots on Japan's most famous mountain, including the 3,776-meter (12,389-foot) summit.
HONG KONG (AP) — Faced with a stomach-turning slide in share prices, many Chinese companies are taking matters into their own hands with a tactic that experts say is bound to backfire: they're pressing the pause button. About half of the 2,800 stocks on mainland Chinese markets have been suspended from trading as companies attempt to stem further losses by sitting out the market upheaval.
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — Young North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has executed 70 officials since taking power in late 2011 in a "reign of terror" that far exceeds the bloodshed of his dictator father's early rule, South Korean officials said Thursday. South Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung-se, at a forum in Seoul, compared Kim Jong Un's 70 executions with those of his late father, Kim Jong Il, who he said executed about 10 officials during his first years in power.
SRINAGAR, India (AP) — At least two Indian soldiers were killed in an exchange of gunfire with Pakistani troops and Kashmiri insurgents in two separate incidents in Indian-controlled Kashmir, Indian officials said Thursday. The fighting erupted ahead of a meeting slated for Friday between the Indian and Pakistani prime ministers on the sidelines of a summit in Russia.