2015-07~07
http://www.womenofchina.cn/html/womenofchina/report/15071664-1.htm

Religious Feast in Xinjiang Brings Han, Uygurs Together - All China Women's Federation
Kurban Mamut's family prepares dumplings for the local women's federation staff in Xinjiang on July 18. [Xinjiang Women's Federation/Sui Jian]
Women's federation staff from northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region celebrated Eid al Fitr with local Uygurs on July 18, marking the end of Ramadan, a holy month of fasting and reflection.
As Eid al Fitr is one of the most important religious holidays in Islam, the mostly Han nationality staff from local women’s federation took a tour to convey blessings and give gifts.
"We have prepared some food, such as dumplings, particularly for those staff, because we know that dumplings are viewed as a traditional delicacy and a must-have for the Han Chinese when they celebrate their traditional holidays," said Kurban Mamut during one visit.
As a gift in return, women staff from the federation distributed "red envelopes" to Kurban's grandsons, which were only handed out during Chinese New Year. Moreover, they presented other gifts, such as daily necessities and a set of family photos.
Neighboring villagers came to have a further exchange with those staff and officials.
Keen-eyed villagers paid close attention to Gao Peixiang, head of the staff, taking note of her clothes made from a local fabric known as Aidelaisi silk that sells well in Xinjiang and abroad.
"I worked in the local textile and fashion industry. Recently, all of our employees were trained to learn new techniques and styles of dress with the help of the women's federation. The clothes you wear are exactly what we have made," said one excited villager.
Locals described how they lived a more prosperous and happy life with the help of the women's federation.
The irreplaceable face-to-face exchange dispels the rumor that China banned Muslims from fasting during Ramadan in the face of rising tension between the central Government and Muslim populations from the far northwest.
Xinjiang has over 10 million Muslims, accounting for around 60 percent of the local population.
Muslims abstain from food and drink from dawn to dusk during Ramadan. As a practice in self-restraint and a respect to their God, the holy month lasted from June 18-July 18 this year. The end of a month-long abstinence is celebrated with a prayer, exchange of greetings and feasting, reaffirming the significance of loving one's neighbor in these cynical times.
Staff from the women's federation in Xinjiang celebrate Eid al Ftir with local Muslims in July. [Xinjiang Women's Federation/Sui Jian]
Gao Peixiang (L) visits locals during the Eid al Fitr holiday. [Xinjiang Women's Federation/Sui Jian]
Face-to-face talk between local Muslims and staff from the women's federation in Xinjiang [Xinjiang Women's Federation/Sui Jian]
A local Muslim expresses joy as staff from the women's federation in Xinjiang convey their blessings on the fast-breaking day. [Xinjiang Women's Federation/Sui Jian]
Kurban Mamut (2nd R) receives the gift of a family photo shot by the staff of the women's federation. [Xinjiang Women's Federation/Sui Jian]
Please understand that womenofchina.cn,a non-profit, information-communication website, cannot reach every writer before using articles and images. For copyright issues, please contact us by emailing: website@womenofchina.cn. The articles published and opinions expressed on this website represent the opinions of writers and are not necessarily shared by womenofchina.cn. 
Copyright 2005-2014 All rights reserved. Women's Foreign Language Publications of China.  Email: website@womenofchina.cn