2015-07~07
http://www.neurope.eu/article/erdogan-arrives-in-china-amid-tensions-on-uighurs-missile-system/

Erdogan arrives in China amid tensions on Uighurs, Missile System
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan (L) is directed by his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping to review honor guards during a welcome ceremony at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China, 29 July 2015.
Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan arrived in China on July 27 for an official visit amid growing tension between Ankara and Beijing over the treatment of China’s Turkic-speaking Uighur minority and a missile system.
Erdogan met with Chinese Prime Minister Li Keqiang shortly after arriving in Beijing. A meeting with President Xi Jinping was held immediately after a formal welcoming ceremony.
Erdogan has been a strong critic of China’s treatment of the Uighurs, who have garnered deep sympathy among many Turks, according to a report published by Voice of America’s news website.
Earlier this month, protesters outside Beijing’s consulate in Istanbul burned Chinese flags and harassed Korean tourists, who were apparently mistaken for Chinese. Some Chinese-owned businesses in the Turkish capital were also attacked, according to VOA News. In response to the violence, China issued a travel warning for its citizens.
Much of the Turkish frustration has centred on reports that Beijing is restricting Uighur religious traditions, including preventing Muslims from fasting during the holy month of Ramadan. But China, which repeatedly links Uighurs to jihadist violence in Syria and Iraq, denies any mistreatment.
Meanwhile, another controversial issue also tops the agenda between the two countries. This is about the long-standing talks between Turkey and China on the sale of a $3.4bn air defence missile system.
Turkey has agreed in principle in 2013 to buy the system from China, but has yet to sign the agreement.
Turkey’s English-language Hurriyet Daily News, quoted Erdogan as telling Xi: “At present, we are moving in a constructive direction, bringing more content to our strategic cooperative relationship,” Erdogan told Xi.
In turn, Xi stressed that Erdogan’s three visits to China as both prime minister and president, showed that he was attentive to Chinese-Turkish relations.
“We consistently advocate that China and Turkey should support each other on major issues and deepen their strategic cooperative relationship,” Xi said.
Turkey’s ministers of foreign affairs, transport, economy and energy accompanied Erdogan on his three-day visit ending July 30.