2015-07~07
http://blogs.tribune.com.pk/story/24441/is-the-new-silk-road-really-an-economic-corridor-for-china-and-pakistan/

Is the New Silk Road really an economic corridor for China and Pakistan? – The Express Tribune Blog

Luckily for Pakistan and its economic prospects, China plans to expand one of the three Silk Route channels into Pakistan. PHOTO: REUTERS
While the world is busy tackling the ISIS and its look-alikes in the Middle East, China, on the other hand, has other plans to chase.
One such plan is reviving the centuries old Silk Route, or the New Silk Road – a series of routes that were important in the past for cultural interactions and trade between the East and the West.
As part of this revival, China recently announced working on a high speed train from Lanzhou to Urumqi, capital of the troubled Xinjiang province. It is also rumoured that the train may, in future, reach out to regional states including Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Iran and Turkey, along with further reaching out to, and concluding in, Bulgaria (Europe).
With extensive visits to central Asian states by the Chinese president and penning a number of multibillion dollar deals with his counterparts, President Xi Jinping of China has ensured that his vision of the New Silk Road starts off on the right footing.
The progress on the project comes at an ideal phase in the Chinese economy, where the country recently surpassed the US economy in terms of its purchasing power parity (PPP). China’s PPP, in the current year, has reached a mammoth figure of $17.6 trillion or 16.48% of the world’s GDP, while the US stands at $17.4 trillion.
The Silk Road Project consists of three parts. The first part starts from Xian (China) goes through Pakistan and ends in Turkey. The second strand stretches from Bangladesh to Myanmar, whereas the third aims at connecting China’s Fujian coast with the rest of the world.
Luckily for Pakistan and its economic prospects, China plans to expand one of the three Silk Route channels into Pakistan, starting from Kashgar and ending in Gwadar via Karachi.
Funds have already been allocated for preliminary research to measure prospects of building one of the toughest routes that is ought to connect China and Pakistan.
Reviving the Silk Road economic belt was the brainchild of President Jinping, under whose orders research and development work on the project has sped up since the final quarter of 2013. China’s interest of including Pakistan in the project stems from its fears of any drastic US actions that could see Washington cutting of Beijing’s energy supply through various sea routes that it oversees, or controls virtually. That is where Gwadar’s importance kicks in. Controlling Gwadar means that China sits right next to the Persian Gulf, one of the most important oil trade corridors in the world. Also, China, being the largest global oil importer, seems to gain a lot from a fully operational Gwadar port by cutting down thousands of miles in transportation and millions of dollars in costs.
But this can certainly not imply that China is the sole beneficiary of Gwadar. Blueprints of the Pakistan-China Economic Corridor provide hope that the project, as well as the port, could spur economic growth in Pakistan.
India, on the other hand, has already voiced concerns over Chinese ‘ambitions’ of this new project, which it says is aimed at increasing Chinese influence both in the sea as well as on land. These concerns were put to bed by Gao Zhenting, councillor of the department of international economic affairs, who invited India to join this project citing India’s historical importance in the trade route.
Ironically, the United States also came up with its own version of the Silk Road Project seeking to expand its influence in the rapid growing Central and East Asian regions. But it seems that with ample time and cash on hand, China is in a clear lead.
The Silk Road Project’s prospects are also tied to regional stability and cooperation. However creative this project may be, it can’t be concluded without bursting cooperation from partner states. And one major issue at hand, for both China and Pakistan, is the brewing spiral of militancy in Xinjiang and FATA region. China has already expressed its discontent over the presence of Uighur training camps in Pakistan and has thus asked its neighbour to use an iron fist against such facilities.
If security concerns are thoroughly addressed, China’s greater strategic plan encompassing two major continents, while working on bilateral ties with states like Pakistan involved in it, could not only benefit Beijing and give it a long awaited economic hold, but could infuse life into dwindling economies of partner states – especially that of Pakistan.
The Silk Road Project, even with all its complications, presents a good lesson of a concrete economic vision for the long run.

The author is a PhD (Politics) Candidate currently pursuing his studies in Australia. He has previously completed his Masters in Public Policy and Conflict Studies from Germany. He also consults Islamabad-based Security think tank, Centre for Research and Security Studies, and occasionally writes for various news and media sources. He is specialising in Indigenous conflict resolution and counter insurgency. He tweets at @faruqyusaf

The views expressed by the writer and the reader comments do not necessarily reflect the views and policies of The Express Tribune.

I totally agree with the author. Rather I would go one step further to say that the importance of such an enterprise will be huge and benefits reaped by Pakistan will be great. I am not sure if India will object much, or long to this project, seeing that the project does not undermine the importance of its geographical location in the region, in the long run India may even benefit from the project(Providing that Pakistan and India start bilateral trade and open their border).
However the greatest beneficiary will ofc be China who will be able to influence the broken states of eastern Europe. Most of which have huge power vacuums. The USA and NATO company will most likely try to persuade some of these states to abandon or snub China’s plans but I personally do not see this working. China has emerged as The Global Superpower ever since they surpasses USA and there’s no stopping them now.Recommend
Great economic vision must be based on pragmatism and not dreams. Afghanistan, Pakistan and some central Asian states are suffering the debilitating consequences of terror assaults. Moving just one container from Karachi to Afghanistan entails not just heavy costs but high risks, who is going to guarantee or insure the movement of Billions of Dollars worth of goods ? There being no benefits for it, the Americans will not provide insurance, so who is big enough with deep pockets to do it and bear the losses when convoys get attacked. Todays good terrorist will be tomorrows bad one and they will keep changing roles depending on who is paying the pied piper. If China ever invests in such a project it will force both Pakistan and Afghanistan to give up on terror assets by holding their feet to the fire, not such a bad thing but very hurtful to those maintaining these assets.Recommend
Not certian about Pakistan but for China yes…it is paved with more than silkRecommend
There was a silk route (not road) connecting China to west Asian countries through greater India. It was when there were no automobile vehicles, railways, speed ships, airplanes etc. Reviving the silk route now is a waste of money. There will be no oil in gulf countries by the time this route is completed. Future is for solar powered ships, airplanes.Recommend
First it was USA that was pitched pakistan’s ‘strategic’ importance by Jinnah. Pakistan would become like Germany, S. Korea and Japan after WW-II with the help of USA, it was loudly claimed.
Then It was the Saudis, the brotherly country pumping dollars from the desert, will share its bounty with country with the ‘Islamic’ nuclear bomb and greatestestest Islamic army, it was loudly proclaimed..(.Well we all know what happened to the above two scenarios…)
Now, it is the Higher than Himalayas, sweeter than saccharine friend china that will share the booty of trillions of dollars in its bank, it is shouted from the rooftop.
…The future?…
..The americans threw dollars, the saudis gave madrasahs and the chinese will not give a penny, unless it received two in return from pakistan.
Moral of the post, nobody will do anything for Pakistan for free! Get house in order, Peace with all neighbors with an understanding that a ‘rentier’ state will always be a subservient to its master and can be discarded at a whim of the master.Recommend
The Chinese with their economic might can dream of projects of this scale but as of now the this dream can only be partially realised due to the unrest in many of the Arab countries and the uncertain nature of central asian geo politics, the realistic projects as of now would be connecting China with Pakistan and Burma as these countries despite their own share of problems are inherently pro China and would not take any step to antagonise China under any leadership and circumstances.
“India, on the other hand, has already voiced concerns over Chinese ‘ambitions’ of this new project, which it says is aimed at increasing Chinese influence both in the sea as well as on land.”
Yes that is a concern but India is not naive enough to believe that Chinese would not dream or dare of projects of this nature considering the progress they have made economically, it is just a fact which India needs to accept and learn from China where it can and hope we are as big an economy one day as China is today rather than complaining and cribbing like a bad loser.
The Chinese have funds, ambition and the intent, some would argue India has it too to an extent but none can deny that India pales in comparison, this is Chinese foreign policy in full swing.
Wow..reminds me of ‘The Bridge on river Kwai’…the Japanese death railyway built by the allied POWs from East to West-for the quick mobilization of the Japanese imperial army from Manchuria to Burma & beyond.With the Chinese already getting into territorial disputes with Japan,Korea,The Phillipines,Vietnam,India etc..it only makes sense that they would build railways in poorer countries like Pak or Uzbekistan etc. When war comes,these ‘trade railways’ will instantly double up to transport Chinese military,rapidly through foreign territory-perfect for the expansionist mindset of Communist Beijing…its win-win for the Chinese.Recommend
Its not for transporting oil. Its for transporting goods. Cutting down transport costs will make Chinese exports even cheaper and win them an even greater domination of the world’s industry and will also make Chinese imports (like food) cheaper.Recommend
The “New Silk Road as envisioned by China does not even touch Pakistan.
http://thediplomat.com/2014/05/chinas-new-silk-road-vision-revealed/
Look at the map in the above article.
(According to the map, the land-based “New Silk Road” will begin in
Xi’an in central China before stretching west through Lanzhou (Gansu
province), Urumqi (Xinjiang), and Khorgas (Xinjiang), which is near the
border with Kazakhstan. The Silk Road then runs southwest from Central
Asia to northern Iran before swinging west through Iraq, Syria, and
Turkey. From Istanbul, the Silk Road crosses the Bosporus Strait and
heads northwest through Europe, including Bulgaria, Romania, the Czech
Republic, and Germany. Reaching Duisburg in Germany, it swings north to
Rotterdam in the Netherlands. From Rotterdam, the path runs south to
Venice, Italy — where it meets up with the equally ambitious Maritime
Silk Road.
The Maritime Silk Road will begin in Quanzhou in Fujian province, and
also hit Guangzhou (Guangdong pronvince), Beihai (Guangxi), and Haikou
(Hainan) before heading south to the Malacca Strait. From Kuala Lumpur,
the Maritime Silk Road heads to Kolkata, India then crosses the rest of
the Indian Ocean to Nairobi, Kenya (the Xinhua map does not include a stop in Sri Lanka, despite indications in February that the island country would be a part of the Maritime Silk Road).
From Nairobi, the Maritime Silk Road goes north around the Horn of
Africa and moves through the Red Sea into the Mediterranean, with a stop
in Athens before meeting the land-based Silk Road in Venice.)Recommend
I do admire the analysis projected in this piece of information but one must realize that the economic corridors are always established as variables between two [or more than two] nations in order to enhance and explore the capability of economic opportunities.
I believe that this route project [Silk] would not be favoring Pakistan’s economy than China itself. China, the second largest economy of the world will not only have an access to the warm waters but it will also grip the ground all over south Asia, which is “somehow” unacceptable to big giants around.
On other hand, the project can affect the U.S security policies towards South Asia to maintain peace in the region. Hosting China in the current scenario seems like Pakistan, itself, is diverting it’s focus towards china without caring the facts on ground.Recommend
Did you know that Pakistanis cannot go individually to China, they have to join a group in order to visit.
Americans, Indians, even Vietnamese(with whom China has issues in the South China Sea) do not face such restrictions, if I’m not wrong.
And, you are talking about Silk Road(which Sridhar has pointed out doesn’t even pass anywhere near Pakistan).
Pakistan, like North Korea, is just a pawn for China. Chinese prefer to do business with India, US and Japan, than countries like North Korea and wanna-be North Korea.
Do you know China has more surveillance and resources on the border with Pakistan, than border with India?
Delusions of grandeur.Recommend
Too bad the most developed parts of China is around 3000 miles away from Pakistan. If you see their population density, its mostly concentrated on the other side of the Asian continent.
At most about 15% of the Chinese population, which is equal to the population of Pakistan lives near the parts adjacent to Pakistan.
Out of 1.5 Billion Chinese, 1.2 to 1.3 Billion live more than 2000 miles away from Pakistan.
It makes no sense for China to use the Pakistani route to ship goods. Yes, for its neighboring provinces, maybe. But, you can imagine the volume for just 100 to 200 million people, a tiny portion of 1.5 Billion Chinese.Recommend
I think I agree with you. If you will take a look at the diagram given above you will see a green “northern corridor”. I personally think that this is what the main goods corridor is going to be. The rest are just in place to monopolize the geography and to make sure that NATO does not start its own version of silk road.
In a nutshell they will get the real road, but they will also build other “lanes” just to keep those areas free from outside interference.Recommend
lols i belong to GILgit .We can go to china without visa only need a pass from local authorities .Correct ur info silk route is indeed pass through gilgit and joins china and pakistan now called KARAKORUM highway.SO stop using the null and void arguments used by your media to brainwash you.Indeed silk route is a futuristic and most important plan for our economy .ITs gonna connect central Asia and china to Arabian sea .Only the revenue earned through the transport of goods is enough to run our country.But USA never will allow pakistan to take such step which further strengthen china and russia.
BY the way INdia has shifted its policy from neutrality to being american pawn to counter China and RUSSia in asia and ur Pm is ready to be policeman of Asia for guarding american interests . be.Happy with that..Recommend
Modi means business as he said as a pakka gujratii.He as a nationalist never ever down India to be a pawn of anyone.Recommend
half of india have no toilets and use open toilets .Health facilities are nill and all basic facilities of life are not vailable to rural areas .Ur politicians wana more power wna be part of international power game its their thirst .THEy dnt care abt common people so teach you the lessons of nationlity and making india a super power and wat so ever..SO wat ???if india become a super power .Will it solve the problms of common indians heatlh education clean water and rampant power .I think india has got potential to thrive making india good place to live.
Its responsibility of india to ask pakistan to make deal on all issues and for sustainable peace ,its greater benefit for india than pakistan .ITs a big power so its a baseless narrative taught to indians that if we dont focus on making military powerful pakistan harm us.It seems totatly illogical as a army ten times larger than pakistan and militry power ten times pak how it is possible .ALways its smaller powrs focus on militry to counter larger power.
so dear indians ask ur politicians to work for comon indian people intersets instead of working for becoming a militray power in the worldRecommend
You do not know the first thing of Chinese Geography, if you did, it would dawn on you that oil, once offloaded on the eastern coast of China, has to transported across long distances to the western and central regions of that country, that distance alone is far more than the distance between Gwadar to say Kashgar! That logic, as well as the logistic not only puts a dnail in the coffin of the Malacca Choke point, but also saves phenomenally on inland transportation costs, to the Chinese. It is this economic spinoff that makes the Gwadar project worthwhile for the Chinese.Recommend
Hahaha… man u people focus on toilets.
Going china is just is easy and visa is free pf cost for pakistanis… thats not even an issue, those who are frequently visiting they have only cards.
And u r kiding when u r talking about the stats of distance and population, the article has clearly depicted china’s ambition of pursuing shortest way to oil rich gulf nations via pak. Recommend
wow that means half of the world that has economic ties with china is stupid and India itslef having a 200 billion dollars trade with china is also stupid and being part of the BRICS involving biggest economies is the dumbest decision ever :PRecommend
The thing is that Pakistan has such a strategic location that every second country feels the need of its cooperation. Be them Saudis, Americans or Chinese.
As far as American aid is concerned, they have given less and bullied more. They meddled in the internal affairs of Pakistan as they have the habit of doing in all countries they claim to be friend of. And for Saudi aid there was never a responsible authority for the supervision of the usage of funds.
Also there is a fact that the WB or IMF never give funds or loans for building infrastructure which in turn makes all the fund useless in terms of economic progress.
There isn’t any doubt that the plan would help China much more than it would help Pakistan. But the thing is that Pakistan is not investing much in the project apart from land and labor.
And as for the land, the amount of land Pakistan is investing will give a boost to the value of the remaining land of the country. And for the labor thing… well isn’t the majority of the population of the country unemployed?
The plan is not some illicit fascist scheme to get hold of the governance of the country. Quiet the vice versa. It is a plan or regional cooperation that benefits all those including in it more than they invest in it.
Only wish Pakistan strike up some same kind of deal with Russia thereby encapsulating the far-eastern countries right up to Russia in the same way. This will surely double the value of the same route as nearly all far-eastern countries are land locked.Recommend
Actually there is already Silk route for China in Pakistan and in case you haven’t noticed, Pakistan is also benefiting from it. And in all these year after being built, Pakistan never faced a threat from China as feet on ground or any other form of conflict or insurgency. So NAY, this wouldn’t hurt Pakistan in any sense while benefit it in every sense, be it economic or even military.Recommend
even if there is no oil remaining in the gulf, it (The Gulf) will remain to be a consumer market and China is the largest producer market in the world. When the ends of supply and demand meet there will always be economic growth, thanks.Recommend
Yeah right. The route linking one producer market to another producer market will be the main route. Man have you ever read strategic management and economics. I bet not. Because if you had, you would have known that the flow will take not take place as rapidly from one supply end to another as it would from a supply end to a demand end.Recommend

This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, redistributed or derived from.
Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2016 The Express Tribune News Network.
Technical feedback? 

