2015-07~07
http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/world/archives/2015/07/07/2003622480

Pakistan, India to begin process of joining security bloc - Taipei Times
Nuclear-armed rivals Pakistan and India are to start the process of joining a security bloc led by China and Russia at a summit in Russia later this week, the first time the grouping has expanded since it was set up in 2001, a senior Chinese diplomat said yesterday.
The Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) groups China, Russia and the former Soviet republics of Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan, while India, Pakistan, Iran, Afghanistan and Mongolia are observers.
“As the influence of the SCO’s development has expanded, more and more countries in the region have brought up joining the SCO,” Chinese Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs Cheng Guoping (程國平) told a news briefing.
“India and Pakistan’s admission to the SCO will play an important role in the SCO’s development. It will play a constructive role in pushing for the improvement of their bilateral relations,” Cheng said.
India and Pakistan have fought three wars since 1947, two of them over the divided Muslim-majority region of Kashmir, which they both claim in full, but rule in part. Pakistan also believes India is supporting separatists in resource-rich Baluchistan Province, as well as militants fighting the state.
The SCO was originally formed to fight threats posed by Islamic militants and drug trafficking from neighboring Afghanistan.
Cheng said that the summit, to be attended by Chinese President Xi Jinping (習近平), would also discuss security in Afghanistan.
Beijing said separatist groups in the far western region of Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur minority, are seeking to form their own state, called East Turkestan, and have links with militants in Central Asia as well as Pakistan and Afghanistan.
China said that Uighur militants operating as the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) have also been working with Islamic State group, formerly known as the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.
“It can be said that ETIM certainly has links with the Islamic State, and has participated in relevant terrorist activities. China is paying close attention to this and will have security cooperation with relevant countries,” Cheng said.
Comments will be moderated. Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned.