2015-07~07
http://en.cihan.com.tr/en/mhp-leader-defends-nationalist-protests-against-china-1815130.htm

MHP leader defends nationalist protests against China - Cihan

Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) leader Devlet Bahçeli has defended protests in Turkey that have occurred to highlight the Chinese mistreatment of Muslim Uighurs, saying the nationalist youth of his country should be able to exercise their “democratic right” to protest.In remarks published in the Hürriyet daily on Wednesday, Bahçeli said protests are also useful in raising international awareness on the plight of the Uighurs.“Our Idealist Youth are sensitive towards the oppression in China. They should be able to exercise their democratic rights. These protests are useful in bringing international attention to the issue as well,” Bahçeli said.Several demonstrations were held across Turkey to protest Chinese restrictions on Uighurs during the Muslim month of Ramadan, as well as other rights violations. During one protest, demonstrators attacked a Chinese restaurant, whose owner turned out to be a Turk and chef a Uighur. In another incident, protesters attacked a group of Korean tourists in İstanbul they mistook for Chinese.Both have ‘slanted eyes'When reminded of these incidents, Bahçeli said the attack on the restaurant could have been in response to an act of “provocation.”“I have explained this in television programs. The heavy metal [hand] gesture and the [nationalist] Grey Wolf gesture are very similar to each other. There is only a slight difference. What can we have to do with a person at the restaurant?” he said, apparently referring to the Turkish owner and the Uighur chef.As to the attack on the Korean tourists, Bahçeli defended the protesters' “mistake,” saying it is hard to distinguish a Korean from a Chinese as both have “slanted eyes.”“These are young people. Some drag them and these [young people] may follow them. Besides, what distinctive feature is there to be able to distinguish between Koreans and the Chinese? Slanted eyes… When they looked at Koreans, [they saw that] Koreans also have slanted eyes… Does it matter?” Bahçeli said.Relations between China and Turkey have become tense over the Chinese treatment of the Uighurs in the Xinjiang region, commonly known in Turkey as East Turkestan. Many Turks see themselves as sharing religious and cultural ties with the Uighurs, who have reportedly been banned from worshipping and fasting during the holy month of Ramadan.Nationalist groups took the lead in protests across Turkey and many protesters are believed to be supporters or members of the MHP or the Idealist (Ülkücü) Youth Clubs, a youth organization with close links to the MHP.(Cihan/Today's Zaman)