2015-07~07
http://www.newageislam.com/islamic-world-news/new-age-islam-news-bureau/anger-in-iraq-after-suicide-attack-on-marketplace-kills-115/d/103941

Anger in Iraq After Suicide Attack on Marketplace Kills 115, Islamic World News, New Age Islam News Bureau, New Age Islam
Muslims
around the world celebrate Eid ul Fitr. Women attend Eid al-Fitr prayers at
Parangkusumo beach in Yogyakarta. (Slamet Riyadi/AP Photo)
Senior Saudi prince accuses his cousin
of arranging for him to be drugged and abducted
Nuclear deal: Saudis signal they'll act
before Iran gets the money
Suicide bombers kill nine at Eid al-Fitr
prayers in northeastern Nigeria
Drone shot down in Pakistan made in
China: Chinese state media
NATO condemns explosion near a mosque
that left 3 killed, 14 wounded in Balkh
Explosion in Herat claims lives of 6
policemen in first day of Eid
Gen. Dostum: Ready to go to front line
if Taliban insurgency persists
Pakistan refuses to accept sweets
offered by India on Eid at Wagah border
Sri Sri Ravi Shankar receives threat
from Tehreek-e-Taliban, MHA reviews security
Tehran urges Modi to invest in Iranian
port to open up access to Central Asia
Pakistan violates ceasefire twice in 24
hours, targets Indian Army posts along LoC
Iran’s Ayatollah Ali Khamenei says
policy against ‘arrogant’ US won’t change
Armed attack, Suicide bombing left three
killed including senior police officer in Pakistan
Sanctions regime would collapse if
Congress 'kills' Iran deal: White House
BAGHDAD (AP) — An attack by the Islamic
State group on a crowded marketplace in Iraq's eastern Diyala province has
killed 115 people, including women and children, in one of the deadliest single
attacks in the country in the past decade.
The mostly-Shiite victims were gathered
to mark the end of the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, which ended Friday for
Iraqi Shiites and a day earlier for Iraqi Sunni Muslims.
Police said a small truck detonated in a
crowded marketplace in the town of Khan Beni Saad Friday night in what quickly
turned celebrations into a scene of horror, with body parts scattered across
the market. At least 170 people were injured in the attack, police officials
said, speaking anonymously because they are not authorized to brief the media.
Men quickly emptied boxes of tomatoes to
use them for carrying the bodies of small children, witnesses said, while adult
victims lay scattered around the attack scene waiting for medical assistance.
"Khan Bani Saad has become a
disaster area because of this huge explosion," Diyala resident Sayif Ali
said. "This is the first day of Eid, hundreds of people got killed, many
injured, and we are still searching for more bodies."
The Islamic State group claimed
responsibility for the attack in a statement posted on Twitter accounts
associated with the militant group.
Civilians inspect a crater caused by a
suicide car bombing at a busy market in Khan Bani Saad in the …
Iraq's speaker of parliament, Salim
al-Jabouri, said Saturday that the attack has struck an "ugly sectarian
chord," and added that government is making "attempts to regulate
Daesh's terror from destabilizing Diyala security," referring to the
militant group by its Arabic acronym. But anger is rife in the volatile
province, where a number of towns were captured by the Islamic State group last
year. Iraqi forces and Kurdish fighters have since retaken those areas, but
clashes between the militants and security forces continue.
"We went out to the market for
shopping and preparations for the holiday Eid in order to receive holiday
cheer," said another resident, who spoke anonymously for fear of
retribution. "But this joy has turned to grief and we have lost family,
friends and relatives, all because of this government's failure to provide us
with security."
Security forces were out in full force
across Diyala on Saturday, with dozens of new checkpoints and security
protocols immediately implemented in the wake of Friday's attack.
The Sunni militant group has been behind
several similar large-scale attacks on civilians or military checkpoints as it
seeks to expand its territory. The group currently controls about a third of
Iraq and Syria in a self-declared caliphate.
In August last year, at least 64 people
were killed in an attack on a Sunni mosque in Diyala in what locals believed
was a retaliatory attack against Diyala tribes that refused to proclaim loyalty
to the Islamic State group.
The United States has spent billions
arming and training the Iraqi military, but it performed poorly last year when
Islamic State militants swept across western and northern Iraq, routing four
divisions. The U.S. and a coalition of nations have been conducting airstrikes
on Islamic State positions in Iraq and Syria since last year, but it has not
stopped the group from making advances. The militants recently captured the
city of Ramadi, in Iraq's western Anbar province, and the ancient city of
Palmyra in Syria.
Diyala, which borders Iran, is the only
province in Iraq where Iranian jets are known to have conducted airstrikes
against the Islamic State group earlier this year.
Meanwhile, reports emerged Saturday that
the Islamic State group used projectile-delivered poison gas against Kurdish
forces in Iraq and Syria on several occasions last month.
Joint, on-site investigations by two
U.K.-based organizations — Conflict Armament Research (CAR) and Sahan Research
— concluded that IS forces used chemical agents to attack Iraqi peshmerga
forces and Syrian Kurdish People's Protection Units (YPG) on June 21, 22 and
28.
In the Syria attacks, IS militants
launched 17 artillery projectiles against YPG forces stationed to the south of
the village of Tell Brak in Hassakeh province. The projectiles released a
chemical agent which induced in some cases loss of consciousness and temporary,
localized paralysis. Twelve YPG personnel were hospitalized. Another seven
projectiles were also launched into civilian residential areas in Hassakeh.
View galleryCivilians clean up at the
scene of a suicide car bombing&nbsp;&hellip;
Civilians clean up at the scene of a
suicide car bombing at a busy market in Khan Bani Saad in the D …
In the Iraq attack, IS forces fired a
projectile containing a liquid chemical agent at a peshmerga checkpoint near
the Mosul Dam, triggering symptoms among the Iraqi forces that included
headaches, nausea and light burns to the skin.
The findings on the attacks in Syria
were confirmed by an YPG statement issued Saturday. The type of chemical used
is not known. The British-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights also
reported an apparent IS chemical attack on June 28.
There have been several allegations that
the Islamic State group has used chlorine previously in both Iraq and Syria.
The Islamic State group, which controls
a third of Syria and Iraq in its self-declared caliphate, has not commented on
the claims.
Associated Press writers Vivian Salama
in Baghdad and Zeina Karam in Beirut contributed to this report.
Beirut: A close alliance between the
US-led coalition battling the Islamic State jihadist group and Syrian Kurdish
fighters has racked up successes, but also stirred resentments that could
hamper the campaign.
Analysts warn that IS can only be defeated
in Syria with support from Sunni Arabs, many of whom are being alienated by
what they see as US favouritism towards the Kurdish minority.
In recent months, fighters from the
Kurdish People`s Protection Units (YPG) have repelled several IS attacks and deprived
the group of its key border bastion of Tal Abyad.
US-led air strikes have been key to
these advances, and Washington has praised the Kurds as a reliable ally.
But in areas where ties between Kurds
and Arabs are already tense, the alliance is viewed with suspicion and anger.
Osama Abu Zeid, a legal adviser to rebel
groups under the Free Syrian Army banner, slammed Washington for playing
favourites.
"We reject this policy of
supporting parties based on ethnic or sectarian affiliation," he said, accusing
the US-led coalition of sowing mistrust.
The Kurds "are seen as the darlings
of the West," said Emile Hokayem, a senior fellow and Syria expert at the
International Institute for Strategic Studies.
"They get intelligence, military
support and weaponry, they get the media attention, while the Arabs would say
they are suffering more, they are fighting IS and they are fighting (President
Bashar al-) Assad."
"The US coalition strategy has
favoured the Kurds and, in the process, has alienated important Arab
constituencies," Hokayem said. Suspicion and tensions between Kurds and
Arabs in parts of northern Syria have deep roots.
From the 1970s, the Damascus regime
resettled Sunni Arabs in traditionally Kurdish areas in a bid to dilute Kurdish
nationalist sentiment and win support from Arab tribes.
Fierce competition for resources also
created tensions between ethnic groups, particularly during the drought years
that preceded the Syrian uprising.
More recently, the Syrian opposition has
been angered by the Kurds` failure to join the uprising.
Instead, Kurds have maintained a tacit
deal with the regime to stay neutral and focused on securing Kurdish-majority
areas and building local governance as part of a dream of self-administration.
That policy has strained ties between
the main exiled opposition National Coalition and the largest Kurdish group,
the YPG`s political wing, the Democratic Union Party.
Relations have deteriorated further in
recent weeks as the Kurds have clawed back large swathes of territory from IS,
sparking a furious war of words.
The exiled opposition has accused YPG
fighters of "terrorism" and "widespread violations" against
civilians, including looting and the ethnic cleansing of Arabs and Turkmen from
captured villages.
Such allegations are angrily rejected by
the YPG, particularly after a spate of atrocities against Kurdish civilians by
IS.
"Daesh (IS)... is committing the
most heinous crimes against humanity. And when we expel them, the Coalition
comes out against us with false allegations," it complained.
Human rights groups are still
investigating the allegations, although the small, mostly Arab Burkan al-Furat
rebel force that fights alongside the Kurds says the claims are
"politicised".
Kurdish affairs analyst Mutlu Civiroglu
noted that the Coalition issued no similar condemnation when IS fighters killed
more than 200 Kurds during a recent incursion into the border town of
Kobane.Charles Lister, a visiting fellow at the Brookings Doha Centre
think-tank, said ties between the Sunni Arab opposition and the Kurds were at a
"new low."
"Since US-led coalition strikes
began... the Kurdish YPG has been the clear benefactor, while Sunni Arab rebels
have been placed under tough vetting procedures before even being considered
viable partners," he said.
On the ground, Sunni Arab residents of
Tal Abyad minced no words about the Kurdish fighters who seized the city.
Seyh Deham Haseki, 60, described IS as a
"much lesser evil compared to the Kurdish militants".
"We won`t accept the Kurds because
this isn`t their land. It has always been the Arabs` land. We will stand
against them until the very end."
Hokayem said the exclusive coordination
between the US-led coalition and the Kurds was playing into a potentially
dangerous Sunni Arab narrative in Syria.
They feel "that Arab suffering, and
Sunni Arab suffering particularly, is second to that of all other
communities," he said.
Eventually, that may undermine the war
against IS because Kurdish forces will not fight to capture non-Kurdish areas
like the jihadists` de facto Syrian capital Raqa, and Sunni Arab participation
will be needed.
"We are reaching the limits of the
US strategy," Hokayem said, urging Washington to "define, articulate
and implement a serious anti-Assad policy".
"Only when Arab Sunnis feel that
their own grievances are recognised, acknowledged and addressed will they be
able to see the Kurds as potential partners in the anti-IS fight."  , AFP
BEIRUT: Islamic State group fighters
fired missiles containing toxic gas at Kurdish forces in Syria last month, the
forces and a monitoring group said.
The Kurdish People's Protection Units
(YPG) and the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights both reported the late June
attacks in Hasakeh province in northeastern Syria.
The YPG said the attacks occurred on
June 28 and targeted the Kurdish-held Salhiya district of Hasakeh city and
Kurdish positions south of the town of Tel Brak. < ..
Senior Saudi prince accuses his cousin
of arranging for him to be drugged and abducted
 A
simmering feud at the heart of the Saudi royal family is poised to break into
the open after one senior prince accused another of orchestrating his
abduction, sedation and forcible repatriation from Switzerland.
In an unprecedented move, Prince Sultan
bin Turki has filed a criminal complaint in Switzerland against his cousin
Prince Abdulaziz bin Fahd, as well as the current Saudi minister of Islamic
affairs, Saleh al-Sheikh, claiming he was seriously injured as a result of a
kidnapping that took place in June 2003.
According to Prince Sultan’s lawyers,
the Swiss prosecutor Stéphane Grodecki has ordered a criminal investigation
into the case. “A complaint has been filed on behalf of Prince Sultan in
Geneva,” said the prince’s lawyer, Pierre de Preux. “A criminal investigation
has started and is going on.” Swiss prosecutors refuse to confirm or deny
whether an investigation is taking place.
The feuding princes are grandsons of the
founder of Saudi Arabia, Abdulaziz Al Saud.
The Guardian made repeated attempts to
contact Prince Abdulaziz and Saleh al-Sheikh, sending requests for comment to
Saudi embassies in London and Geneva, and to Prince Abdulaziz’s suite at the
George V hotel in Paris. Reporters also left messages at the embassies, at
government ministries in Riyadh and at the Paris hotel.
The only response came from a media
adviser to the embassy in London, who said: “I have sent your request on to the
appropriate people, as requested, but this is really not a UK embassy issue. It
is also a private matter between these gentlemen, not a foreign ministry
matter.”
The row pits two wings of the Saudi
establishment against one another. At the turn of the century, Prince Sultan
was a rare voice within the Saudi royal family calling for reform. Prince
Abdulaziz is the son of the late King Fahd, who ruled the country from
1995-2005.
Prince Sultan’s claim relates to a chain
of events stretching back to January 2002, when he began accusing the defence
and interior ministries of corruption.
In May 2003 he announced he would hold a
public seminar in Geneva to reveal the full extent of corruption at the
ministry of defence. A month later he attended an event at a palace owned by
members of the Saudi royal family in the Swiss municipality of
Collonge-Bellerive, just outside Geneva, along with the two accused.
Nuclear deal: Saudis signal they'll act
before Iran gets the money
The nuclear deal that will lift tough
sanctions on Iran is mobilizing Saudi Arabia to turn the tide against its
regional rival in Yemen and Syria before it makes an economic recovery,
military officials and analysts say.
According to the sources, the military
component of the Saudi offensive will include the use of special forces on the
ground in Yemen, and a potentially widened use of Saudi and allied Sunni air
power in Syria.
The Saudis have signaled their intent to
employ ground forces in Yemen previously, but have not done so. But the
potential military initiatives, coupled with signs that the Saudis are
cultivating better diplomatic ties with Russia and China, would be a strong
indication of how the Iran nuclear deal could impact the regional order in the
Middle East.
While many Arab leaders, including UAE
President Sheikh Khalifa, were quick to welcome Tuesday’s historic deal
bringing Iran back into the international fold, Saudi Arabia’s silence spoke
volumes.
Rather than reporting remarks from King
Salman, the state-run Saudi Press Agency carried a short statement attributed
to an “official source” maintaining that Saudi Arabia was “always in favor of
an agreement between Iran and the P5+1 group [the US, France, China, Russia,
the UK, and Germany]” but stressing the need to continue “the sanctions on Iran
for its support of terrorism.”
Muslims around the world are celebrating
the three-day Eid al-Fitr festival, which marks the end of the fasting month of
Ramadan.
The beginning and end of Islamic months
are determined by the sighting of the new moon.
Most Arab countries and Indonesia
declared Friday the first day of Eid. In countries including Oman, Morocco,
India and Iran, the holiday started on Saturday.
Eid celebrations begin with a special
prayer in mosques and open-air areas.
Damascus: Syrian authorities have released
more than 200 prisoners, many of whom were detained under
"anti-terror" laws, to mark the Muslim Eid al-Fitr holiday, a lawyer
told AFP.
Dozens of women were among 240 detainees
who were released on Friday, said attorney and leading human rights activist
Michel Shammas.
Most of the prisoners in Syrian jails
being prosecuted under "anti-terror" laws are opponents of the Syrian
government or those who have taken part in the uprising that began in March
2011.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights,
a Britain-based monitor, also reported the releases, but put the number of
freed detainees at around 350.
The monitor said most of them were
people who had been arrested at anti-government demonstrations.
"Syrian authorities released more
than 240 prisoners from Adra prison (near Damascus), most of whom were tried
before what is known as the anti-terrorism court," Shammas told AFP late
Friday.
Among those freed was prominent Syrian
blogger Hussein Ghreir, who was arrested in February 2012 along with fellow activists
Mazen Darwish and Hani Zaitani and accused of "promoting terrorist
acts."
A friend of Ghreir`s, who spoke on
condition of anonymity, confirmed that the blogger was "at his home in
Damascus and is in good health".
According to the Observatory, some 200,000
people are being detained by government forces in Syria in detention centres,
prisons and security facilities.
Among them are thousands of people who
have effectively disappeared since being detained, with their families unsure
where they are being held.
According to the Observatory, nearly
13,000 Syrians, including dozens of children, have been tortured to death in
government prisons since March 2011.
Last year, President Bashar al-Assad
signed an amnesty that was supposed to see tens of thousands of political
prisoners freed, but rights activists say that only several hundred were
actually released. AFP
DAMATURU, Nigeria: Suicide bombs killed
at least 64 people in multiple blasts in the northeastern towns of Gombe and
Damaturu, officials said on Friday, scaring people into staying home during the
Muslim Eid-ul-Fitr celebration.
Police say two women suicide bombers
killed 12 people at two prayer grounds in Damaturu on Friday morning as people
were preparing to celebrate the end of Ramzan, the Muslim holy month of
fasting.
Hours earlier two bombs killed 50 people
buying goods for the holiday at the market in Gombe, according to National
Emergency Management Agency spokesman Sani Datti.
Another 75 wounded are being treated in
two hospitals there, he said.
The blasts are blamed on Nigeria's
home-grown Boko Haram Islamic extremist group which has launched a string of
attacks that have killed hundreds during the Muslim holy month of Ramzan, which
ended on Friday.
The upsurge in attacks followed a
directive to create more mayhem during Ramzan from the Islamic State group, to
which Boko Haram has sworn allegiance. It also followed the May 29 inauguration
of President Muhammadu Buhari, who has sworn to defeat the insurgents.
Nigeria's new army chief, major general
Tukur Buratai, was in Damaturu on a visit to boost troops' morale on Friday. He
was appointed last week when Buhari fired the entire top echelon of the
military accusing them of corruption.
NIAMEY: Niger's army killed at least 30
suspected Boko Haram fighters as it searched for militants in villages just
over the border with Nigeria, security sources said.
The army launched the operation on
Thursday, a day after gunmen thought to be from Boko Haram crossed over from
Nigeria and killed at least a dozen villagers on the Niger side of the border.
Boko Haram has fought a six-year
insurgency to carve out an Islamist state in northeast Nigeria, and continues
to carry out cross-border attacks, in the face of a military campaign bolstered
by Nigeria's neighbours Niger, Cameroon and Chad.
"Our defence forces who are engaged
in the operation inside Nigeria between the towns of Malam Fatori and Damasak,
killed the insurgents on Thursday," a security source said, requesting not
to be named.
Boko Haram has started calling itself
the Islamic State's "West Africa Province" since pledging allegiance
in March to the hardline militant group which controls large areas of Syria and
Iraq.
Early on Friday, two suicide bombers, an
elderly woman and a 10-year-old girl, killed at least nine people in the
north-eastern Nigerian city of Damaturu as worshippers gathered to mark the Muslim
Eid al-Fitr holiday, a military spokesman said.
Boko Haram has targeted security forces,
schools and other Muslim communities who do not share its hard-line version of
Islam.
Suicide Bombers Kill Nine at Eid Al-Fitr
Prayers In North-Eastern Nigeria
Two suicide bombers, an elderly woman
and a 10-year-old girl, killed at least nine people in the city of Damaturu in
north-eastern Nigeria on Friday morning as worshippers gathered to mark the
Muslim Eid al-Fitr holiday, a military spokesman said.
They detonated their bombs at around
7.40 a.m. (0640 GMT) as worshippers queued for security screening to enter an
open-air praying area in Layin Gwange, Damaturu, Colonel Sani Usman said.
"Four persons died in the first
explosion and seven people were injured. While in the second explosion, five
people lost their lives and 11 people were wounded," he said.
There was no immediate claim of
responsibility but such incidents are usually blamed on Islamist group Boko
Haram. On Thursday, some 50 people were killed in bomb attacks at a market in
Gombe, about 200 kilometers (120 miles) from Damaturu.
Boko Haram has killed thousands of
people and left about 1.5 million others displaced during a six-year insurgency
in which it has tried to set up a state adhering to strict Sharia law in the
northeast of Africa's most populous country.
President Muhammadu Buhari has made
defeating the insurgents his top priority but since he was inaugurated on May
29 hundreds have been killed in bombings and attacks concentrated in the
northeast of Africa's top oil producer.
Buhari replaced his defense chiefs on
Monday as part of an attempt to step up the campaign against the militant group
and the insurgency is likely to be high on the agenda when he meets US
President Barack Obama for talks in Washington on Monday.
Boko Haram controlled territory around
the size of Belgium at the end of 2014. Nigeria has managed to push the
militants out of most of that with the help of troops from neighboring Chad,
Niger and Cameroon.
However, the militants have dispersed
and in recent weeks have carried out a string of attacks on targets in northern
Nigeria and the countries with which it shares borders.
Mogadishu (AFP) - The leader of
Somalia's Al-Qaeda-affiliated Shebab rebels on Friday issued an Eid message
calling for a wave of new recruits in order to "lift the pain of
Muslims" across East Africa.
In a statement that underscored the
group's ambition to expand its operations, Shebab leader Ahmed Diriye, also
known as Ahmed Umar Abu Ubaidah, took aim at Kenya, Ethiopia, Djibouti and
Uganda.
"The sword of the Mujahedeen is
drawn and attacks against the enemy are ongoing countrywide and we are calling
them to increase their attacks on the infidels," he said in a statement
posted on an Islamist website.
"We say to our beloved brothers
living in territories under Kenyan colonisation that your brothers will never
stop coming to your assistance," he said.
"You have to know that Jihad is the
only way you can free yourselves from the oppression and humiliation you are
now facing, so rush and join in the Jihad... and liberate your territories from
the Christians."
Diriye praised the April massacre at
Garissa university in northeastern Kenya, in which four Shebab gunmen killed
148 people, most of them students. The attackers were mostly Muslims from
Kenya.
"We congratulate you and the rest
of the Muslims in the world on the heroic Garissa university operation,"
the Shebab leader said, saying the massacre was retaliation for "organised
extrajudicial killings against clerics and kidnappings of Islamic youth"
along Kenya's Muslim-majority coastline.
"The time for the Christians to
engage in atrocities without accountability is over," he said. "We
pray to God to lift the pain of the Muslims in the whole of eastern Africa --
Ethiopia, Uganda and Djibouti."
"We will not spare any effort to
assist you, and the doors of our training camps are open to receive you and our
houses are open to welcome you."
The Shebab, meaning "youth" in
Arabic, emerged out of a bitter insurgency against Ethiopia, whose troops
entered Somalia in a 2006 US-backed invasion to topple the Islamic Courts Union
that was then controlling the capital Mogadishu.
Shebab rebels continue to stage frequent
attacks, seeking to counter claims that they are close to defeat after losing
territory in the face of an African Union and Somali government offensive,
regular US drone strikes against their leaders and defections.
Currently affiliated to the Al-Qaeda
franchise, there has been mounting speculation that the group could shift its
allegiance to the Islamic State group.
The Shebab were once a magnet for
foreign volunteers, but their capacity to recruit has in recent years been
eclipsed by the rise of Islamic State militants in Syria and Iraq, while
several foreign Shebab members have fallen victim to in-fighting and purges.
DHAKA: A leader of fundamentalist
Jamaat-e-Islami party was sentenced to death today by a special war crimes
tribunal in Bangladesh for commiting murders and rapes, including that of Hindu
women, during the independence war against Pakistan in 1971.
Forkan Mallik, 65, was given death on
two charges: rape and murder of a Hindu woman, and abduction and rape of a
woman and murder of three including the father of the victim.
Forkan was given prison until death for
rape of two Hindu girls in Subidkhali Bazar and deportation of their family
including the victims.
The tribunal acquitted him in killing of
four, including two Awami League leaders, and forceful religious conversion and
subsequent deportation of three Hindu brothers in Subidkhali Bazar, Dhaka
Tribune reported.
The three-member tribunal concluded the
proceedings of the case against Forkan on June 14 and tabled his judgment.
Sabina Yasmin Munni, a member of the
tribunal's prosecution team, said that the verdict reflected the wish of the
nation and that she and her colleages were satisfied with the court's order.
Since Bangladesh launched the war crimes
trial, the two special tribunals, set up by Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's
secular government in 2010, have handed down death penalties to over 15 people.

About three million people were killed
by the Pakistani army and their Bengali-speaking collaborators during the
liberation war when Jamaat was opposed to Bangladesh's independence siding with
the Pakistani junta.
JI had earlier has rejected the verdicts,
saying they are politically motivated.
Drone shot down in Pakistan made in
China: Chinese state media
BEIJING: In an embarrassing disclosure
for Pakistan, Chinese official media on Saturday reported that the
"spy" drone Pakistani army shot down along the LoC, claiming it
belonged to Indian security forces, was made in China.
The drone was "recognised in
Beijing as the Chinese made DJI phantom 3," the ruling Communist Party of
China (CPC)-run People's Daily said in a report on its website.
Quoting Shanghai-based Observer website,
the report said that the Phantom 3 advanced drone represents the most
intelligent, most powerful, and most accessible drone to date.
Observer says the drone sells for USD
1,200 each. DJI is a Chinese technology company founded in 2006 by Frank Wang
and headquartered in Shenzhen, Guangdong.
The firm manufactures commercial and
recreational unmanned aerial vehicles for aerial photography and videography,
it said.
The People's Daily report confirming the
Chinese identity of the drone may put Pakistan military in a spot considering
the close and strategic ties between Islamabad and Beijing.
The Indian Army and the Indian Air Force
(IAF) had already denied the allegations.
Questioning the Pakistani allegations,
foreign secretary S Jaishankar had said the "photograph of the drone in
question indicates that it's not of Indian design, nor of any UAV (unmanned
aerial vehicle) category held in the inventory of the Indian armed forces.
"It appears to be of Chinese
design, and is commercially available off-the-shelf."
India's rebuttal came as tension
escalated along the LoC, following firing and mortar shelling by Pakistani
forces. Indian forces have responded to the Pakistani action.
Beijing: If terrorists "dare to
continue doing evil things, they will be doomed", a state-run daily warned
Saturday, noting that the Chinese were not "meek lambs".
An editorial in the Global Times quoted
the authorities in Shenyang city as saying on July 13 that police "shot
dead three terrorists and wounded one who waved knives to resist arrest on the
same day, and the suspects were from the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous
Region".
The daily said that the arrest of 16
terrorist suspects and fatal shooting of knife-wielders has protected the
citizens` security and won applause.
The editorial wondered whether
"law-abiding citizens wield knives to resist arrest? If they did not try
to use force to resist arrest, how could they be shot dead on-site?"
The West never admits they support
terrorist forces in Xinjiang. "The terrorists in Xinjiang have been
counting on Western support and believe their use of terrorism is
justified."
"Chinese people are clear that some
Western forces are pushing the terrorist activities in Xinjiang. Although there
is not much China can do to counter their influence in this area, China will
not give up to such Western forces," it said.
The daily noted: "Some said people
from northeastern China are not meek lambs. Actually as anti-terrorism efforts
have been mobilized nationwide, police and citizens across the country are no
longer meek lambs."
"The potential terrorists have to
watch out, since if they dare to continue doing evil things, they will be
doomed," it added.
Kabul: A roadside bomb killed six
policemen in western Afghanistan on Saturday, as they were patrolling on the
first day of the Muslim holiday of Eid al-Fitr, officials said.
The bomb tore through a police vehicle
in Herat, a relatively peaceful province, provincial police spokesman Abdul
Rauf Ahmadi told a news agency.
"A mine planted by the terrorists
hit a police vehicle in Guzara district yesterday morning, leaving six
policeman dead and three more wounded," Ahmadi said.
The toll was confirmed by the provincial
governor`s spokesman Ehsanullah Hayat.
There was no immediate claim of
responsibility but roadside bombs have been the Taliban`s weapon of choice in
their war against foreign and Afghan security forces.
Civilians often fall victim to such
attacks with almost 1,000 Afghan civilians killed during the first four months
of the year, according to the UN mission in Afghanistan.
The blast comes days after Afghan
Taliban leader Mullah Omar issued a statement endorsing as
"legitimate" a nascent negotiation with the Afghan government representatives
aimed at ending the conflict.
Earlier in the month, neighbouring
Pakistan hosted the first face-to-face talks between the Afghan government and
the Taliban, reportedly supervised by US and Chinese representatives.
The meeting was said to have made
progress, with the two sides agreeing to work on trust-building measures and
hold more such sessions after Eid.
Afghan authorities have repeatedly tried
to jumpstart talks with the Taliban in the hope of ending the 13-year conflict,
but the militants have set tough conditions, including the withdrawal of all
foreign troops in Afghanistan.
NATO ended its combat mission in
Afghanistan in December, leaving local forces to battle the Taliban alone, but
a residual force remains for training and counter-terrorism operations. AFP
NATO condemns explosion near a mosque
that left 3 killed, 14 wounded in Balkh
Explosion-in-BalkhNATO’s Resolute
Support mission has condemned the explosion that left three killed and fourteen
others wounded on the first day of Eid-ul-Fitr in northern Balkh province.
Brig. Gen. Wilson Shoffner, Deputy Chief
of Staff for RS’s Communications says in the statement that: “Once again,
insurgents have chosen to target innocent civilians.”
“Their lack of respect for human life is
despicable.” He added.
The explosion took place in front of
Kangori mosque in Guzara District when prayers were leaving the mosque after
offering Eid prayers on Friday morning.
It left two children and a man killed
and fourteen others wounded.
There is no claim of responsibility but
officials say an investigation has been initiated into the incident.
Explosion in Herat claims lives of 6
policemen in first day of Eid
Explosion in HeratAt least six policemen
lost their lives in an explosion in western Herat province of Afghanistan in
the first day of Eid al-Fitr.
According to the local government
officials, the incident took place in Gozara district after a vehicle of the
Afghan police forces struck an Improvised Explosive Device (IED).
The provincial governor spokesman
Ehsanullah Hayat said the policemen were returning from a mission when their
vehicle was targeted in the blast.
He said the incident took place in
Zeyarat Jahi village leaving at least six policemen dead.
No group including the Taliban militants
has so far claimed responsibility behind the incident.
Herat is among the relatively volatile
provinces in western Afghanistan where anti-government armed militant groups
are actively operating in a number of its districts and often carry out
insurgency activities.
explosion foiled in KabulThe Afghan
security forces thwarted a plot by the militant groups to carry out an attack
in capital Kabul by detonating a Vehicle-borne Improvised Explosive Device
(VBIED).
Officials in Kabul police department
said the VBIED was confiscated by police forces from the vicinity of 15th
police district.
The officials further added that the
militants were looking to carry out an attack during the Eid days using the
vehicle packed with explosives.
Some weapons including Rocket Propelled
Grenade (RPG) launchers were also confiscated by the police forces, the
officials added.
This comes as the Taliban-led insurgency
has been rampant since the group announced its summer offensive earlier this
year and since then launched numerous attacks across the country including capital
Kabul.
The Taliban militants launched
coordinated suicide attack on NATO troops convoy and the Afghan intelligence
compound in capital Kabul nearly two weeks ago.
According to the security officials at
least three people were injured in the attack on NATO troops convoy while a
security guard of the NDS compound was killed along with three suicide bombers
in the second attack on the intelligence compound.
Gen. Dostum: Ready to go to front line
if Taliban insurgency persists
The first Afghan vice President Gen.
Abdul Rashid Dostum said Friday he is personally ready to go to the front line
to fight the Taliban militants if the insurgency activities by the Taliban
group persist.
During a trip to northern Faryab
province of Afghanistan on the occasion of first day of Eid al-Fitr, Gen.
Dostum promised to stand with the people of Faryab amid ongoing violence by the
insurgents.
He said the previous policies of the
Taliban group is not acceptable he said he is hopeful regarding the ongoing
peace efforts by the government.
This comes as the acting provincial
governor for northern Balkh province of Afghanistan Ata Mohammad Noor said
Friday that joint operations will be launched to clear northern parts of the
country from the militants.
Speaking during a ceremony to mark the
first day of Eid al-Fitr in Mazar-e-Sharif city, Noor said the operations would
be launched based on an agreement reached with First Vice President Gen. Abdul
Rashid Dostum and First Deputy CEO Haji Mohammad Mohaqiq.
The Taliban-led insurgency has been
rampant since the group launched its summer offensive earlier this year and
since then launched numerous deadly attacks across the country including
capital Kabul.
At least six policemen and three
civilians were killed and several others were injured during the first day of
Eid al-Fitr in western Herat and northern Balkh province of Afghanistan.
Pakistan refuses to accept sweets
offered by India on Eid at Wagah border
Amritsar/Jammu: With ceasefire
violations increasing tensions between India and Pakistan along the Line of
Control and International Border, the Pakistan Rangers on Saturday refused to
accept sweets from Border Security Force (BSF) officials on the occasion of Eid
at the border checkpost at Wagah in Punjab.
Border guarding forces of the two
countries have been following a tradition of exchanging sweets on festivals at
the International Border in Jammu and along the Attari-Wagah border in Amritsar
in Punjab.
BSF Deputy Inspector General in
Amritsar, MF Farooqui, told reporters that their gesture of giving sweets on
the occasion of Eid was not reciprocated from the other side along the
Attari-Wagah border.
"We give sweets on Eid every time.
The Rangers have not accepted it today. We always want to maintain peace and
tranquillity on the border," he said.
However, the BSF did not offer any
sweets to their counterparts along the IB.
A senior BSF commander at its
headquarters in Delhi told a news agency that the force did not
"offer" Eid sweets along the IB to Rangers as a mark of protest
against the ongoing spate of ceasefire violations along this frontier and also
the Line of Control (LoC) which have claimed few lives and injured many in the
last few days.
Officials said the exchange of sweets
along the Indo-Pak border during big festivals on either side takes place at
about 18-20 locations and at about 5-6 places the exchange did take place
today.
"While along all the iconic and big
meeting points along the border there was no exchange of sweets, at some small
locations in places like Gurdaspur (Punjab), Rajasthan and Gujarat the exchange
did happen," officials said.
Meanwhile, the Pakistani troops once
again violated ceasefire by targeting several Indian positions in Naushera
sector of Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir.
The Pakistani Army started
"unprovoked" firing on Indian positions at 9:25 pm and the firing
lasted till 11:45 pm on Friday, a defence spokesman said today.
He said no loss of life or injury was
reported from the Indian side when the reports last came in.
There has seen a sudden spurt of
ceasefire violations from across the border this month.
A woman was killed and six others,
including two BSF jawans, were injured on July 15 in firing and mortar shelling
in Jammu district by Pakistan Rangers.
On July 9, Pakistani troops had fired at
a forward border post in North Kashmir killing a BSF jawan.
On July 5, a BSF jawan was killed in
Pakistani firing along LoC in Nougam sector in 
(With Agency inputs)
Sri Sri Ravi Shankar receives threat
from Tehreek-e-Taliban, MHA reviews security
New Delhi: Renowned spiritual guru and
the Art of Living founder Sri Sri Ravi Shankar is facing major threat from the
Pakistan-based Tehreek-e-Taliban (TTP), media reports said on Friday.
According to reports, the TTP has issued
two letters to the Art of Living centre in which the terrorist outfit has
warned of a blast targeting Ravi Shankar and his followers.
The United States Department of State
has informed the Art of Living Foundation, founded by Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, of
threats from extremist organizations like the Tehreek-e-Taliban, said ANI.
The organisation's spokesperson Nakul
Dhawan had said the content of the letter read that if they go ahead with the
programme there would be consequences.
An Art of Living centre located on the
outskirts of the Pakistan's capital Islamabad was set afire allegedly by the
Taliban last year.
In view of the threat, the Home Ministry
has directed the authorities to review security of Sri Sri Ravi Shankar and
asked the intelligence agencies to verify the letters purportedly sent by the
TTP.
Sri Sri, as the spiritual guru is
commonly known, had visited Pakistan in 2012 and inaugurated the centre for his
Art of Living movement. He had also offered to hold talks with the Taliban to
usher in peace in the region, saying it would help foster understanding among
people with divergent views.
In March this year, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar
received death threats from the terror group ISIS while he was touring in
Malaysia.
Tehran urges Modi to invest in Iranian
port to open up access to Central Asia
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani has
asked India to invest in infrastructure projects worth $8 billion, including an
expanded role in developing a strategic port that will open up access to
Central Asia, Iran’s envoy to New Delhi said on Friday.
“The port of Chabahar in southeast Iran
is central to India’s efforts to circumvent arch-rival Pakistan and open up a
route to landlocked Afghanistan where it has developed close security ties and
economic interests. Rouhani suggested the larger role for India during a
meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the sidelines of a summit in
Russia days before the historic nuclear deal between Iran and world powers,”
Iran’s ambassador to India said.
“The potential between Iran and India is
great but we were just facing such a wall of sanctions, wall of American
pressure,” ambassador Gholamreza Ansari said.
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani (right)
had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Russia before the nuclear deal
Ansari said that with sanctions likely
to be lifted soon it was a “golden time” for India to seize investment
opportunities because of the two countries’ close trade ties and shared
interest in improving Central Asian transport links.
“Connectivity is the main policy of Modi
that coincides with Iran’s government policy,” Ansari said. “We have offered
them in connectivity $8 billion of projects,” Ansari added.
The Indian prime minister’s meeting with
Rouhani was part of a tour of Central Asia focused on increasing India’s role
in the region.
It was not immediately clear how Prime
Minister Narendra Modi responded to Rouhani’s offer.
India’s foreign ministry did not respond
to a request for comment.
Iran and six world powers reached a
nuclear deal on Tuesday, clearing the way for an easing of sanctions on Tehran.

India and Iran agreed in 2003 to develop
Chabahar on the Gulf of Oman near Iran’s border with Pakistan but the venture
has moved slowly because of the sanctions over Iran’s atomic programme.
The two countries maintained a close
relationship despite the US-led trade restrictions that halved their oil trade
to 2,20,000 barrels per day last year.
In May, India’s Shipping Minister Nitin
Gadkari and his Iranian counterpart Abbas Ahmad Akhoundi signed a $85 million
deal for India to lease two existing berths at the port and use them as
multi-purpose cargo terminals.
“Under the new proposal, India could
help build second and third terminals at the port as well as railway
connections into the rest of Iran,” Ansari said.
“India has moved slowly on opportunities
in Iran in the past, including the giant Farzad B gas field,” Ansari added.
Ansari said India was the “first
priority to develop Farzad B” but urged New Delhi to move fast.
“If they drag their feet, the market
will not wait,” Ansari said.
Pakistan violates ceasefire twice in 24
hours, targets Indian Army posts along LoC
Srinagar: Not paying heed to the Indian
warning, Pakistan violated ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) twice in a
span of 24 hours – first, late on Friday night and then again on Saturday
afternoon.
As per reports, Pakistan Army troops
opened small arms fire from across the LoC in Naushera sector of Jammu and
Kashmir's Rajouri district last night.
No casualties were reported in the
Naushera ceasefire violation in which several Indian Army posts were targeted.
Pakistani Army started
"unprovoked" firing on Indian positions at 9:25 pm last night and the
firing lasted till 11:45 pm, a defence spokesman said today.
"Our troops effectively retaliated
to the unprovoked firing from across the border," the spokesman said.
Hours later, Pakistani troops again
opened unprovoked fire at Indian positions along the LoC in Poonch district.
Defence Ministry spokesman Colonel
Manish Mehta said: "The Pakistan Army opened to unprovoked firing on our
positions on the Line of Control today afternoon in Poonch district.”
"They are using small arms and
automatic weapons. Our troops have retaliated using same calibre weapons.
Firing exchanges are still going on in the area," Mehta added.
There has seen a sudden spurt of
ceasefire violations from across the border this month.
On July 16, Pakistani troops pounded a
number of places along the International Border and Line of Control in Jammu
region with heavy firing and mortars, leaving four persons injured and
triggering fear among the villagers.
India lodged a protest with Pakistan
while the Indian troops retaliated "effectively" to the cross-border
firing which came ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's scheduled visit to
Jammu on Friday.
A woman was killed and six others,
including two BSF jawans, were injured on July 15 in firing and mortar shelling
in Jammu district by Pakistan Rangers.
On July 9, Pakistani troops had fired at
a forward border post in North Kashmir killing a BSF jawan.
On July 5, a BSF jawan was killed in
Pakistani firing along LoC in Nougam sector in Kashmir Valley.
Amid the rising instances of ceasefire
violation, the Indian Army has warned Pakistan of a firm response.
Indian troops will respond firmly and
effectively to Pakistani provocations as they feel fit and where they deem fit,
a top Army commander said earlier this week .
"We have seen over last two weeks
or so that the number of incidents have increased," said Northern Army
Commander Lt Gen D S Hooda said.
"The response has to be firm,"
the General Officer Commanding in Chief (GoC-in-C) of Northern Command said.
Asked about instructions to the troops,
he said "they will carry out firm response and retaliate effectively as
they feel fit where they deemed fit. Nobody has to look over the shoulder to
higher headquarter that this is what I need I need to do." (With PTI
inputs)
New Delhi: President Pranab Mukherjee
greeted citizens on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr on Saturday and said "on
this day let us forgive and forget our differences".
"On the joyous occasion of
Eid-ul-Fitr, I convey warm greetings and good wishes to my fellow citizens,
particularly to all Muslim brothers and sisters," he said in his message.
"May this auspicious day reinforce
in each one of us the spirit of generosity and compassion. Let us on this day
forgive and forget our differences," he added.
"May Eid-ul-Fitr unite people of
all faiths in harmony, solidarity and brotherhood and re-affirm our pride in
the composite culture of our great nation," the president said.
CAIRO: Yemeni government troops were
consolidating control of the southern port city of Aden on Friday, with only a
few "terrorist pockets'' of Shia rebels remaining to be cleared out,
according to a Yemeni government spokesman.
Ragah Badie said Friday that Aden was
under a security lockdown as troops try to capture a senior rebel leader,
Abdul-Khaliq al-Houthi. Aden's port, he said, will be opened today to receive
humanitarian aid ships that are much needed in the conflict-torn nation, where
over 80 percent of the population needs assistance, according to the United
Nations.
Some Yemenis who have fled the fighting,
which intensified in March when the Saudi-led coalition launched its campaign
against the rebels, are now returning to their homes in Mualla and Crater,
according to security officials and eye witnesses.
Meanwhile, an exiled official in Saudi
Arabia denied reports that exiled Yemeni ministers had landed in Aden, adding
that the situation is still ``too fragile'' to set a return date for them now.
Military officials also said government
forces will begin pushing north within two days into territory controlled by
the Shiite rebels, known as Houthis. Thus far into the Saudi-backed Yemeni
government offensive known as Golden Arrow, at least 150 people have been
killed, according to medical sources and government and Houthi officials.
The officials all spoke on condition of
anonymity because they are not authorized to speak to reporters.
Yemen's conflict pits the Iran-allied
Houthis and troops loyal to former president Ali Abdullah Saleh against an
array of forces, including southern separatists, local and tribal militias,
Sunni Islamic militants as well as loyalists of exiled president Abed Rabbo
Mansour Hadi, who is backed internationally.
The United Nations said Tuesday that the
civilian death toll in more than three months of violence has risen to 1,670.
Aden: Local fighters and army forces in
Yemen have wrested two military bases from Houthi forces overnight, residents
and officials said, building on a week of gains against the country`s dominant
faction.
The advances come a day after Yemen`s
government in exile declared the key southern city of Aden
"liberated," in their biggest victory yet in a Saudi-led air campaign
and civil war that has raged almost four months and killed more than 3,500
people.
Saudi-backed Yemeni forces backed up by
air strikes seized the Labuza army base in Lahj province north of the port city
and the headquarters of the 117th armoured division in eastern Shabwa province
some 230km (145 miles) away.
Officials in the anti-Houthi forces say
the offensive was planned for weeks and benefited from training and arms
deliveries from Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
The war in Yemen has pitted the Sunni
Muslim Gulf states, which support the exiled government, against the Shi`ite
Houthis allied to Iran, in a conflict that has further raised the stakes as the
Middles East grapples with regional rivalries and sectarian strife.
But power struggles have simmered for
years in the impoverished and conflict-wracked country, and fighters in Yemen`s
south -- the setting for most of the recent battles -- have long sought
independence from the North, the Houthis` home.
Residents said Houthi forces and their
allies in Yemen`s army made an attempt to regroup and take back northern
fringes of Aden on Friday, firing rockets at the Khor Maksar district.
Their push was repelled, anti-Houthi
fighters said, and an offensive backed by air strikes is underway to take Anad
air base, one of Yemen`s largest, 60 km (40 miles) north of Aden.
Iran’s Ayatollah Ali Khamenei says
policy against ‘arrogant’ US won’t change
Tehran: Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah
Ali Khamenei said on Saturday that a landmark nuclear deal with world powers
“won’t change” the country’s stance toward the “arrogant” United States
government.
The remarks were greeted by chants of
“Death to America” at a ceremony in Tehran marking the end of the Muslim
fasting month of Ramadan, which was broadcast live on state television.
Khamenei also said Tuesday’s nuclear
agreement would not alter Iran’s support for the governments of Syria and Iraq
nor its backing of “oppressed people” in Yemen and Bahrain, and the
Palestinians.
The comments reflected the supreme
leader’s longstanding position that Iran’s engagement with the six powers was
solely to reach a nuclear deal that was in its national interest.
The agreement, within a few months,
stands to give Iran relief from US, UN and European sanctions that have ravaged
its economy.
In return, Iran has pledged to place
curbs on its nuclear programme for at least a decade to assuage western
concerns that the Islamic republic has sought to develop an atomic bomb.
Iran has always denied seeking a nuclear
weapon, insisting its atomic programme is for peaceful energy and medical
purposes only.
Khamenei restated that position
Saturday, mentioning a fatwa he himself issued against any action seeking the
bomb.
He also stressed that the agreement with
Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States plus Germany was not yet
law and would have to be carefully scrutinised.
“They really took pains and worked
hard,” Khamenei said of the team led by Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif.
“The text that has been prepared,
whether it is approved or not, they have done their part and they should have
their reward,” he added.
As Iran’s supreme leader, Khamenei has
the final word on all policy matters, foreign and domestic, including on the
nuclear deal.
In numerous speeches before this week’s
accord, he appeared ambiguous about the talks, consistently talking down the
chances of success but at the same time hailing Iran’s negotiators as
trustworthy and brave.
Under a law passed last month, Iran’s
parliament must approve the nuclear deal but questions of whether the West’s
side of the bargain has been met rests with the Supreme National Security
Council, rather than lawmakers themselves.
The SNSC is headed by Rouhani and the
powerful committee reports directly to Khamenei.
The speaker of Iran’s parliament, Ali
Larijani, has said its members will not stand in the way of any deal that is supported
by the supreme leaders.
However, the recently passed act came
about after critics of the government’s nuclear policy, including members of
the conservative-dominated legislature, said they wanted a bigger say over the
negotiations with the West.
Armed attack, Suicide bombing left three
killed including senior police officer in Pakistan
Unidentified gunmen shot dead a senior
police officer in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan this morning.
Officials say Hairul Haseeb the
Superintendent of Police (SP) Elite Force Bannu was on his way home after
offering Eid-ul-Fitr prayers at the mosque when unknown gunmen opened
indiscriminate fire at him in Saleem Khan Area of Swabi district on Saturday
morning.
The gunmen fled the area before security
forces arrive at the area.
According to another report, at least
two people were killed after a suicide bomber detonated his explosives near a
shopping mall in Pakistan’s Balochistan province.
Officials say the suicide bomber was
wearing a veil (Burqa) and was trying to enter the shopping mall to target
shoppers during shopping for Eid-ul-Fitr near Hazara Town in Quetta city, the
provincial capital of Baluchistan.
When stopped by the guards, the suicide
bomber detonated his explosives leaving two people killed on Saturday morning.
Officials said that the bomber aged was
between 18-20 years of age and was carrying around eight kilograms of
explosives.
This comes as Pakistan is celebrating
its first day of Eid-ul-Fitr.
ISLAMABAD: Indian Border Security Forces
(BSF) resorted to firing along with the Line of Control (LoC) at Jammu and
Kashmir sector on Saturday morning, the Inter Services Public Relations (ISPR)
said.
The incident was reported on the first
day of Eidul Fitr at Neza Pir sector. However no casualties have been reported
so far.
Director General ISPR Major-General Asim
Bajwa in a tweet said, “Indians fire across LoC at Nezapir again. Pattern shows
they resort to such violations every festive occasion. Ironic they violate and
also accuse.”
The recent spree of firing at LoC has
been started earlier this week. Pakistan claimed that three people were killed
and five others injured in Sialkot's Chaprar sector, whereas another person was
killed in firing across the LoC in Rawalakot's Neza Pir sector in separate
instances of unprovoked firing by Indian BSF personnel.
Both Pakistan and India had accused each
other of ceasefire violations.
Indian Border Security Force (BSF) had
also claimed that Pakistani troops fired heavy mortar shells on Wednesday,
adding that one woman was killed and three civilians injured when one of the
shells exploded near a border village.
An exiled minority rights group slammed
a Chinese state television report on Saturday that suggested ethnic Uighurs who
had been forcibly repatriated after fleeing the country had returned to a
"heaven on earth".
The report came as China makes efforts
to keep its ethnic Uighurs from leaving the country. Hundreds, perhaps
thousands of members of the largely Muslim ethnic minority have left China in
recent years, clandestinely crossing into southeast Asia before making their
way to Turkey.
Friday's China Central Television report
showed two Uighur farmers in the far-west region of Xinjiang returning to a
peaceful life in China. One, a fruit farmer shown tending his orchard, says he
only fled the country because he was "confused" and
"muddleheaded".
"Religious extremism affected
me," said the farmer, whose name was given as Mexmut. "The government
approves our legal religious activities very much."
Local police found he had been coerced
into leaving and cheated, the report said.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the exiled
World Uyghur Congress, called the report a propaganda tool.
"(The government is) using
television to incite the Chinese people to antagonize the Uighurs because their
own policies have led to the reality of people fleeing," he said by email.
Xinjiang's government could not be
immediately reached by phone for comment.
Rights groups say such migrants are
mostly fleeing ethnic violence in Xinjiang and Chinese controls on their
religion and culture. Hundreds have died in unrest in Xinjiang in the last
three years, blamed by Beijing on Islamist militants.
Beijing says many of those fleeing are
extremists hoping to join up with other militants in Iraq and Syria. It denies
any repression in Xinjiang.
China has claimed that some of the 109
Uighurs deported from Thailand back to China last week posed a security threat.
Sanctions regime would collapse if
Congress 'kills' Iran deal: White House
Washington: The sanctions regime against
Iran would collapse if the Republican-majority Congress were to
"kill" the historic nuclear deal with the Islamic Republic, as
countries such as India, Japan and South Korea would no longer support any such
move, the White House has warned.
"The sanctions regime would
collapse if Congress were to kill this deal. What that means is that the
international leverage that we have previously used to reach this agreement
would vanish," White House press secretary Josh Earnest said.
"The key to the success of this
latest round of sanctions has been the aggressive enforcement of countries
around the world, including countries that aren't even a party to this
particular agreement -- countries like India, Japan, South Korea, and others
that previously relied heavily on the importation of Iranian oil -- and by
scaling back their oil purchases that had a negative impact on Iran's economy
but also had a negative impact on the domestic economy of those individual
countries," he told reporters yesterday.
Earnest said Iran would still obtain
financial benefits of sanctions relief. "The problem is, Iran is going to
get all of that money and the US doesn't get anything for it."
The nuclear accord was reached in Vienna
this week after almost two years of negotiations which ended in a final 18-day
stretch of virtually round-the-clock talks.
Because of the sanctions relief that's
being offered, Iran is taking a number of significant steps to curtail their
nuclear programme, he said.
"They're going to dramatically
reduce their stockpile of enriched uranium. They're going to remove 13,000
centrifuges. They're going to overhaul and essentially dismantle, or all but
dismantle, their plutonium reactor at Arak. And Iran has committed to
cooperating with the most intrusive set of inspections that has ever been
imposed on a country's nuclear programme," Earnest said.
"But if the US Congress votes to
kill this deal, Iran will get all the benefits of this deal without having to
give up anything," he said.
Based on the conclusion that's been
reached by "99 percent of the international community, Iran at some point
will begin to receive sanctions relief after they have taken demonstrable
verified steps to significantly curtail their nuclear programme," and to
make a public commitment that they will not obtain a nuclear weapon.
"Or Congress can vote to allow Iran
to get off scot-free, and to get all the sanctions relief," the
spokesperson said in response to a question.
Iran has always denied charges that it
was seeking to build a nuclear bomb, insisting its nuclear programme was for
peaceful purposes only.
Earnest said India along with other
major countries have supported this deal. PTI
New York: UN Secretary-General Ban
Ki-moon on Saturday condemned the terrorist attacks which killed more than 60
people across Nigeria during the past week.
Ban reiterated the UN`s support for the
Nigerian government in its fight against terrorism.
Fifty people were killed on Friday when
local residents gathered for prayers on the Eid, which marks the end of the
Muslim holy month of Ramadan.