2015-07~07
http://www.thailandnews.net/index.php/sid/234702019

Thailand News - China Defends Return of Uighurs from Thailand

Beijing defended the return of the group Saturday in response to international criticism by the United States, the United Nations and independent human rights groups who expressed concerns the Uighurs could be subjected to serious abuses upon their return.

"As we all know, it's a universally recognized crime to engage in illegal immigration or people smuggling by means such as using fake passports, which severely disrupts the normal international order of exit and entry," said Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying.

"The extradition of these illegal migrants back to China according to relevant international convention and bilateral agreements is a normal state-to-state cooperation in combating illegal immigration and people smuggling, as well as our international responsibility and obligation."

The Chinese Foreign Ministry also said it had lodged a formal protest with the U.S. State Department over its criticism of the deportations.

China's official Xinhua News Agency said 13 of the 109 repatriated Uighurs had fled China after being implicated in terrorist activities. Video on Chinese state television showed footage of some of the Uighurs sitting in an aircraft with hoods on their heads and Chinese police sitting next to them.

The Uighurs are a group of Turkic-speaking Muslims in China's northwestern Xinjiang region. Thousands of Uighurs have fled the region in recent years to escape what they say is religious and economic discrimination at the hands of Chinese officials.

The group repatriated from Thailand had been detained there for over a year as illegal immigrants. Bangkok said it deported the group after it was determined they were Chinese. A government spokesman said Thursday it had received assurances from Beijing the migrants would not be harmed, but the decision sparked angry protests in Istanbul.

China denies mistreating the Uighurs. It has launched a crackdown in Xinjiang, which has been plagued by violent attacks in recent years that Beijing has blamed on Islamic militants.
Following Chinese tourists' chaotic stampede and subsequent gluttonous gorging of piles of prawns at a buffet in Thailand, Phuket will be holding an etiquette course for guides working with ...
NAY PYI TAW, Myanmar - Myanmar's new president-elect told lawmakers Monday that plans to create a new ethnic affairs ministry were "vital" for the conflict-torn nation, in his maiden ...
Comments Your feedback is important to us! We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article. Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties ...
The tourist was identified as Perez Neftali who rented the room since March 10. Officials of Udon Mansion apartment told police that the man was staying alone. Police ...
A THAI driver who gained notoriety after causing the deaths of nine people five years ago has been accused by Thai authorities of breaching the conditions of her probation, which has kept her out of ...
SYDNEY - Environmental groups Monday urged greater action on climate change after the government declared the highest alert level over an epidemic of coral bleaching in the pristine northern reaches ...
The service was disrupted after a Suvarnabhumi-Phayathai train's electric system malfunctioned before it reached the Ramkhamhaeng station. Some passengers got out of the ...
MAJURO, Marshall Islands - Battered by massive cyclones, El Nino-fuelled drought and swollen king tides, fragile Pacific island nations vulnerable to climate change are leading the charge in ...
Thailand’s latest draft constitution is a push by the Junta to cement its hold on power, effectively shattering the country’s democracy. While the Junta ostensibly ...
Thailand’s power peak in 2016 is expected to hit 28,500 megawatt, according to an estimate by the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand under the assumption that ...
The Thai military junta says it understands European concerns over the constitution drafting underway, but says it intends to restore democracy. ';The government has no ...
A power breakdown prompted an Airport Rail Link train to get stuck in the rail Monday morning before panic passengers exit through the emergency exits after they unsuccessfully tried to break the ...
London, United Kingdom: Leaving the European Union could cause a "serious shock" to Britain's economy, with the risk of losing almost one million jobs, according to a CBI business ...
WASHINGTON - A 6.6-magnitude earthquake hit off the east coast of Russia's Kamchatka Peninsula Monday but was not expected to cause damage or fatalities, US experts ...
OVER?the last few decades Thailand has attracted expatriates to the country to work, stay long periods of time to explore the country, or retire. Thailand attracts many young ...
Thailand News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Beaches, exotic temples, ruins, good food, world-class services, snorkeling and scuba diving, hill-tribe culture, trekking, nightlife, exceptional handicrafts, classical dance, friendly people and beautiful scenery are among the main attractions of Thailand.
Thailand will appeal to anyone who is interested in beach vacations or archaeology, but especially to those who want to explore exotic cultures without sacrificing modern conveniences.
Sydney - Two pieces of debris found in Mozambique have arrived in Australia for experts to determine if they came from missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, an official says.
A huge search for the ...
Kunshan (China), March 21 (IANS) India were placed in a relatively easy group in the women's section but the men's team did not prove to be as lucky at the draw for the prestigious Thomas and Uber ...
Bangkok, March 20 (IANS) A Thai anti-corruption commission will investigate police officials who were accused of mishandling a probe into a car crash that killed two students last week, the media ...
Shillong, March 21 (IANS) Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday admitted that there was a need to strengthen security along the international border in the northeastern region to curb ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
PRETORIA, South Africa South Africa's ruling party, the African National Congress, on Sunday said it had full confidence in President Jacob Zuma in the wake of mounting allegations of political ...
ISTANBUL A Turkish militant with links to the Islamic State was the suicide bomber who blew himself up killing four foreigners in Istanbul over the weekend, Turkey's Interior Minister Ekfan Ala has ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
LONDON/NEW YORK - US business research provider IHS Inc. is to buy market-data firm Markit to create a $13 billion London-based data and business research provider. The deal joins a wave of ...
© 1999 - 2016 Thailand News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)