2015-07~07
http://www.aljazeera.com/news/2015/07/erdogan-china-tension-treatment-uighurs-150729045802164.html

Erdogan in China amid tension over treatment of Uighurs - Al Jazeera English
Meet the refugees who fled Syria for the Gaza Strip
29 Jul 2015 08:54 GMT | Politics, Middle East, China, Thailand, Turkey
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has arrived in Beijing to hold talks with his Chinese counterpart and other senior officials amid increased tensions between the two countries over China's treatment of its Muslim Uighur minority.
Erdogan, who is due to meet Xi Jinping later on Wednesday, has repeatedly accused China of systematic oppression against the Uighurs, who share close linguistic, cultural and religious ties with Turks.
The president has previously accused Beijing of "genocide" in the region, and the gap between Chinese and Turkish views of the Uighurs are likely to complicate the upcoming discussions on improving relations.
The two sides engaged in a row this year over Uighurs who fled China to seek refuge in Thailand, with Turkey offering them shelter against Beijing's wishes.
Bangkok said this month that it had deported about 100 Uighurs back to China, after sending more than 170 Uighur women and children to Turkey in late June.
China's state-run China Daily said in a Wednesday editorial that the "Uighur issue ... if left unattended, may poison ties and derail cooperation".
The newspaper suggested that Beijing would pressure Erdogan to stop Turkish officials issuing Uighurs who "illicitly left China" with travel documents.
As tensions over the refugees mounted this month, activists stormed the Thai consulate in Istanbul and burned the Chinese flag outside Beijing's consulate in the city. China "strongly condemned" the acts.
Turkey entered discussions in 2013 with a Chinese state-run company over an anti-missile system contract worth $3.4bn, raising eyebrows among other NATO members.
A final deal has been elusive, with Erdogan noting "impediments" have emerged after an initial Chinese proposal, but he said the issue will be on the agenda in Beijing.
"Any offer that will enrich this appropriate proposal will be welcomed by us," he told China's official news agency Xinhua in an interview published on Tuesday.
"I believe this visit will give more momentum to bilateral relations."
Boosting Turkish exports to China is also likely to be high on Erdogan's agenda, with Ankara running a large trade deficit with the world's second-largest economy, according to official Chinese statistics.
China responds to protests as relations worsen over Beijing's policies towards the Muslim Uighur minority.
Foreign ministry says Chinese tourists recently "attacked and disturbed" in Istanbul protests over treatment of Uighurs.

 Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
 are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
 or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
 global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
 accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.

During the first two weeks of March, at least 1,428 were arrested for breaching Hungary's border fence with Serbia.
As Obama prepares to visit, questions remain over whether the embargo will be lifted and the future of Guantanamo Bay.
Are memes calling the Irish "the first slaves" an attempt to derail conversations about slavery and modern-day racism?
Palestinian American Farouk Shami is an associate who says the Republican candidate would make a "great president".
China responds to protests as relations worsen over Beijing's policies towards the Muslim Uighur minority.
Foreign ministry says Chinese tourists recently "attacked and disturbed" in Istanbul protests over treatment of Uighurs.
At unprecedented joint press conference, US and Cuban presidents go toe-to-toe on human rights and economic punishment.
Moscow warns it will act unilaterally in response to alleged ceasefire infringements by Syrian rebels starting Tuesday.
Latin American migrants risk life and limb to reach the US border in search of the American dream.
The incredible story of 18 cows that became Israel's most wanted fugitives and symbols of Palestinian resistance.
Five years after the revolution, Tunisia's black minority has yet to experience the freedoms enjoyed by other citizens.