2015-07~07
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/diplomacy-defence/article/1838244/uygurs-deported-thailand-wanted-carry-out-jihad-middle

Uygurs deported from Thailand wanted to carry out jihad in Middle East, China's state media says | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Hundreds, possibly thousands, of Uygurs keen to escape unrest in the western Xinjiang region have travelled clandestinely via Southeast Asia to Turkey
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Some of the Uygurs deported to China last week from Thailand had planned to go to Syria and Iraq to carry out jihad, state television said, showing pictures of them being bundled out of an aircraft with black hoods over their heads.
Hundreds, possibly thousands, of Uygurs keen to escape unrest in the western Xinjiang region have travelled clandestinely via Southeast Asia to Turkey.
China is home to about 20 million Muslims spread across its vast territory, only a portion of whom are Uygurs, who speak a Turkic language and are from Xinjiang.
Last week's deportation of 109 Uygurs from Thailand has sparked anger in Turkey, home to a large Uygur diaspora, and fed concern among rights groups and the United States they could be mistreated upon their return.
In a report on Saturday, state TV said some of those deported had admitted to being incited by messages from the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which Beijing says is waging an insurgency for independence in Xinjiang, as well as the exiled group, the World Uygur Congress.
"A fair number of them were stirred up and bewitched by terror videos issued by the East Turkestan Islamic Movement and World Uygur Congress," the report said.
"While they were being trafficked, there were those who continued to impart and stress religious extremist thinking, instigating them to go to Syria and Iraq to take part in a so-called jihad," it added.
A senior Chinese police officer said on Saturday some of the Uygurs who reached Turkey were being sold to fight for groups, such as Islamic State, as "cannon fodder".
At least 13 of those returned were suspected of terror offences, the report said.
It showed images of people with black hoods over their heads and large numbers pinned to their chests as they sat in a commercial aircraft surrounded by Chinese police in face masks.
Beijing denies accusations by human rights groups that it restricts the Uygurs' religious freedoms.
Dilxat Rexit, spokesman for the congress, said the pictures of Uygurs in hoods showed they had been "stripped of their dignity", adding they wanted to leave China and live elsewhere without fear of discrimination.