2015-07~07
http://en.cihan.com.tr/en/treatment-of-uighurs-in-china-sparks-protests-across-turkey-1813042.htm

Treatment of Uighurs in China sparks protests across Turkey - Cihan

Protests have been held across Turkey to condemn bans imposed on religious practices by the predominantly Muslim Uighur people in China's far western region of Xinjiang and killings of Uighurs by Chinese police. The Muslim holy month of Ramadan is a sensitive time in Xinjiang because Uighurs face bans on fasting and other forms of repression for practicing their religion, rights groups have said. The killing of at least 18 Uighurs by Chinese police in late June this year and strict controls by local governments in Xinjiang on the Islamic faith, including restrictions on fasting during Ramadan, have been strongly condemned in Turkey.In the western city of Balıkesir, protesters gathered at Ali Hikmet Paşa Square on Thursday. Speaking at the event, Civil Servants' Trade Union (Memur-Sen) Balıkesir branch Chairman Ahmet Gür said that Uighurs in Xinjiang are subject to oppressive measures such as arbitrary detentions, the harassment of women with headscarves and the prevention of Uighurs from fasting. Earlier in June, state media and government websites in Xinjiang published official notices demanding that members of the ruling Communist Party, civil servants, students and teachers in particular not observe Ramadan, in a repeat of last year's clampdown. The İstanbul Consulate of the People's Republic of China, however, denied the media reports and said Muslims freely enjoy the right to fast in Xinjiang Autonomous Region. "The People's Republic of China's constitution guarantees freedom of religion and faith for Chinese citizens. In the People's Republic of China, no state institution, social association or individual can force people to believe in a religion or not to believe, nor can they discriminate between believers and non-believers. The People's Republic of China attaches great importance to the religious freedom of Muslims in Xinjiang, respects it and guarantees those liberties," the Consulate said in a press statement.Gür further said that Uighurs are subject to forced cultural assimilation due to the imposition of Mandarin Chinese as the official language in the region, bans on teaching the Quran and limitations of freedom of travel. He also called on Turkish people to boycott Chinese goods. In the central province of Aksaray, a funeral prayer in absentia was held at the Ulu Cami (Great Mosque) on Thursday for the deceased Uighurs, followed by a press statement from the Anatolian Youth Association. Speaking on behalf of the group, Ramazan Özbek, a board member of the association's Aksaray branch, called on the Chinese government to bring an end to oppressive policies against Uighurs.Similar protests were held in provinces such as Karabük, Gümüşhane, Giresun and Adıyaman, where groups of protesters gathered in squares, demanding that the Xinjiang authorities stop clamping down on Islamic observance.China expresses displeasure with Turkey's acceptance of UighursBeijing has expressed its displeasure with Turkey for accepting as refugees 173 members of the Uighur ethnic minority who have fled China.Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said on Friday that Beijing opposes "any actions that aid and abet or even support illegal migration." The group of Uighurs, mostly women and children, arrived in İstanbul on Tuesday and are being settled in the central city of Kayseri. Turkey has ethnic and linguistic ties to the Uighur people. The group has complained of cultural and religious suppression as well as economic marginalization under Chinese rule.(Cihan/Today's Zaman)