2015-07~07
http://samuel-warde.com/2015/07/cenk-uygur-slams-netanyahu/

Cenk Uygur Slams Netanyahu & GOP For Lying & Promoting War: It Won't Be Their Kids Who Will Die
Foreign Policy · Republican Logic · Republicans · Smackdowns · Videos · War
Cenk Uygur, the founder of TYT (The Young Turks), Wolf PAC, and a Daily Kos contributor, has released a new YouTube video on Wednesday hotly calling out Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Republican lawmakers who threaten to sabotage the Iranian Peace Deal. Uygur breaks down lie after lie being put out by war criminals like Netanyahu and Dick Cheney and stresses if the deal is shot down, there will be a war – and it won’t be the children of these war mongers who will go into battle and die.
The attacks will continue relentlessly until Right Wing extremists get their war. It’s crucial to counter attack their lies by exposing the truth. The pubic needs to understand what is happening. When the Iraq War started a decade ago, we did not have social media. We now have the ability to spread the truth to the masses. What an immense responsibly and glorious power ‘we the people’ now possess.
#NoIranWar

Special thanks to Rachael Christine and Facebook page Americans Against Republican Wars.
Please take a moment to like us on Facebook & share this:
This definitely worth a watch. As usual, Cenk tells it like it is, and points out the lies of the Republicans about this peace treaty. And, like he said, it won't be their kids sent to war to be killed and maimed....it will be yours.
The US should cut all aid to Israel until that nation stops breaking international law.
I am sick of Israel treating us like subordinates and the politicians who kiss Nuttyyahoo's shoes. We give an unbelievable amount of money to Israel! Let's keep it here to help Americans. How we treat our veterans and our poor is a disgrace!
How many American religious leaders (bishops, TV Evangelists, huge church preachers, etc.) are in the National Guard, Reserves, or Active Duty, and are willing to back up their bluster with their own lives?
Just a MINOR CORRECTION--This Iraq War did not start a decade ago--in fact it didn't start two decades ago. It started 25 YEARS AGO. And until journalists, historians, people like your good selves start culturizing that truth in our remarks, we will be "half-truthers" if not half-wits.
The building of offensive air bases in Saudi Arabia from which to wage "Desert Storm" is THE event that drew the ire of Usama Bin Laden on the US. It is the reason for BOTH World Trade Center attacks and it is the handy-work of one monstrous mind who sits at the center of an "axis of evil" on our side--Dick Cheney. The passage of a decade between theaters of the same war does no nullify the triggering first theater of that two-phase war. How many of you believe the neo-cons would have singled out Saddam for the 2003 War if they were not harboring deep-seated motivations that had everything to do with how "Desert Storm" played out? Don't answer to quickly--give it some thought.
The first WTC attack came so soon after old man Bush vacated the White House chair that one SHOULD wonder if that attack was not hurried because its perpetrators did not expect Bush to lose the election (thanks to Perot) and this was as close as they could possibly come to making their political statement while he was in office. Americans with short new cycles had already adjusted to Clinton, but the bombing came only a month after his inauguration. It's plottters likely did NOT think in such short new cycles, and the WTC attack failed to level the towers anyway. Bin Laden didn't want a war with Clinton/Gore--that would be unfulfilling. But to have Bush-Cheney back in the White House was irresistible. And Cheney wound up doing what Cheney does.

 Designed by WynnWoods Solutions Powered by Liberals Unite - 
 Designed by WynnWoods Solutions
 
 

