2015-07~07
http://www.scmp.com/news/world/article/1835642/moment-asian-woman-was-almost-attacked-pro-uygur-protesters-turkey-who

Moment Asian woman was almost attacked by pro-Uygur protesters in Turkey who 'presumed she was Chinese' | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Pro-Uygur protesters in Turkey have tried to attack an Asian tourist after apparently presuming she was Chinese, a day after the Thai Consulate in Istanbul was vandalised over the repatriation of almost 100 Uygurs from Thailand to China.
The incident, which was caught on camera outside the Thai embassy in the capital Ankara yesterday, shows a clearly frightened female tourist being surrounded by about 20 angry protestors who appear to assume she is a Chinese citizen.
The woman, whose nationality was not immediately clear, was quickly shielded and removed from the scene by an unidentified local man.
“I wish we could kill all of them, but we cannot act like this,” a man can be heard saying in the video, according to Hurriyet Daily News.
The scuffle came on the same day Thailand’s prime minister defended the controversial decision to return the Uygur Muslim migrants to China despite rights groups’ fears they could face ill-treatment. He insisted it was not Bangkok’s fault if they suffered problems.
“If we send them back (to China) and there is a problem that is not our fault,” said Prime Minister Prayuth, the general who led a coup against Thailand’s elected government in May 2014.
Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha also raised the possibility of shutting the Thai Embassy in Turkey following the protests if staff were being put at risk. 
The honorary consulate in Istanbul was attacked on Wednesday, with protestors smashing windows and ransacking parts of the building.
The embassy attack was one of many protests that have taken place across Turkey in the past few days, dealing a blow to relations between China and Turkey which have noticeably improved over the last few years.
Some Turks see themselves as sharing a common cultural and religious heritage with their Uyghur “brothers” and Turkey is home to a large Uyghur diaspora.
On Saturday, Turkish nationalists attacked a group of South Korean tourists in the heart of Istanbul’s old city, believing they were Chinese.
Turkish media reported on Thursday the China Philharmonic Orchestra cancelled a performance scheduled to take place in Istanbul in mid-August in the face of the protests.
Opposition Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) chief Devlet Bahceli added further fuel to the fire by saying the Saturday attack on the Koreans was understandable given that both peoples have “slitty eyes”.
China’s treatment of its Turkic language-speaking Uygurs minority is a sensitive issue in Turkey and has strained bilateral ties ahead of a planned visit to Beijing this month by President Tayyip Erdogan.
Erdogan said he planned to raise the plight of the Uygurs during the trip. He also criticised the attacks on Asian tourists in Turkey, saying the attackers betrayed Turkey’s “most ancient tradition” of hospitality.
Hundreds, possibly thousands, of Uyghurs keen to escape unrest in China’s western Xinjiang region have travelled clandestinely via Southeast Asia to Turkey. China is home to about 20 million Muslims spread across its vast territory, only a portion of whom are Uyghurs.
The United States condemned the deportations and asked Thailand to stop them, saying the Uyghurs could face harsh treatment in China, State Department spokesman John Kirby said.
“We strongly urge the government of Thailand, and other governments in countries where Uyghurs have taken refuge, not to carry out further forced deportations of ethnic Uyghurs,” Kirby said.
He also urged China to ensure proper treatment of the Uyghurs.
Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for China’s foreign ministry, would not confirm whether the Uyghurs had been deported to China but spoke in general terms about the issue at a daily news briefing in Beijing on Thursday, saying the Uyghurs were “firstly Chinese”.
Beijing denies restricting the Uyghurs’ religious freedoms and blames Islamist militants for a rise in violent attacks in Xinjiang in the past three years in which hundreds have died.