2015-07~07
http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/world/archives/2015/07/13/2003622930

Uighurs on way to wage jihad: China - Taipei Times
China’s official news agency said that 109 ethnic Uighurs, who Thailand deported to China amid international criticism that the refugees could face persecution, had been on their way to Turkey, Syria or Iraq to help wage war.
On Thursday, Thai authorities sent back the Uighurs, who had been in Thailand for more than a year and claimed to be Turkish, after determining that they were Chinese.
China’s Xinhua news agency said late on Saturday that the 109 illegal immigrants had been on their way “to join jihad,” and that 13 of them had fled China after being implicated in terrorist activities.
Another two had escaped detention, Xinhua said, citing the Chinese Ministry of Public Security.
The ministry’s Criminal Investigation Department division head Tong Bishan (童碧山) said Uighurs are being given Turkish identity papers in Southeast Asia by Turkish diplomats and then taken to Turkey, where some are sold to fight for groups like the Islamic State as “cannon fodder.”
Beijing says the Turkic language-speaking Uighur minority are firstly Chinese nationals, and those who flee China should be returned to their home region.
“Turkish embassies in Southeast Asia will give them proof of identity,” Tong told a small group of foreign reporters in Beijing. “They are obviously Chinese, but they will give them identities as Turkish nationals.”
Tong said that hundreds of Uighurs had been given documents by Turkish diplomats, especially in Kuala Lumpur, and then allowed into Turkey.
Neither the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor the Turkish Embassy in Kuala Lumpur were able to immediately provide comment.
Upon arriving, they have no chance of finding legal work and some end up with extremist groups, Tong said.
“They are very easily controlled by certain local forces, especially the East Turkestan Islamic Movement and other terrorist groups. They organize the youths, they brainwash them and get them to the front line to fight. They are cannon fodder,” Tong said.
“There is competition for them. Some are sent to Iraq, some to Syria. The terrorist groups there lack people. They will snatch people away. The terrorist groups will pay, at least [US]$2,000 a person. It’s their way of recruiting soldiers,” Tong said.
Tong, who has been helping lead the Chinese effort to get Uighurs in Southeast Asia back to China, said he did not know how many Uighurs were now fighting for Islamic State.
However, he said they have found propaganda videos and messages on the mobile phones and computers of some of those who have been returned, including pictures of dead fighters and promises of the joys to come in the afterlife.
“We are providing education and support, to tell them what real Islam is about. They’ve been listening to and watching stuff on the Internet, from irregular imams,” he said.
Beijing denies the accusations of human rights groups that it restricts the Uighurs’ religious freedoms. It blames Islamist militants for a rise in violent attacks in Xinjiang in the past three years in which hundreds have died.
Tong said that concern the Uighurs would be mistreated upon their return was simply an attempt to “demonize” China, and said they were being well looked after, though those suspected of crimes will be prosecuted.
The repatriations on Thursday were criticized by the UN Refugee Agency as “a flagrant violation of international law.”
Comments will be moderated. Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned.