2015-07~07
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/society/article/1839257/raid-shenyang-points-terrorists-spreading-across-china

Raid in Shenyang 'points to terrorists spreading across China' | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
The raid on suspected terrorists in northeastern Liaoning province on Monday indicated that Muslim extremists motivated by jihad were spreading across the mainland, a security expert said.
According to a statement posted on the provincial government's Weibo account on Monday night, police in Shenyang shot dead three suspected terrorists from Xinjiang and arrested another, when searching for suspects related to what the authorities are calling the "June 12 Hijra case".
No details of the Hijra case were provided. Hijra refers to the journey of the Prophet Mohammed from Mecca to Medina to escape persecution.
Li Wei, director of the counterterrorism research centre at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, said extremists had co-opted the word to justify their violence.
"The case in Shenyang suggests that the Hijra movement might have spread across the country," Li said, adding that in the past suspected terrorists usually went to the southern part of the country.
Exiled Uygurs and human rights groups said China's repressive policies on culture and religion in Xinjiang were to blame for the illegal migration.
But Beijing said many Uygurs had fled to join terrorist groups abroad.
The provincial government's Weibo account and official media outlets deleted the statement yesterday.
State media carried only a brief report saying Shenyang police shot dead three suspected terrorists and had captured a fourth. The public security bureau declined to comment on the statement.
Beijing officials earlier said Uygurs were fleeing the mainland to Southeast Asia, before heading to Turkey and joining up with Islamists in Iraq and Syria. Thailand recently deported more than 100 Uygurs to China.
According to a police document leaked earlier this year, the coastal province of Guangdong had overtaken the mountainous and tightly guarded Yunnan and Guangxi provinces as the preferred route for Uygurs to leave the county.
Li said northern China, including Henan and Liaoning provinces, had also become an "interchange station" for militants seeking to join "terrorist groups abroad", including Islamic State and the East Turkestan Islamic Movement.
"If they fail [to flee the mainland], they might carry out jihad, or terrorist attacks, in the region where they become stuck, just like those who hacked passengers at the Kunming train station in March 2014," Li said.
This migration was part of a global trend that had seen religious extremists from around the world join groups like Islamic State, he said.