2015-07~07
http://faustasblog.com/tag/guantanamo/

Guantánamo
and whether he’ll gift-wrap it for the Castros before he heads to Cuba
#Obama expected to present #Gitmo closure plan Tuesday https://t.co/JqSLMo7mDj pic.twitter.com/L3exildpP9
Filed Under: 9/11, Barack Obama, Communism, Cuba, terrorism Tagged With: Fausta' blog, Gitmo, Guantánamo
Mid-Atlantic and North Eastern states are digging out from the snow, while the Southern Hemisphere enjoys its summer.
ARGENTINA:
Macri at Davos: For the first time in a decade, an Argentine president visits the World Economic Forum. Argentina Eyes $20 Billion in Investment in 2016, Macri Says
BOLIVIA:
Evo Morales celebrates 10 years in powerThe president will be remembered as the country’s first indigenous head of state
BRAZIL
Another Capt. Louis Renault moment: Brazil’s Former President Defends His Handpicked Successor, and Himself. Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva vows to preserve legacy of Workers’ Party, credited for taking millions out of poverty
CHILE
Chile losing ground as top copper producer as metal price in the pits
COLOMBIA
A new plan for Colombia: Juan Manuel Santos seeks support for peace in Washington. I’ll be very surprised if Uribe shows up,
All being well, the talks will culminate in an agreement by March 23rd, and the FARC’s demobilisation. So it is appropriate that Barack Obama has invited Messrs Santos, Uribe and Pastrana to Washington on February 4th to commemorate “15 years of bipartisan co-operation through Plan Colombia”, along with George W. Bush and Mr Clinton. Mr Pastrana, a largely forgotten figure, was quick to accept. The election campaign in the United States may make it hard for Messrs Bush and Clinton to do so. According to Semana, a newsweekly, Mr Uribe, too, may stay away, vitiating one of the meeting’s tacit aims—to shore up bipartisanship in Colombia
Bomb Sniffing Dog Dies but Saves 30 Soldiers in Colombia
CUBA
Without Free Speech, Cuba Remains Trapped in Totalitarian Unanimity. A Simple Compromise Can Satisfy All Sides of the Embargo Debate
Zika virus: women in Colombia, Ecuador and El Salvador advised to postpone pregnancy
Recommendation made by countries’ health ministers after sharp increase in babies born with brain defects in Brazil as US extends travel warning for pregnant women
GUANTANAMO
Tariq Mahmoud Ahmed al Sawah: Obama releases top al Qaeda explosives expert from Guantanamo
HAITI
Haiti elections postponed a third time
GUATEMALA
11 Guatemalan Soldiers Indicted for Disappearances of 558 Indigenous People
MEXICO
Murders Jumped 8.7% in Mexico in 2015; First Increase Since 2011. Statistics seen as a blow to President Enrique Peña Nieto’s efforts to contain crime
Thousands of Americans Losing Jobs as Factories Shutter, Move to Mexico
A cry from Tamaulipas, Mexico: Life in a Militarized State
Lucero Sanchez: ‘El Chapo’ Mexico: Regional lawmaker quizzed over ‘jail visit’
PANAMA
Panama Canal sets sights on transshipment tied to new locks
PARAGUAY
The world’s fastest-growing tourist destinations revealed: Paraguay, Tajikistan and Iceland named as new hot spots
PERU
Archaeologists find remains of women sacrificed 1,000 years ago in Peru
PUERTO RICO
Some days Capt. Louis Renault works overtime:
Talks to Restructure Puerto Rico Power Company’s Debt Collapse
The creditors blamed the utility, the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority, or Prepa, for the collapse of the talks, saying its officials had decided to let an expiration date pass without taking action. Prepa is one of the largest single issuers of Puerto Rico’s $72 billion debt, most of it in the form of municipal bonds.
URUGUAY
Omar Abdelahdi Faraj: AP source: Ex-Guantánamo detainee arrested in domestic violence case in Uruguay. The captive was freed to Uruguay in December 2014
Guess Which South American Nation Is More Democratic than the U.S. Uruguay Is Latin America’s Lone Bright Spot; Haiti, Cuba the Most Authoritarian
VENEZUELA
Fears of Venezuela Default Grow Amid Oil Plunge. The plunge in the price of oil is causing more investors to bet that Venezuela will default on its $120 billion pile of foreign debt, an event that would trigger a messy battle over the country’s oil shipments and deepen its economic and political crisis.
Vile: Venezuelan prison authorities strip-search both wife and mother of jailed opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez. Leopoldo Lopez’s wife and mother have been strip-searched on entry to a Venezuelan prison
Filed Under: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Carnival of Latin America, Carnival of Latin America and the Caribbean, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Ecuador, Evo Morales, Guatemala, Haiti, Mexico, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Puerto Rico, Uruguay, Venezuela Tagged With: Capt. Louis Renault, Fausta' blog, Guantánamo, Lucero Sanchez, Mauricio Macri, Omar Abdelahdi Faraj, Tariq Mahmoud Ahmed al Sawah, Zika virus
El Chapo’s now in the same jail as he dug the tunnel from last year when he escaped. What could possibly go wrong?
ARGENTINA
Argentina’s new government says it will press claims to Falkland Islands. Buenos Aires demands talks over future of disputed territory dashing hopes that Mauricio Macri will offer more conciliatory approach than Cristina Kirchner
BOLIVIA
Evo Morales forces nurses to wear veil at Iran-financed hospital: Denuncian que obligan a usar velo a enfermeras
BRAZIL
Squeezing the poor: Bus-Fare Protests in Brazil Turn Violent. Seventeen people were arrested in São Paulo as protesters rioted against an 8-cent increase in bus and subway fares.
Brazil Inflation Reaches Highest Level in 13 Years. Consumer price inflation in Brazil increased last year to the highest rate in 13 years, underscoring one of the main challenges facing Latin America’s largest economy.
Rio planned Olympic-scale sewerage project. But citizens say no thanks. Rio’s mayor says that the network is an Olympic legacy. So why have so few people connected to it?
Congress Knew About Hellfire Missile in Cuba, A Year Ago
Cuban political prisoner Vladimir Morera Bacallao ends hunger strike ‘against his will’
Dems on parade, In Cuba, Gov. McAuliffe touts his state’s pork, wine — and seaport. Va. leader is outraged to learn pork is trucked from his state to Florida before being shipped to Havana
ECUADOR
TRENACO SA: unknown Swiss outfit bags $20bn contract from PDVSA. Read the article to find out why Ecuador.
GUANTANAMO
Ghana falsely claims 2 former Guantanamo detainees were ‘cleared of any involvement’ in terrorism
HONDURAS
Search on for ‘City of the Monkey God’. The President of Honduras, Juan Orlando Hernandez, says scientists plan to explore a jungle site where they believe a mysterious ancient city is hidden.
IMMIGRATION
More African and Asian Migrants Are Arriving in Mexico After Long Latin American Journeys

Ismael paid a man in Kenya $5,000 dollars for a fake passport, a plane ticket to Brazil and introductions to a spidery network of human smugglers that eventually got him to Tapachula and the Hotel Palafox.

Disclosure: Another 41 Foreign-Born Individuals Snagged On Terror Charges. Obama administration withholds details as more attacks occur
JAMAICA
Jamaica homicides jump 20 pct, to highest level in 5 years

A new UCLA study shows that Guzman’s drug war has taken so many lives that it’s reduced Mexican lifespan expectations by six months, with the worst declines in the states where Guzman operates.

Yet a Facebook commenter said that Mexicans consider the news as a way for Peña Nieto to create a distraction from the poor economy.
PANAMA
How Panama and Mexico Help Potential Terrorists Reach the U.S. Border
PARAGUAY
 More soccer scandals, Paraguay to send documents seized in CONMEBOL raid to US
PERU
Sex, surgery and HIV: Living in the shadows, the secret struggle of Peru’s transwomen who sell their bodies… and may be dead by 35

The defaulted debt corresponds to $35.9 million in bonds issued by the Puerto Rico Infrastructure Finance Authority and $1.4 million in Public Finance Corp. bonds

Gimme, gimme: Puerto Rico Pleads for Congressional Help as Lawsuits Are Filed
Puerto Rico faces first lawsuit over US territory diverting funds to meet bond payments

The lawsuit filed late Thursday by Assured Guaranty Corp. and Ambac Assurance Corporation claims the government violated the U.S. constitution by diverting tax revenues meant to back certain bonds and used them instead to finance general obligation bonds, which have higher priority.

URUGUAY
Marijuana tops list of drugs seized in Uruguay, gov’t says
Filed Under: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Carnival of Latin America, Carnival of Latin America and the Caribbean, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Ecuador, Evo Morales, Honduras, immigration, Jamaica, Latin America, Mexico, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Puerto Rico, Uruguay, Venezuela Tagged With: Fausta' blog, Gitmo, Guantánamo
I fully expect the Obama administration to close not only the prison but also the U.S. base at Guantanamo, after which, Obama will do a turnkey ceremony in Havana with photo-op with Raul Castro.
Here’s the latest headline, on the latest hurdle:
Obama, Congress head for showdown over defense bill curbs on Gitmo

The bill does so by barring the Pentagon from spending any funds on the transfers or constructing or modifying prison facilities in the United States. It also bans putting the detainees in any Pentagon facilities worldwide or to combat zones.
Lastly, the House bill prohibits using any defense funds to send terrorists from Guantanamo to any foreign country unless the defense secretary provides a certification that past transferees haven’t returned to terrorist activities.
Although the bill fully funds the president’s budget request, Mr. Obama has threatened a veto on the grounds that it misuses the Overseas Contingency Operations to fund other defense programs. His real rationale for a veto, however, may be the House’s Guantanamo restrictions.
No similar restrictions are in the Senate version of the bill. However, the House bill notes that the White House ignored previous legal restrictions on Guantanamo prisoners, thus bolstering the argument for keeping the more restrictive House language.
Filed Under: Barack Obama, Cuba Tagged With: Fausta's blog, Guantánamo
Earnest ignores any importance of Guantánamo base as a strategic asset.
I stand by my prediction: Obama will gift Guantánamo base to the Castros before his term is over.
I have been predicting for quite a while that the Obama administration’s next goal regarding its foreign policy on Latin America is to gift the Guantanamo naval base to the Castro’s communist regime.
Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC) explains the consequences this will have for America:

If Castro achieved control of GTMO, what would happen? The all-too-obvious answer is that it would allow him to extend an invitation to one of the close allies of Havana, such as the Putin regime in Moscow or the mullahs in Tehran. If any of the actors interested in taking over the lease of GTMO does move into the warm Cuban waters off Florida’s southern coast, this would provide a direct military threat to the U.S. homeland. Consider for a moment the depth of waters and potential ability for nuclear submarines to conduct intelligence operations or worse.
Two years ago, the Russian Defense Minister stated that Russia wants to build military bases in several countries in the Western hemisphere, including Cuba. Press reports of Russian intelligence ships operating in the waters around Cuba, most recently earlier this year on the eve of U.S. talks with Cuba in Havana, prove that Russia is deadly serious about making good on those intentions.
Duncan does not exaggerate; Last year Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu stated that Russia is planning to expand its permanent military presence outside its borders by placing military bases in a number of foreign countries:

“The talks are under way, and we are close to signing the relevant documents,” Shoigu told reporters in Moscow.
The minister added that the negotiations cover not only military bases but also visits to ports in such countries on favorable conditions as well as the opening of refueling sites for Russian strategic bombers on patrol.
Dr Ely Karmon, in his report Iran in Latin America: President Rouhani’s Era points out,
On April 30, 2014, the State Department issued its Country Reports on Terrorism 2013, which stated that “Iran’s influence in the Western Hemisphere remained a concern,” but that “due to strong sanctions imposed on the country by the United States and the European Union, Iran has been unable to expand its economic and political ties in Latin America.”[2]
Whether Iran gets what it wants on the nuclear deal (which it does) or not, by lifting sanctions, the U.S. has given Iran every incentive to continue its ongoing economic and political expansion into Latin America. You can expect that making a deal with the Castros on Gitmo is part of their plans.
2. Raul Castro calls for new Cuba-US relationship (emphasis added)
In a speech to the National Assembly, Mr Castro said that, for normal relations to resume, a US embargo on Cuba would have to be lifted.
He also called for the US naval base at Guantanamo Bay to be returned to Cuba.
The die is cast, now we just wait for it to roll.
Filed Under: Barack Obama, Cuba, Fausta's blog, Iran, Russia Tagged With: Fausta's blog, Gitmo, Guantánamo
They can travel out of the country, too,
Guantanamo Inmates Get Rights in Uruguay
Six former prisoners in the Guantanamo detention center in Cuba were set to begin their lives as free men in Uruguay on Monday, as President José Mujica said they could travel in and out of the country.
Six former prisoners in the Guantanamo detention center in Cuba were set to begin their lives as free men in Uruguay on Monday, as President José Mujica said they could travel in and out of the country.
Under what country’s passports?, you would ask. Once they get (Uruguayan?) passports, where will they go?

“They will be able to bring their families here if they want,” Uruguay’s defense minister, Eleuterio Fernández Huidobro, told a local news station. “They will be accompanied by people to help them adjust to the language and other things. They will have to find jobs.”
Filed Under: news, terrorism, terrorism. Latin America, UK, Uruguay Tagged With: Fausta' blog, Gitmo, Guantánamo, Jose Mujica
He probably doesn’t want to upset the folks in the tri-border area:
Mujica told El Espectador radio that Uruguay has tentatively agreed to take four Syrians and a Palestinian who have been held at the military detention center in the U.S.-held corner of Cuba.
Mujica denied that the five are dangerous and said that “in no way” would Uruguay prevent them from traveling.
While he was at it, Mujica also said he’ll skip meeting Pres. Obama in Washington, thank you.
Filed Under: terrorism, terrorism. Latin America, Tri-Border Area, Uruguay Tagged With: Fausta's blog, Gitmo, Guantánamo, Jose Mujica