2015-07~07
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/reuters/article-3157151/China-says-Uighurs-sold-cannon-fodder-extremist-groups.html

China says Uighurs being sold as "cannon fodder" for extremist groups | Daily Mail Online

Published:
 02:55 EST, 11 July 2015

 | 
Updated:
 02:55 EST, 11 July 2015


BEIJING, July 11 (Reuters) - Uighurs from China's Xinjiang
are being given Turkish identity papers in Southeast Asia by
Turkish diplomats and then taken to Turkey where some are sold
to fight for groups like Islamic State as "cannon fodder", a
senior Chinese official said.
Beijing says the Turkic language-speaking Uighur minority
are firstly Chinese nationals, and those who flee China should
be returned to their home region in the far west of the country
bordering central Asia.
"Turkish embassies in Southeast Asia will give them proof of
identity," Tong Bishan, division chief of the Ministry of Public
Security's Criminal Investigation Department, told a small group
of foreign reporters in Beijing on Saturday.
"They are obviously Chinese but they will give them
identities as Turkish nationals."
The accusation is likely to further anger Ankara, already
alarmed by the return of more than 100 Uighurs to China from
Thailand this week.
Some Turks see themselves as sharing a common cultural and
religious heritage with their Uighur "brothers".
Hundreds, possibly thousands, of Uighurs keen to escape
unrest in China's western Xinjiang region, have travelled
clandestinely via Southeast Asia to Turkey. China is home to
about 20 million Muslims spread across its vast territory, only
a portion of whom are Uighurs
Tong said that hundreds of Uighurs had been given documents
by Turkish diplomats, especially in Kuala Lumpur, and then
allowed into Turkey.
Neither the Turkish Foreign Ministry nor the Turkish embassy
in Kuala Lumpur were able to immediately provide comment.
But upon arriving, they have no chance of finding legal work
and some end up with extremist groups, Tong said, like the East
Turkestan Islamic Movement, which Beijing accuses of waging an
insurrection campaign in Xinjiang to set up their own state.
"They are very easily controlled by certain local forces,
especially the East Turkestan Islamic Movement and other
terrorist groups. They organise the youths, they brainwash them,
and get them to the front line to fight. They are cannon
fodder," Tong said.
"There is competition for them. Some are sent to Iraq, some
to Syria. The terrorist groups there lack people. They will
snatch people away. The terrorist groups will pay, at least
$2,000 a person. It's their way of recruiting soldiers."
Tong, who has been helping lead the Chinese effort to get
Uighurs in Southeast Asia back to China, said he did not know
how many Uighurs were now fighting for Islamic State.
But he said that they have found propaganda videos and
messages on the mobile phones and computers of some of those who
have been returned, including pictures of dead fighters and
promises of the joys to come in the afterlife.
"We are providing education and support, to tell them what
real Islam is about. They've been listening to and watching
stuff on the Internet, from irregular imams."
Numerous groups have been sent back to China this year from
Southeast Asia, Tong said, including the 109 repatriated from
Thailand this week. He did not have a full figure for the
numbers deported.
The deportations have sparked sometimes violent protests in
Turkey, home to a large Uighur diaspora.
The United States and United Nations have condemned the
deportations and asked Thailand to stop them, saying the Uighurs
could face harsh treatment in China.
Beijing denies the accusations of human rights groups that
it restricts the Uighurs' religious freedoms. It blames Islamist
militants for a rise in violent attacks in Xinjiang in the past
three years in which hundreds have died.
Tong said that concern the Uighurs would be mistreated upon
their return was simply an attempt to "demonize" China, and said
they were being well looked after, though those suspected of
crimes will be prosecuted.

 (Additional reporting Yantoultra Ngui in Kuala Lumpur and Ece
Toksabay in Ankara; Editing by Jeremy Laurence)
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group