2015-07~07
http://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/china-targets-rights-lawyers-in-crackdown-on-activists-20150713-giatk6.html

China targets rights lawyers in crackdown on activists
Beijing:  Chinese authorities have widened a crackdown on human rights groups, detaining or questioning more than 50 lawyers and activists in a sweep over the past few days, rights groups say.
Chinese state television releases vision of over a hundred people thought to be Uighur Muslims being returned to the western Xinjiang province.
Citing the need to buttress national security and stability, President Xi Jinping's administration has tightened government control over almost every aspect of civil society since 2012.
In recent years, the government has detained dozens of Chinese for dissent and Tibetans and Uighurs have complained of rights abuses, prompting criticism from the US.
Meanwhile, China asserted that some of the Uighurs deported to China last week from Thailand had planned to go to Syria and Iraq for jihad. State television broadcast footage of the Uighurs being bundled out of an aircraft in China in black hoods with their heads held down, and at least one apparently in chains.
State television alleged some of those deported had admitted to being incited by messages from the Eastern Turkestan Islamic Movement, which Beijing says is waging an insurgency for independence in Xinjiang, as well as the exiled group, the World Uighur Congress.
Beijing denies accusations by human rights groups that it restricts the Uighurs' religious freedoms. It blames Islamist militants for violent attacks in Xinjiang in the past three years in which hundreds have died. China has also denied allegations of mistreatment or torture.
The US State Department on Sunday condemned China's detentions of human rights lawyers, urging China "to release all those who have recently been detained for seeking to protect the rights of Chinese citizens".
Those who have been taken away include the prominent lawyer Wang Yu and several colleagues at the Fengrui Law Firm, which has represented high-profile clients such as Uighur dissident Ilham Tohti and Zhang Miao, a news assistant at German newspaper Die Zeit who was recently detained for more than half a year.
The People's Daily, the Communist Party mouthpiece, said on Saturday that public security authorities had identified Fengrui as a "major criminal organisation" that served as a coordinating "platform" involved in dozens of sensitive cases since 2012.
The article highlighted the role of former Fengrui employee Wu Gan, a social media personality known as "Super Vulgar Butcher" who blogs about official misconduct and free speech and has been detained since May. The Fengrui employees are under "criminal detention", the paper said.
Other well-known lawyers taken away in recent days include Li Heping, who represented the blind dissident Chen Guangcheng, and Sui Muqing, a lawyer based in the southern city of Guangzhou.
"The government is very concerned about activists' growing influence and their ability to use social media to drum up public support," said William Nee, a Hong Kong-based China researcher at Amnesty International. "They see the agenda-setting process is getting away from them."
More than 100 Chinese lawyers issued a joint statement on Friday to protest Mr Wang's arrest. Many of them have since been detained, rights groups said.
The State Department said in its statement: "Over the last few days we have noted with growing alarm reports that Chinese public security forces have systematically detained individuals who share the common attribute of peacefully defending the rights of others, including those who lawfully challenge official policies."
Get notified when the big things happen. Sign up to our newsletter.