2015-07~07
http://mauritaniavox.com/chinese-police-kill-3-uighur-terrorists/

Chinese Police Kill 3 Uighur ‘Terrorists’ | Mauritania Vox
Countries with the highest unemployment rates in #Africa;
1. #Mauritania (31%)
2. #Lesotho (26.2%)
3. #SouthAfrica (25.1%)

#WorldBank, 2014
noorinfo: RT lissnup: Cabano protests increasing. This right now in Nouadhibou, #Mauritania pic.twitter.com/8V18YnJ2j6
noorinfo: RT cherrycall: 27 Marvellous Facts About #Mauritania
bit.ly/1QGTHN2 #Nouakchott pic.twitter.com/8aQEsYgdBa
Chinese police say they have shot and killed three people described as knife-wielding militants from the mainly Muslim far western region of Xinjiang.
A fourth person was injured in the incident that occurred Monday in the northeastern city of Shenyang, according to social media posting by city police.
“Four terrorists armed with knives resisted arrest, [and] police fired shots only after the terrorists ignored warnings,” read the statement.
Officials and state media described the men as ethnic Uighurs from Xinjiang, which has seen a disturbing increase in violent attacks against official and civilian targets.
Many exiled Uighurs see the violence as a desperate response to China’s religious and economic discrimination against Uighurs, who have fled the region and even the country in waves.
Those shot Monday were among those trying to flee through China’s northeast border, according to the World Uyghur Congress. The group’s spokesman, Dilxat Raxit, said the men were trying to resist being rounded up by police.
Shenyang, where the shooting occurred, is about 3,000 miles from Urumqi, the capital of the Xinjiang region. Police said no bystanders were killed in the incident, adding one Uighur woman and three children were also taken into custody.
The Chinese government says it is fighting foreign-backed jihadists that are trying to form a separate state in Xinjiang, though it is not clear to what extent the unrest has been planned by any single group.
Beijing denies discriminating against the Turkic-speaking Uighurs, saying it is pouring money into the region and improving living standards.

Africa
AFRICA / AFRIQUE
Americas
Animals
Asia
AUTRES/OTHERS
Aviation
Burundi
drones
ECO Economic News
Economy
Entertainment
Environment
Europe
FOR Foreign Policy
France
Gadgets
Health
Heath
HighTech
International
Kenya
Lifestyle
MAV Media Advisory/Invitation/Agenda
Mid-East
Middle East
Military
Mobile Top News
nasa
News
Nigeria
People
Politics
Science
Science & Technology
Sciences
South Africa
Space
Sport
Technology
uavs
UNITED NATIONS - ONU
unmanned aerial vehicles
USA
Video
Free and non-commercial democratic news website. All the contents remain the sole property of their original authors, and are the authors' responsibility only. If you wish to remove contents, thank you for advising us at contact@mauritaniavox.com