2015-07~07
http://www.newsfultoncounty.com/politics/news/014344-china-concerned-over-turkey-uighur-fasting-ban-remarks

China 'concerned' Over Turkey Uighur Fasting Ban Remarks | Fulton News
– Turkish Foreign Ministry has said it is ‘deeply concerned’ over reports China banned Ramadan for Party members, including civil servants, students, teachers

BEIJING – China expressed its own concerns Wednesday about a Turkish Foreign Ministry statement that expressed “deep concern” about reports that Beijing has instilled a fasting ban on segments of its Uighur Muslim population.
In a daily press briefing, the spokeswoman for China’s Foreign Ministry said that the government had noted Turkey’s remarks and had asked for clarification.
“All ethnic groups in China are entitled to the freedom of religious belief under Chinese constitution,” Hua Chunying added.
In a statement released Tuesday, Turkey said that it had informed the Chinese ambassador in Ankara of its worries.
“It has been publicly heard with sorrow that there are reports of the fasting and fulfilling of religious duties by Uighur Turks being banned,” the statement said.
The statement offered no explanation as to what it wanted China to do about the reported ban.
Hua said that Beijing attached great importance to its developing relationship with Turkey.
“We hope we can develop the bilateral relationship, based on the mutual respect of each other’s major concerns and common interests,” she said.
“We hope that the Turkish side will work together with us to maintain the smooth development of the bilateral relationship.” 
Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu told reporters Tuesday that Turkey closely followed the Uighur issue. 
“They are important to us, we declare our connection with them in every occasion. We also let the Chinese officials know that it is very natural for us to react against a human rights violation there when it happens,” he said. 
UN human rights investigators have criticized China’s reported crackdown on Uighur and their religion, citing “disturbing stories” of harassment and intimidation against the ethnic minority.
*Anadolu Agency correspondent Satuk Bugra Kutlugun contributed to this story from Ankara.
China 'concerned' over Turkey Uighur fasting ban remarks added by Selim ALTIN on July 1, 2015View all posts by Selim ALTIN →