2015-07~07
http://thrasherbacker.com/1610-fm-says-false-reports-behind-anti-china-protests-in-turkey-eastday/016647/

FM says false reports behind anti-China protests in Turkey – Eastday – Thrasher Backer
Beijing warned on Sunday its citizens travelling in Turkey to be careful of anti-China protests, saying some tourists have recently been “attacked and disturbed”.
In one incident, Turkish television showed police intervening on Saturday to stop demonstrators. “I’m Korean!” Turkey has also irked China by expressing concern over the reports of restrictions on Uighurs during Ramadan.
Turkish media has reported that the minority group there have been banned from fasting and worship during the holy month of Ramadan.
Although the Chinese interior ministry denies accusations of oppression, claiming that “we [the Chinese government] have no problem with the Muslims”, local authorities have been accused of not allowing women to wear the veil and prohibiting Muslims from fasting between sunrise and sunset during Ramadan, insisting that Muslim-owned shops stay open and threatening them with fines and closure.
A predominantly Muslim country, Turkey has both linguistic and religious links with the Uygur community in Xinjiang, and in recent years, it has pointed an accusing finger at China’s policy in the region.
Hurriyet notes that, in another instance of mistaken identity, a group of protesters intending to show support for the Uyghur cause actually attacked an ethnic Uyghur-a cook at a restaurant called Happy China.
Beijing says Uighur Muslims enjoy freedom of religion. The arrival of waves of Han Chinese, the country’s predominant ethnic group, over the past decades has fueled ethnic tensions.
“The Turkish government has already on multiple occasions unreasonably interfered in Chinese internal politics, which indicates “Pan-Turkism” still exists in modern Turkish society”, wrote Adilijan Ablet, a professor of politics at Xinjiang University, in the mass circulation state-run newspaper Global Times.
Ankara’s interference in China’s Xinjiang issue has become a bottleneck to the healthy development of China-Turkey ties. China’s foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying has stated that Turkey must “respect China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and to exercise prudence in its words and actions on relevant issues”.
Subscribe to our newsletter to receive breaking news by email.