2015-07~07
http://atimes.com/2015/07/the-chinese-military-has-a-new-secret-weapon-lightning-fast-trains/

The Chinese military has a new secret weapon: Lightning-fast trains – Asia Times
Home › Asia Times News & Features › The Chinese military has a new secret weapon: Lightning-fast trains

By AT Editor on July 6, 2015 in 
Asia Times News & Features, Central Asia, China 
(From the Week)
By Robert Beckhusen
On most days, China’s high-speed rail network is for hauling millions — yes, millions — of commuters, vacationers, and tourists around the country.
But on May 14, one section of the growing network served a very different purpose. A People’s Liberation Army brigade from the Lanzhou military region boarded a high-speed train and set off for Xinjiang — 300 miles to the west.
Chinese high-speed trains
The exercise was a rapid and clever way to move troops around the huge country, something which Beijing is struggling to handle. China has the largest ground army and the longest land border in the world, which abuts 14 nations … more than any other country except Russia.
One of these countries — India — is one of Beijing’s rivals and the two countries have two ongoing border disputes. Myanmar to the south — and Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan to the west — are potentially unstable. Then there’s the border with North Korea.
It all adds up to lots of potential crises along the border. The result is that Beijing wants its army to have the ability to respond to lots of varied and potential crises. Hence high-speed trains.
China’s army is starting to move fast. Read more
Share this:Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)Share on Skype (Opens in new window)MoreClick to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)Click to print (Opens in new window)

Related
‹ Kim Jong-un had terrapin farm manager executed, says sourceChina’s regulators play catchup ›Categories: Asia Times News & Features, Central Asia, ChinaTags: Chinese military, high-speed trains, security, Xinjiang 
Related Articles



Ceasefire cuts violence in western Syria by 37% 



Reduction of government ministries to save Myanmar over $4 million 



Is Indonesia ready to be a major player in the South China Sea? 



China has a new armed drone helicopter 



China in talks to build railroad to Nepal 



Philippine election question marks sow panic in South China Sea 





On most days, China’s high-speed rail network is for hauling millions — yes, millions — of commuters, vacationers, and tourists around the country.
But on May 14, one section of the growing network served a very different purpose. A People’s Liberation Army brigade from the Lanzhou military region boarded a high-speed train and set off for Xinjiang — 300 miles to the west.
The exercise was a rapid and clever way to move troops around the huge country, something which Beijing is struggling to handle. China has the largest ground army and the longest land border in the world, which abuts 14 nations … more than any other country except Russia.
One of these countries — India — is one of Beijing’s rivals and the two countries have two ongoing border disputes. Myanmar to the south — and Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan to the west — are potentially unstable. Then there’s the border with North Korea.
It all adds up to lots of potential crises along the border. The result is that Beijing wants its army to have the ability to respond to lots of varied and potential crises. Hence high-speed trains.
These lightning fast trains could also be used to send massive aid rapidly to disaster areas hit by earthquake, typhoons, floods etc.
All of a sudden, pivoteers around the world are getting noticeably anxious about the possibility tha [...]
The United States is keen to boost the military capabilities of East Asian countries and its own regional presence in the face of China’s assertive pursuit of territorial claims in the South China Sea, one of the world’s busiest trade routes. ... See MoreSee Less
(From Reuters) China said on Monday agreements like the one reached last week by the United States and the Philippines allowing for a U.S. military presence at five Philippine bases raised question…
The case, which involves vaccines against meningitis, rabies and other illnesses, underlines the challenge the world’s second-largest drug market faces to regulate its fragmented supply chain, even as Beijing looks to support home-grown firms. ... See MoreSee Less
(From Reuters) Chinese authorities have pledged to crack down on the black market sale of vaccines after a case was made public involving nearly $90 million worth of illegal vaccines that are suspe…