2015-07~07
http://www.azerbaijannews.net/index.php/sid/234511123

Azerbaijan News - The Chinese military has a new secret weapon: Lightning-fast trains

On most days, China’s high-speed rail network is for hauling millions -- yes, millions -- of commuters, vacationers, and tourists around the country.

But on May 14, one section of the growing network served a very different purpose. A People’s Liberation Army brigade from the Lanzhou military region boarded a high-speed train and set off for Xinjiang -- 300 miles to the west.
Kazakhstan ruling party is expected to retain its control in the lower house of parliament in a snap election on March 20. President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Experienced striker Sunil Chhetri has been ruled out of the Indian football squad for the forthcoming World Cup qualifier against Iran due to an injury. Chhetri, who ...
Astana, March 20 (IANS) Voters across Kazkhstan on Sunday began casting their ballots in early legislative elections to choose a new parliament. Polling stations opened at 7.00 a.m., EFE news ...
China's plans to create a new Central Asian security bloc have raised concerns in Moscow that Russia is declining geopolitically in Central Asia and may now be competing with China. General Fang ...
Nerves on the Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan cooled somewhat on March 21 with news that both sides agreed to draw back their forces from a disputed area. Authorities in Kyrgyzstan, who have been the only ...
Exit polls in Kazakhstan have provided a preliminary confirmation of widely expected results in the March 20 parliamentary elections, showing the ruling Nur Otan party winning around 82 percent of ...
Kazakhstan is voting in a snap parliamentary election expected to return a storming victory for the ruling Nur Otan party, which has run without any substantive opposition. Speaking as he cast his ...
A sudden deployment of troops by Uzbekistan along a disputed section of border has rattled nerves in Kyrgyzstan. Kyrgyzstan's border service reported on March 18 that Uzbek troops have blocked an ...
In his latest endeavor to gin up some or any foreign investment, Tajikistan's President Emomali Rahmon last week traveled to the United Arab Emirates. The bilateral deals signed at the conclusion ...
Astana (Kazakhstan) (AFP) - The ruling party of energy-rich Kazakhstan's ageing autocrat President Nursultan Nazarbayev secured a landslide victory in parliamentary elections, results showed ...
REUTERS photo British oil major BP expects flat oil production in 2016 at its Azeri-Chirag-Guneshli (ACG) oilfields in Azerbaijan, where it plans two rounds of maintenance this year, the ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - The situation on the Kyrgyz-Uzbek border in Chalasart village, Aksy district, Jalal-Abad region, is relatively stable now, reported the press service of the State Border Service ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - Addressing residents and guests of the Kazakh capital, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated all Kazakhstanis on Nowruz, reports Kazinform. ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - Mountainous areas of Kyrgyzstan are still avalanche-prone on March 21 due to past precipitation and expected warmer weather, according to the Hydrometeorology Agency ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - The national football team of Tajikistan on Sunday arrived in Adelaide for the second round of the qualifying tournament of the 2018 FIFA World Cup against Australia, reported ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 21 Trend: Special Representative of the German Government for the OSCE Chairmanship Gernot Erler, together with the Co-Chairs of the OSCE Minsk ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 21 By Elena Kosolapova – Trend: Kazakhstan held a parliamentary election March 20, the result of which, according to exit polls, ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 21 Trend: Offroad motor rally was organized to Khinalig village of the Guba district, Azerbaijan, as part of the ASAN mektub project with the ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 21 Trend: Bakcell, The First Mobile Operator and The Leading Mobile Internet Provider of Azerbaijan today launched a new toolbar which helps ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 21 Trend: Azerbaijan Airlines published an updated summer schedule, which includes amendments relating to the abolition of daylight saving time ...
Azerbaijan News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Mountainous terrain, spas, historical sites, an attractive seacoast and cave settlements are the chief attractions of Azerbaijan.
Azerbaijan will appeal to travelers who are looking for something truly different, who are accustomed to travel in the former Soviet Union and who enjoy roughing things a bit. Don't go expecting varied shopping, nightlife, deluxe accommodations or a relaxing vacation.
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by temporarily easing trade sanctions slapped earlier this month against the Chinese telecom equipment and smartphone maker ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at the state-owned coal and steel companies into low paying jobs. Miners that ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
PRETORIA, South Africa South Africa's ruling party, the African National Congress, on Sunday said it had full confidence in President Jacob Zuma in the wake of mounting allegations of political ...
ISTANBUL A Turkish militant with links to the Islamic State was the suicide bomber who blew himself up killing four foreigners in Istanbul over the weekend, Turkey's Interior Minister Ekfan Ala has ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
LONDON/NEW YORK - US business research provider IHS Inc. is to buy market-data firm Markit to create a $13 billion London-based data and business research provider. The deal joins a wave of ...
© 1999 - 2016 Azerbaijan News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)