2015-07~07
http://america.aljazeera.com/articles/2015/7/6/china-denies-uighur-ethnic-problem-in-far-western-region-of-xinjiang.html

China Denies ‘ethnic Problem’ in Xinjiang | Al Jazeera America
The browser or device you are using is out of date. It has known security flaws and a limited feature set. You will not see all the features of some websites. Please update your browser. A list of the most popular browsers can be found below.
China has no "ethnic problem" in its western province of Xinjiang, and Muslim Uighur minorities there enjoy freedom of religion, the Foreign Ministry said Monday, following anti-China protests in Turkey over Beijing's treatment of the group.
Relations between China and Turkey have been strained over Turkish reports that Uighurs were banned from worshipping and fasting during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. China expressed displeasure after Turkey this month took in 173 Uighur refugees from Thailand.
"Uighurs live and work in peace and contentment and enjoy freedom of religion under the rules in the constitution," Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters at a regular briefing. "So the so-called 'Xinjiang ethnic problem' you mentioned that has been raised in some reports simply does not exist."
Hundreds of protesters in Turkey marched on the Chinese consulate in Istanbul over the weekend, bearing flags and chanting anti-China slogans outside the building.
The protesters on Saturday carried flags representing the Uighurs' homeland and called for a boycott of Chinese goods. The demonstration was peaceful, but the Dogan news agency said a group of nationalists tried to attack a group of Korean tourists which they mistook for Chinese nationals. Police rescued the tourists.
The Committee to Protect Journalists has, for the first time, put China on the damning list for its crackdown on media
Land reclamation projects in Spratlys sets stage for military expansion and control of airspace
Gender equality is becoming a charged political issue, but differences among advocates run deeper than party lines
Sorry, your comment was not saved due to a technical problem. Please try again later or using a different browser.
Yoga used to help kids cope with violence in Chicago