2015-07~07
http://www.scmp.com/news/asia/diplomacy/article/1835561/turkish-protesters-storm-thai-consulate-over-deportation-uygurs

Turkish protesters storm Thai consulate over deportation of Uygurs to China | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Turkish anti-Chinese demonstrators stormed the Thai consulate in Istanbul in protest at the deportation by Bangkok of dozens of Uygur Muslims to China, as diplomatic tensions flared on Thursday in an increasingly combustible controversy.
The attack was the latest in a series of nationalist-tinted protests in Turkey during the holy Muslim fasting month of Ramadan over China's treatment of the Turkic-speaking, largely Muslim Uygurs in the northwestern Xinjiang region.
Nine people were arrested after the action at the consulate building in Istanbul late on Wednesday organised by a group calling itself East Turkestan Education Association, the Dogan news agency reported.
They broke down the doors to the building, pulled down the sign outside and damaged the furnishings inside, television footage showed.
The Thai flag was pulled down as the building was also pelted with stones. Files were flung outside while a man was seen battering a window down with a post.
Shocked consulate workers returned to the office yesterday to find their workplace upturned, with broken glass and debris littering the floor.
Thailand said it had deported around 100 Uygur Muslims detained in the kingdom since last year to China, in a move sparking fears for their safety.
"If we send them back [to China] and there is a problem that is not our fault," Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said.
The fate of the Uygurs, who presented themselves to police as Turkish, had been the subject of a diplomatic tussle between Ankara and Beijing.
Thai government spokesman Werachon Sukhondapatipak said "some 100" Uygurs were deported to China on Wednesday after finding "clear evidence they are Chinese nationals". He also said an earlier group of Uygurs, 172 women and children, were sent to Turkey in late June.
The Turkish foreign ministry condemned Thailand for sending the Uygur Turks back to China, accusing it of "acting against the international laws".
"We are saddened to know that 115 Uygur Turks detained in Thailand were sent to a third country without their will and consent," the ministry said.
The UN refugee agency said it was "shocked" by the deportation to China. It was "a flagrant violation of international law", said Volker Turk of UNHCR.
Turkey last week summoned the Chinese ambassador to convey its "deep concerns" over alleged restrictions on the Uygur community during Ramadan. Beijing has denied the claims.