2013-07~12
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2013-10-30/china-captures-suspects-behind-tiananmen-square-27terrorist-at/5059356

China holds five over deadly Tiananmen Square car fire, labels incident a 'terrorist attack' - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)
Chinese authorities have captured five suspects behind the car immolation next to Tiananmen Square that Chinese officials are now describing as a "terrorist attack".
On Monday the car smashed through barriers near the Forbidden City before bursting into flames in a suspected immolation in front of the famous portrait of Mao Zedong.
The driver and two passengers burned to death, while two tourists were killed and 40 others were injured when the vehicle struck them.
On a verified social media account, Beijing police said the three people in the car were from the same family - one man, his wife and his mother.
Police said the car had a licence plate identifying it as from the restive western region of Xinjiang, and the names given for the trio sounded like ones used by the mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority.
Another five people have been arrested in connection with the case, police said.
It was a "carefully planned, organised and premeditated violent terrorist attack", a statement said, adding that the car carried petrol, knives and banners bearing extremist religious content.
Police said the suspects crashed the vehicle and "ignited the petrol inside the car so the car caught on fire".
Beijing has blamed Uighur groups for what it calls "terrorist" attacks in Xinjiang, but details of alleged incidents are hard to confirm, and exile groups accuse China of exaggerating the threat to justify religious and cultural restrictions.
The police notification seeking details of the suspects did not state their ethnic backgrounds, but seven of their names were among those commonly used by Uighurs.
No Uighur group has claimed responsibility for Monday's crash, which struck at the symbolic centre of the Chinese state.
Xinjiang is a sparsely populated but strategically important area which borders several central Asian countries.
It is periodically hit by violent clashes, including riots in the region's capital Urumqi in 2009 which left around 200 dead, but information is often hard to obtain.
Police have arrested at least 139 people in Xinjiang in recent months for allegedly spreading jihad, according to state-run media.
Tiananmen Square is under constant heavy security due to its proximity to the Zhongnanhai compound of the central leadership and due to the Great Hall of the People which overlooks the square.
The square is a magnet for protesters, especially around the June 4 anniversary of the crushing of the student-led demonstrations in 1989, though they are normally swiftly bundled away by police.
Firefighting equipment is placed around the square to prevent self-immolation protests.

 First posted 
 
 October 30, 2013 21:39:37
 

For information on how you can help, visit abc.net.au/appeals or call 1800 811 700.
If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC.
Brussels has been rocked by a series of blasts at the city's airport and at least one metro station, leaving at least 21 dead.
Dozens of large private companies paid no corporate tax in 2013-14. Search our database to see who's paying what.
Malcolm Turnbull has shown crossbench senators the hangman's noose and their minds will now be focused on one thing: survival.
Boldness is the currency of Canberra and confidence is a substitute for the control MPs will never have. Enter Malcolm Turnbull and the double dissolution gamble he "had to take", writes Chris Berg.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.


AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)
