2013-07~12
http://www.concordmonitor.com/home/9240212-95/in-his-own-words-communism-has-always-been-a-scam

In His Own Words: Communism has always been a scam | Concord Monitor
Chinese civil rights activist Chen Guangcheng, who spoke last week at the University of New Hampshire School of Law in Concord, was the subject of dramatic headlines in 2012 after a daring escape from “soft detention” in Shandong province to the U.S. embassy in Beijing. He eventually left for the United States and recently became an adviser to the Concord-based Lantos Foundation, focused on internet freedom and human rights for people with disabilities. What many Americans are less familiar with are the positions Chen has taken that put him at odds with the Chinese government. For instance:
On China’s one-child policy: “I would like to call on the American people to take actions to urge the officials and congressmen you voted into office to apply all resources and means to help terminate China’s evil one-child policy and forced abortions. Forcing women to abort their babies is a violation of universal human rights. It tramples on women’s rights, the right of free choice, and also the sacred right of life. This wicked policy results in a severe imbalance in gender ratio and a rapidly aging population” (from an October speech at Catholic University).
On the persecution of religious believers in China: “Demand that the Chinese Communist Party stop persecuting religious believers and respect religious freedom. One hundred twenty Tibetan monks have immolated themselves. People in Xinjiang fighting against tyranny have been shot, one after another. And we all know the indescribable persecution Falun Gong practitioners have suffered. Nonofficial, independent Christian house churches and Catholic churches are still being restricted or outlawed by the government. These ethnic and religious groups can get along with other Asians, Europeans, and Americans, and earn their respect, so why can the Chinese Communist government not tolerate them?” (from the Catholic University speech).
On how outsiders can promote democracy in China: “I’m often asked what the international community can do to help promote democracy and rule of law in China. I sincerely hope that people around the world will lose their fear of offending China because it’s rich and powerful. I want people to stop turning a blind eye to the abuses that people throughout China are suffering. Stop supporting the myth that anyone who urges the Communist Party to abide by their own laws will be retaliated against and be treated as an enemy of the state. Don’t do anything on the basis that China’s rulers will be pleased or not pleased” (from a January speech at the National Cathedral in Washington).
On the rule of law: “In China, the law is optional, something that those in power use when it suits them and ignore when it doesn’t. The law in China is nothing more than empty words, just scraps of paper” (from the National Cathedral speech).
On whether the recent change in leadership has caused any increased openness in China: “Definitely not. I think it’s actually going backward. For example, the government recently announced the ‘7 no’ policy – seven topics that aren’t supposed to be mentioned by schools or party committees” (In an interview with journalists at the Oslo Freedom Forum in May).
On communism: “I think that Communism has always been a scam. When Marx was working on Communist ideology, he mentioned a few extremes, and he was painting too rosy a picture. To boil it down, I don’t think Hu Jintao or Xi Jinping believe in Communism themselves.
“And I don’t believe any of the political leaders believe in Communism themselves, otherwise they wouldn’t need to accept bribes, and they wouldn’t be so corrupt” (From the Oslo Freedom Forum event).
You must be registered to comment on stories. Click here to register.