2013-07~12
http://www.karachinews.net/index.php/sid/215731453/scat/8c3d7d78943a99c7

Karachi News - Sino-Pak relations: strengths and pitfalls

The oft-heard poetic flourishes indulged in by the officials of these Asian neighbors to describe their friendship were duly repeated during the five-day visit that concluded on Monday. Relations between China and Pakistan were built on the foundation of their shared hostility towards India, but evolved with the changing regional and global dynamics.

India has risen to be an economic giant and successfully sold itself as the largest democracy in the world. Both China and Pakistan are keen to normalize relations with India. This has shifted the focus of their energies to realizing the economic potential of their strategic partnership. Even their defense cooperation, such as joint building of JF-17 aircraft and transfer of technology, sometimes has an economic dimension.

Pakistan could make profits by manufacturing and selling this light aircraft to meet smaller countries' defense needs. China is interested in developing Pakistan's mineral resources-mainly concentrated in Balochistan province and developing alternative routes for its trade and energy imports through Pakistan. Islamabad, for its part, is keen to avail this opportunity to become a regional trade corridor, linking China to Central Asia and to the Arabian Sea.

Pakistan's deep sea Gwadar Port is located near the strategic Strait of Hormuz through which 35 percent of world's petroleum sea trade emanating from the Persian Gulf passes. Rail and road links between Gwadar and Xinjang province of China that borders Pakistan could offer a far shorter route to Chinese trade and energy imports.

Currently, China's oil imports have to undertake a 12,000 km journey from the Middle East through shipping lanes guarded by the U.S. and its allies to reach seaports in eastern China. These imports have to make an additional inland journey to reach western provinces, which can be easily reached through Pakistan by developing the necessary infrastructure. Likewise, manufactured goods from China's interior first travel east to port cities and then make an onward journey through air or sea.

In addition to significantly cutting costs and reducing shipping time, inland route through a trusted neighbor provides a strategic advantage of avoiding a sea route through the Indian Ocean that is vulnerable to interruption by others, including India and the U.S. Gwadar has been viewed with suspicion in India for its potential to provide deep water berthing facilities to the Chinese navy. However, experts have dismissed this concern because any ship lodged at Gwadar would be vulnerable to attack by the Indian Air Force in the event of a conflict.

Pakistan awarded the contract for developing Gwadar Port to a Chinese firm in 2002, which started its operation in 2008. In February this year, the control of the port was transferred to the state-owned China Overseas Ports Holding Company Ltd, boosting prospects of increase in trade through Pakistan.

All is not hunky-dory, however. Balochistan province, on whose coastline Gwadar Port is located and through which the proposed trade route will pass, is undergoing an insurgency. The Baloch youth took up arms in the mid-2000s to protest decades of marginalization and expropriation of their resources. Their presence threatens any new projects in Balochistan.

In addition, Pakistan's massive energy crisis and fragile internal security situation do not augur well for expanded investment. Chinese personnel working on different projects have been attacked throughout Pakistan. The most recent loss was the killing of a Chinese tourist along nine other foreigners and their Pakistani guide at the base camp of Nanga Parbatin Pakistan's Northern Areas.In these circumstances, it seems, all grand plans would have to wait until Pakistan sorts out its internal problems.

Unrest among the Uighur Muslim minority largely based in western Xinjiang province is also a cause of deep concern for China. During his visit to China, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif was urged by the Chinese officials to crack down on Uighur insurgents who are believed to be hiding in Pakistan's northwest.

Earlier this year, media reports suggested that militants belonging to East Turkistan Islamic Movement, which wants to create a Muslim state out of Xinjiang, were being trained in Pakistan's North Waziristan tribal agency.

It is a sign of the strength of their relation that China and Pakistan have been able to reconcile their differing interests and not allow the issues of concern to create rifts. Chinese officials have always chosen to discuss thorny issues behind closed doors and not embarrass Pakistan publicly for its many failings, quite unlike the U.S., whose officials are not averse to public bashing of Pakistan. Nevertheless, Pakistan would need to contribute meaningfully to maintain this longtime friendship. In his final address before leaving China, Nawaz Sharif recognized that Pakistan needs to take care of its energy crisis and curb militancy before any grand economic plan could take off.

The views expressed in the above article are that of Ishrat Saleem. The writer is a freelance journalist based in Washington, D.C. She can be reached at isaleem@syr.edu By Ishrat Saleem(ANI)
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): A complaint has been filed against Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan at the Ashok Nagar Police station in New Delhi for allegedly singing the national anthem incorrectly ...
Jammu (J-K), Mar 21 (ANI): Former chief minister Omar Abdullah on Monday questioned the hesitancy on the part of PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti over joining hands with the BJP to form the government in ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): With the uncertainty over the formation of a government in Jammu and Kashmir refusing to die down, People's Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti arrived here on ...
Islamabad, Mar. 21 (ANI): Ahead of the Pakistan Day celebrations on March 23, security has been stepped up in twin cities with the police launching search and combing operations.
Based on ...
Islamabad, Mar. 21 (ANI): Pakistan's Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) Rabita Committee Deputy Convener, Shahid Pasha, has been arrested by Rangers personnel in a raid on Monday.
"Rangers arrested MQM ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): After wooing her fans with the snaps of herself smeared in Holi colours while celebrating India's win over Pakistan in the T20, newlywed Preity Zinta is back with a new set ...
Islamabad, Mar. 20 (ANI): Pakistan Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Ahsan Iqbal has said that three universities being established on the western route of the China-Pakistan Economic ...
Islamabad, Mar. 20 (ANI): Pakistan today released 86 Indian fishermen, who were held for trespassing into its territorial waters officials said.
"We released 86 more Indian fishermen today," the ...
New Delhi, Mar.20 (ANI): The Met Department on Sunday issued an avalanche warning for the next 24 hours in the upper reaches areas of Kashmir advising people not to venture in these areas.
'Medium ...
Islamabad, Mar. 20 (ANI): The Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) lawmakers will protest against the federal government's decision to lift the travel ban against former president Pervez Musharraf during ...
Mohali, Mar.21 (ANI): After suffering a heart wrenching two-wicket defeat against arch-rival India in World T20 at the Eden Gardens, Pakistan T20 skipper Shahid Afridi on Monday called on his side ...
Karachi, Mar.21 (ANI): Pakistan all-rounder Shahid Afridi is likely to be sacked from the post of T20 skipper after the conclusion of the ongoing World T20 in India.
The news comes in the wake of ...
Karachi, Mar.21 (ANI): Following Pakistan's heart wrenching defeat at the hands of arch-rival India in the World T20 clash at Eden Gardens, Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) chairman Shahryar Khan has ...
Kolkata, Mar.20 (ANI): After suffering a two-wicket defeat at the hands of India in their World T20 match at the Eden Gardens, Pakistan all-rounder Shoaib Malik has highlighted that the batting ...
New Delhi, Mar.20 (ANI): The Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led side received flurry of wishes from the cricketing fraternity after they trounced arch-rival Pakistan by six wickets in their World T20 clash at ...
New Delhi, Mar.20 (ANI): Legendry cricketer Sachin Tendulkar has extended his gratitude to Indian batting mainstay Virat Kohli for his match-winning knock during his side's six-wicket win over ...
New Delhi. Mar. 20 (ANI): Bollywood's dimpled beauty Preity Zinta has recently marked India's World T20 victory by attending a holi party on the beach.
The 41-year-old actress, who was spotted ...
Police in Pakistan's port city of Karachi say a security guard has shot dead an 11-year-old boy who was wearing a "monster mask." They said the boy sneaked up on the guard in an attempt to scare ...
Islamabad, March 21 (IANS) Pakistan Navy (PN) warship, PNS ASLAT, has reached the French island of La Reunion to participate in a drill, the media reported on Monday. According to a PN statement on ...
Karachi, Mar. 20 (ANI): Pakistan's Ambassador to the United Nations, Maleeha Lodhi, has said Islamabad is determined to achieve gender equality and empower women as part of the United Nations ...
Karachi News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Karachi the largest and the most populous city of Pakistan, presents an interesting and colourful combination of the old and new. The narrow twisting lanes and alleys of the old city throb with life alongside wide metalled road and elegant modern building. Within the city, talented artisans with age-old skills produce handicrafts of exquisite beauty.
Karachi offers a variety of pleasant attractions, wide sunny beaches deep-sea fishing. yachting, golf and horseracing, all year round. Its restaurants cater to a wide choice of Pakistani and Western cuisines. Its markets and bazaars offer an endless variety of exciting shopping, including indigenous handicrafts. Particularly rugs and carpets of rare designs and beauty.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi will soon visit Brussels, Washington and Riyadh. While the visit to Belgium to attend the European Union-India summit and announce the restart of Free Trade Agreement ...
"It is clear that AMU is an institution of national importance and should be treated as such by the Central and State governments." Picture shows women outside the women's college in ...
"Yet in spite of the increase in the number of crimes in the name of honour, in spite of judgments and expressions of outrage in courts across India, successive governments have displayed ...
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has stated that ';criticism of the nation is not acceptable'; and that ';freedom of expression does not cover calls to destroy the ...
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from the United Nations Security Council sanctions list after a Chinese request, a media report said ...
BAMAKO, Mali – At least three unidentified gunmen opened fire in their attempt to force their entry into the European Union Training Mission (EUTM) headquarters in the capital of Mali, Bamako, ...
WASHINGTON - Bernie Sanders, lagging behind Hillary Clinton in the Democratic presidential race, scored a resounding win over his rival in the Democrats Abroad global primary. The group Democrats ...
LONDON – There are “clear downside risks” to the country if Britain left the European Union, ratings agency Moody’s said on Tuesday, warning that the exit from the bloc would also lead to ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
© 1999 - 2016 Karachi News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)