2013-07~12
http://www.thestar.com/news/world/2013/12/31/slovakia_to_take_in_three_more_guantanamo_bay_detainees.html

Guantanamo detainees: ‘Tragic’ case of Uighurs comes to end | Toronto Star
Terrorist attacks in Brussels leave at least 28 dead; ‘There was blood everywhere’
1.6M workers in Ontario aren't entitled to paid sick days

 Slovakia will take in three detainees from the U.S. prison at Guantanamo Bay, the central European country’s interior ministry said.

The last three Guantanamo detainees of Uighur ethnicity — men who opposed China, not the U.S. — were freed from the prison this week, ending their unlawful detention after nearly a dozen years.
Yusef Abbas, 38, Saidullah Khalik, 36 and Hajiakbar Abdul Ghuper, 39, were transferred to Slovakia, the U.S. State Department confirmed Tuesday morning.
“The United States is very grateful to Slovakia for its co-operation on a wide range of issues, and we deeply appreciate Slovakia’s humanitarian assistance in accepting these three individuals from Guantanamo,” Cliff Sloan, U.S. President Barack Obama’s Guantanamo envoy, said in a written statement.
Costa Rica had agreed to accept the men but withdrew its offer because of pressure from China, an Obama administration official familiar with the negotiations confirmed to the Star.
The three men, who had been living in a separate facility in Guantanamo known as Camp Iguana, were the last of the 22 Uighur captives to be released. Uighurs, a Muslim minority from China’s oil-rich Xinjiang province who struggle for independence and are persecuted by China’s communist government, were among the saddest and most diplomatically sensitive Guantanamo cases.
A federal judge ruled in 2008 that they were unlawfully detained but since they could not be sent back to China where they would likely be tortured or killed they remained trapped. It took years and many diplomatic favours to find countries willing to accept China’s condemnation and offer refuge, a task made more complicated when Congress enacted restrictions against settling any Guantanamo detainees on U.S. soil.
Slovakia, a central European country that accepted three other Guantanamo detainees in 2010, joins the ranks now of Albania, Switzerland, Palau, Bermuda and El Salvador in offering refuge to the Uighur men.
In the summer of 2001, the men had been living in Afghanistan after fleeing persecution at home, since Afghanistan is one of the few countries that will not deport Uighurs to China. When the war began in October, they fled to Pakistan and were detained by Pakistani forces as suspected Al Qaeda sympathizers and sold to the U.S. for $5,000 bounties.
At first the men said they were relieved to be in American custody and had been told by some of the U.S. interrogators that they would soon be released. But in 2002, as the U.S. sought China’s support for the Iraq war, the U.S. administration added a little-known Uighur group called the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) to the U.S. terrorism list and accused the Guantanamo 22 of membership.
None of the allegations was proven and the U.S. later abandoned its allegations that the men were “enemy combatants.” In the years since, both the Bush and Obama administrations had cleared the Uighurs for transfer out of Guantanamo, yet they remained trapped. The first five detainees left for Albania in 2006.
“Having years of your life taken away and spent in circumstances such as being detained at Guantanamo is not something that ever can be corrected or compensated,” said retired U.S. Federal Court Judge Ricardo Urbina.
“This is tragic, in that these people did nothing wrong,” Urbina said during a recent interview in Washington, his first public remarks since his landmark 2008 ruling on the Uighur case. “They were not enemies, and yet they lost great chunks of their lives, and their dignity and their ability to evolve within their culture and their religion because of political expediency and a failure of the American government to act accordingly.”
On Oct. 7, 2008, Urbina stunned a Washington courtroom by demanding that the remaining 17 Uighur detainees be brought from Guantanamo into his court three days later.
He said he was appalled that they were being held indefinitely.
“The evidence,” he said, “of both sides made it very clear there was nothing upon which I could base or anyone could base a conclusion that these were dangerous people.”
But the government won an emergency injunction against Urbina’s order and a year later the Federal Court of Appeals overturned his ruling.
Michelle Shephard is the Star’s National Security reporter and is producing a National Film Board/Radio-Canada documentary on the Uighur detainees with Montreal director Patricio Henriquez. Follow her on Twitter @shephardm.
Proposed Burma cabinet includes Suu Kyi but will she take the job?
Your daily read for Tuesday, March 22, 2016 in Toronto
How to pack like a pro for your next business trip