2013-07~12
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2013/11/06/Explosions-in-North-China-Communist-Party-building-kills-1-injures-8/UPI-71191383741148/

Explosions in North China: No arrests yet in Communist Party office building blast - UPI.com
TAIYUAN, China, Nov. 6 (UPI) -- Homemade bombs exploded Wednesday at the China Communist Party office building in Shanxi province, killing one person and injuring eight, police said.
Eight blasts were heard but a search by a bomb squad turned up no other devices, China's state-run news agency Xinhua reported.
Police in Taiyuan, the capital of Shanxi province, said ball bearings and circuit boards found scattered at the scene indicated homemade bombs were used.
Police haven't publicly identified potential suspects, The New York Times reported. Shanxi's Public Security Bureau said it was conducting an "all-out investigation."
The explosions occurred three days before the Chinese Communist Party's Central Committee was scheduled to conduct its third plenum, during which China's economic course for the next decade is set.
On Oct. 28, a sport utility vehicle plowed through a crowd of pedestrians then caught fire at the entrance to the Forbidden City in Beijing, killing five people, including the vehicle's three passengers, and injuring 40. Chinese officials said the attack was carried out by ethnic Uighur extremists from the Xinjiang region.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.