2013-07~12
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/oct/29/china-hunt-xinjiang-men-tiananmen-car-crash

Chinese police hunt for two Xinjiang men after deadly Tiananmen car crash | World news | The Guardian


Tuesday 29 October 2013 00.11 EDT


Last modified on Thursday 28 January 2016 10.04 EST


Chinese police are hunting for two or more men from the troubled region of Xinjiang amid growing suspicion that a fatal car crash and explosion in Tiananmen Square on Monday was a suicide attack.
The blaze happened metres from the giant portrait of Mao Zedong hanging at the main entrance to the Forbidden City, in the heart of Beijing – one of the most sensitive and tightly guarded spots in the Chinese capital.
"It was no accident. The SUV vehicle knocked down barricades and rammed into pedestrians. The three men had no plans to flee from the scene," an unnamed source told Reuters.
The news agency said its sources also indicated that the vehicle's occupants had lit a flammable substance and that the trio were suspected to be from Xinjiang, although police had not identified them. Officials have yet to comment publicly on whether they believe the crash was deliberate.
Two tourists and the SUV's three occupants died and 38 other people were injured when the vehicle ploughed into the crowd and exploded into flames. The SUV veered off the road through a gap in barriers, reportedly moving for several hundred metres and swerving around obstacles before hitting a stone structure. One witness said it appeared to be flying a white banner with black writing.
The English edition of the Global Times newspaper said a police officer had confirmed that police sent out a notice to hotels seeking two men from Xinjiang in connection with a "major case [that] had taken place on Monday".
The notice asked staff to report any suspicious guests who had registered since 1 October and their vehicles – describing a light-coloured SUV and four Xinjiang-issued licence plates – to prevent further crimes.
The men appeared to have Uighur names and one came from a town in which 24 police and civilians and 13 militants were killed in violence in June. It was not clear whether the police had specific reason to link the pair to Monday's crash, or whether they might be under suspicion because they were already wanted in connection with previous incidents.
On Wednesday a Beijing guesthouse manager told the Associated Press that police had circulated a list of up to eight suspects. Seven of the eight suspects on the list had names typical of the Turkic Muslim Uighur ethnic group native to Xinjiang, said the manager, who gave only her surname, Wu. She said the other individual's name appeared to be ethnically Chinese. Employees at a dozen other Beijing hotels refused to discuss the order, the Associated Press said, suggesting that police had ordered them to stay silent.
Xinjiang, an autonomous region in China's north-west, has experienced repeated outbreaks of violence, including vicious ethnic riots in 2009 that killed almost 200 in its capital, Urumqi, and at least two major fatal incidents this year.
There are long-running tensions between the state and the region's large Uighur Muslim population, with many angered by cultural and religious restrictions imposed by the Chinese authorities and some aspiring to independence for what they call East Turkestan.
The authorities have blamed separatist groups for fomenting trouble. But exiles and human right groups argue that the government has elided the distinction between dissent and extremism, and has been too quick to identify violence as terrorism and has overstated links between local groups and foreign radicals.
Officials warned this year that extremists were planning attacks outside the region and one state newspaper reported in July that the government suspected Syrian opposition forces were training individuals from Xinjiang to carry out attacks in China.
Nicholas Bequelin, senior Asia researcher at Human Rights Watch, said any kind of terrorist attack in the centre of Beijing would be unprecedented.
He noted that China has seen several suicide bombings and other attacks by people with personal grievances, often at high-profile spots. Last month a man, who has a disability, was jailed for six years after setting off a homemade bomb at Beijing airport over a long-running legal dispute. In 2009 three people from Xinjiang set themselves on fire in a car at Wangfujing, an area in Beijing not far from Tiananmen. Authorities said they were protesting over a land seizure dispute.
Bequelin said authorities had frequently failed to provide adequate evidence in cases of alleged separatist or terrorist acts. But he added that a fraction of disenfranchised young Uighurs had been radicalised by the government's heavy-handedness.
The web portal Uighurbiz.net said Ilham Tohti, a prominent Uighur scholar based in Beijing, warned against assigning blame without adequate evidence, but added that the use of extreme methods by Uighurs could not be ruled out.
"The use of violent means happens because all other outlets for expression are gone," he told Reuters.
Alim Seytoff, the spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress, said he feared a public backlash against Uighurs.
"Every time some kind of violent event takes place in East Turkestan or other parts of China, the Chinese media are quick to point fingers at Uighurs," he said. "Like many violent incidents in East Turkestan, we are highly unlikely to find out what truly took place."
The Chinese authorities initially erected screens around the site of the crash in Tiananmen Square, and quickly worked to clear away debris. State media has issued terse accounts of the incident, as often happens in sensitive cases, and censors have removed photographs and accounts from microblogs, although some were still visible.
The tourists who died were a Chinese man from Guangdong province and a Filipina. The authorities in the Philippines said her husband and one of their daughters were hospitalised, while their other child suffered minor injuries.
Tiananmen Square is best known in the west as the focus of the pro-democracy protests that were brutally crushed in 1989. But the area has long been the symbolic heart of Chinese authority.
Tiananmen - the Gate of Heavenly Peace - marks the southern boundary of the Forbidden City, the seat of China's emperors for centuries. In 1919, thousands of students gathered there to protest in what would later be called the May Fourth movement.
Mao Zedong proclaimed the founding of the People's Republic in 1949 from the rostrum – shortly before ordering the expansion of the square. It was there that he greeted millions of Red Guards during the cultural revolution. His mausoleum stands in the square; his 4.6 metres (15ft) by 3.7 metres portrait hangs from the gate.
On the west side of the square stands the Great Hall of the People, the location for meetings of China's mostly rubber-stamp parliament and other set-piece political occasions such as the recent transfer of power to a new generation of leaders. Zhongnanhai, the red-walled leadership compound where the party elite live and work, is close by.
Nicholas Bequelin of Human Rights Watch notes that the extremely sensitive and tightly policed site even has its own regulations on public order. Tiananmen is patrolled by uniformed and plain clothes officers and dotted with fire extinguishers in case of self-immolations. Officials say five members of the much persecuted Falun Gong religion set fire to themselves in the square in 2001. Falun Gong groups overseas dispute that - and in 2011 a man set himself alight near the site of the car crash. He survived.
• This article was amended on 31 October 2013 because the original said fermenting when fomenting was meant.
Sign in
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.


We’re doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.

At least one person killed and more injured amid several blasts outside building in Taiyuan, capital of Shanxi province
The aftermath of several explosions outside a Communist party building in the northern Chinese city of Taiyuan