2013-07~12
http://www.patheos.com/blogs/mmw/2013/08/friday-links-august-30-2013/

Friday Links | August 30, 2013
Looking at Muslim women in the media and pop culture
The hijab campaign after the attack of a woman in hijab has divided Sweden; some critics say that the campaign a symbol of oppression. Meanwhile, the pregnant Muslim woman has been attacked again, according to Stockholm police.
A French teenager who was assaulted by skinheads earlier this month for wearing the hijab has attempted to commit suicide by jumping off a building.
WeNews speaks to several women in Turkey about their concerns about the recent statements by the Turkish prime minister in favor of large families.
The Dhaka Tribune features a piece on the difficulties lesbians face in Bangladesh in order to be accepted as such.
Afghanistan’s election monitor fears that women across Afghanistan will be unable to vote during the presidential elections next year, due to the lack of female security forces to protect them.
A visitor of the Hargeisa International Book Fair in Somaliland, one of the largest literary and arts celebrations in the region. Image by Kate Stanworth/BBC.
A Thai police committee has decided that female Muslim police officers can wear the hijab as part of the uniform, with long-sleeved shirts and pants that cover the ankles. There are approximately 100 female Muslim officers in Thailand; around 60 of them have requested to be allowed to wear the hijab on duty.
With the help of donors, Bangladesh has invested a lot in maternal health care, and the childbirth risks have been significantly reduced.
Muslim clerics in Indonesia have been speaking out against the Miss World pageant, which will be held in Indonesia next month – the reason being that it goes against Islamic teachings for women to expose their bodies.
A minor girl in Kerala says that she has been forced by the orphanage where she was staying to marry a Gulf national, who abandoned her soon after. She has filed a complaint against the orphanage.
According to a recent decision, daughters of expatriates in Saudi Arabia are not allowed to work anymore in the country, unlike their mothers and brothers, despite the fact that many of them are born and raised in Saudi Arabia.
Muslim women in Malawi are threatening to boycott the yearly conference for Muslim women, as the colors that will be featured there are the colors of the leading political party.
Arzugul Memet, a Uyghur woman living in Urumqi, Xinjiang province, China, has been evicted from her rented home, because of her face veil.
A Muslim woman who says that she was stopped for investigation at a British airport without reasonable suspicion is awaiting a ruling by the court on whether or not her rights were breached.
Sudan Vision features an article on The Women Believers Mission, which teaches illiterate Sudanese women to read and write, study the Quran and change their lives.
The demands of the new, wealthy and conservative middle class in Turkey has resulted in a fast growth of the Islamic fashion industry in the country.
Saudi Arabia has passed a historic legislation, which acknowledges domestic abuse as an offense deserving investigation, prosecution and punishment by law.
Police in the Catalonia region in Spain are keeping a close eye on all women who wear a face veil, to determine if they are linked to terrorism.
A report in Thailand calls for a greater role for Malayu Muslim women in the peace negotiations in southern Thailand.
Iran will appoint the first female ambassador and spokeswoman since 1979, says a spokesman for the Iranian Foreign Ministry.
A British judge has decided that a Muslim woman must remove her face veil to enter a plea in court.
Copyright 2008-2016, Patheos. All rights reserved.      Terms of Service  | Patheos Privacy Policy  | Website Development By Patheos Labs