2013-07~12
http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2013-08/24/content_16918581.htm

Singapore PM to make official visit to China |Politics |chinadaily.com.cn
SINGAPORE - Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong will make an official visit to China from Sunday till next Saturday at the invitation of Chinese Premier Li Keqiang.
Besides Beijing, Lee will also visit China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and Liaoning Province, according to the Prime Minister's Office.
In Beijing, Prime Minister Lee will call on President Xi Jinping. Premier Li Keqiang will meet and host Lee to lunch at the Great Hall of the People.
In Xinjiang, Lee will be hosted to a welcome dinner by Zhang Chunxian, secretary of the Communist Party of China(CPC)'s Xinjiang committee.
Prime Minister Lee will visit the cities of Urumqi, Shihezi and Kashgar for an update on local developments. In Liaoning, he will meet with Wang Min, secretary of the CPC Liaoning Provincial Committee. He will also be visiting Singapore and Chinese companies in Liaoning.
Lee will be accompanied by Acting Minister for Manpower and Senior Minister of State for National Development Tan Chuan-Jin and Senior Minister of State for Trade and Industry and for National Development Lee Yi Shyan.
They will also be joined by Senior Parliamentary Secretary for Education and for Manpower Hawazi Daipi, Senior Parliamentary Secretary for Education and for Communications and Information Sim Ann, Member of Parliament Liang Eng Hwa and senior officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Ministry of Trade and Industry.
Chinese dream, Xi Jinping, Mass line,Edward Snowden, corruption, Apple, DPRK, Diaoyu Islands, Syria, Taiwan, HK, Tibet, Beijing, Li Na, Sun Yang, My China Story, IAAF World Championships, Trending news across China
Copyright 1995 - 



 . All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form. Note: Browsers with 1024*768 or higher resolution are suggested for this site.