2013-07~12
http://europe.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2013-07/01/content_16700597.htm

Commentary: Zero tolerance to terrorist crimes|Politics|chinadaily.com.cn
BEIJING - The violent terrorist attacks that occurred in China's far western region of Xinjiang last week have shocked people in and outside China.
While the terror was condemned, there was a weird noise claiming that the terrorists should not be blamed.
One can hardly find a country in the world would give in to terrorists. Weakness and surrender should never be the choices of the governments of the people as the move would put more innocent lives under threat.
Instead, any responsible government in the world would resort to unshaken crackdowns in a bid to root out terrorism, the common enemy of humankind.
The ruthless attacks by 16 knife-wielding religious extremists Wednesday in Shanshan County of Turpan Prefecture killed 24 people, of whom 16 were from the Uygur ethnic group. Local police shot and killed 11 of the rioters and captured the rest five.
The bestial crimes are wanton disruptions of public stability and show the mobs' anti-society and anti-human nature as they killed law enforcement officers and civilians. No such terrorist crimes should be tolerated at any corner on this planet as long as justice shines.
The frenzied attacks must be met with resolute and lawful crackdowns and otherwise, there would be no longer something called social order, development, and peace that lies at the bottom of people's hearts.
China has pleged to strike hard on violent terrorist attacks according to law and maintain social stability in Xinjiang.
The armed police were ordered to carry out 24-hour patrol on all weather conditions and to take precautionary and preemptive measures to strike hard on violent terrorist crimes.
The crackdown is a deterent to the "three forces" of terrorism, extremism and separatism in and outside the country and also is a must to help to restore safety to the local people.
The "three forces" have long been seeking to damage national unity and disrupt social stability to achieve the aim of splitting the country. Their anti-society and anti-human nature makes them the common enemy of people of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang.
To harshly clamp down on the violent terrorist activities to maintain national unity and social stability is in line with the foundamental interests of all local ethnic groups. Whoever attempts to take provovative acts against the public's foundamental interests must be cracked down harshly and brought to justice.