2013-07~12
http://www.mercurynews.com/nation-world/ci_24824138/wire-goodbye-gitmo-s-sudan-rebel-romp-targets

The Wire: Goodbye Gitmo; S. Sudan rebel romp; Target's new goof; MSNBC's dumb joke - San Jose Mercury News
National editor's pick of the top news stories in the nation and world at this hour:
Quietly ending more than a decade of false imprisonment, three Chinese Uighurs captured in Afghanistan in 2002 and mistaken for anti-American militants have been released from Guantanamo Bay and sent to Slovakia. They are the last of 22 Uighurs, members of a persecuted Muslim minority in China who had fled to Afghanistan and were swept up in the U.S. invasion that followed the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Some of them were strongly pro-American and thought they had been saved when they were handed over to U.S. forces, advocates say. They were found not to be enemy combatants years ago and were ordered freed, but finding a home for them proved a major diplomatic dilemma, in part because China wanted them handed over for prosecution. Some were accepted by Albania, and Slovakia has accepted others previously. "Slovakia deserves a lot of credit because they were willing to do what large countries like the United States, Canada and Germany were unwilling to do, which was to resist diplomatic pressure from China and the stigma of Guantanamo," said Wells Dixon, a lawyer who worked for years to secure their release. The release of the three men brings the prisoner population at the U.S. base in Cuba to 155.
Rebels in South Sudan agreed to peace talks for the first time Tuesday even as they recaptured most of the key city of Bor, likely giving them an upper hand at cease-fire negotiations. Forces loyal to the ousted vice president, Riek Machar, engaged in heavy fighting with government troops loyal to President Salva Kiir and captured most or all of Bor, which is 75 miles from the capital Juba, a U.S. official said. Bor is where gunfire hit three U.S. helicopters, wounding four U.S. service members who were trying to evacuate Americans on Dec. 21. The U.S. envoy to the region, Donald Booth, met with Kiir and spoke with Machar on Tuesday and said they had agreed to hold talks soon in Ethiopia, the first diplomatic breakthrough in violence that has killed at least 1,000 people, some of them in ethnic violence. Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni, an ally of Kiir, warned Machar on Monday that if he does not agree to negotiate, "we shall have to go for him, all of us."
Shortly after admitting that 40 million debit and credit cards used at its stores were hacked, Target said Tuesday that an unspecified number of gift cards bought recently weren't properly activated. The Minneapolis chain says the number of cards affected was less than 0.1 percent of the total sold and that it will honor the affected cards. Holders of Target gift cards can check the balance by following instructions on the back, and customers can bring faulty cards to any Target service desk or call 800-544-2943 for help. "We are aware that some Target gift cards were not fully activated and apologize for the inconvenience," company spokeswoman Molly Snyder said in a statement.
Fox News recently got a lot of unwelcome attention for claiming that Santa Claus and Jesus are white, but now it's MSNBC's turn to be taken to the woodshed for racial insensitivity. The liberal news network on Sunday showed a picture of Mitt Romney's large family, which includes his adopted black grandchild Kieran -- and then the hosts decided that was funny. Melissa Harris-Perry apologized Tuesday for a segment that took an unexpected and offensive turn. One guest on her show, actress Pia Glenn, sang, "One of these things just isn't the same." Another, comedian Dean Obeidallah, said it "sums up the diversity of the Republican Party." Harris-Perry said she'd like to see Kieran marry Kanye West's daughter so West and Romney would be in-laws. LOL, MSNBC, that's some real hilarious stupidity.
The Wire, a summary of top national and world news stories from the Associated Press and other wire services, moves weekdays. Contact Karl Kahler at 408-920-5023; follow him at twitter.com/karl_kahler.