2013-07~12
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Police:-Uyghur-suspects-behind-Tiananmen-accident-29399.html

CHINA Police: Uyghur suspects behind Tiananmen accident
Beijing ( AsiaNews ) - Beijing police
suspect that yesterday's incident - where a car drove into some tourists in
Tiananmen Square , and then exploded , killing all passengers - was carried out
by Uyghurs suicide terrorists. The
incident occurred almost under the large portrait of Mao Zedong that dominates
the front of the Imperial Palace , a few dozen meters from Zhongnanhai, home to
many leaders.
The
incident took place yesterday at noon and in addition to the three people in
the car (an SUV ) , killed a further two people, a Chinese man and a
Filipino national, leaving 38 injured. Police
and firefighters have cordoned off the area from public view.

Today,
the English edition of the Global Times,
part of the People's Daily , said that the police have linked the incident with
the Xinjiang and some Uyghur suspects . But the
Chinese edition does not mention anything about Xinjiang .

Yesterday,
all day censors removed any news or comments about the incident from the web, allowing
only the official version of Xinhua.
Last night and today the police launched
a manhunt to gather information on two Uyghur men and four cars with the Xinjiang
license plate. Ilham
Tohti , a Uyghur intellectual , writing on the website Uighurbiz.net , pleaded
for caution because it is easy to blame the Uyghurs and increase control over the
ethnic minority.

The
western region of Xinjiang has been shaken by Islamic Uyghur nationalist
movements for decades. For
the most part they seek greater autonomy from the cultural and commercial dictatorship
of the central government that has colonized the region with millions of Han immigrants
and hundreds of thousands of soldiers.
The settlement also involves
religion: Islam is strongly controlled in Uyghur schools, mosques, and society.

In
the past there have been incidents and clashes between Uyghurs and Han in
Xinjiang, as well as attacks that the government in Beijing has branded as
"terrorist" , though often conducted with makeshift equipment (
petrol bombs , knives , plastic , etc. ... ) .

The
Chinese edition of the Global Times today warns against "politicizing
" the incident in Tiananmen too. Tiananmen Square, site of the infamous
massacre on June 4, 1989 , is subject to a heavy security cordon to prevent
even the slightest protest .

In
China, large-scale corruption d throughout the Party has led to over 180
thousand "mass incidents" a year, in which different groups -
farmers, workers , retirees, ex-military , ... -
Clashed with police , often violently.

A
source for AsiaNews in Beijing said: "The party is seeking to water down
this incident, but it reveals the profound dissatisfaction and fatigue of the
whole population , not only of the Uyghurs".
AsiaNews spoke to Josephine, one of hundreds of Christians from Al-Hasakah, who spent a year in the hands of the Islamic State group. She talked about psychological suffering, conversion attempts, and separation from her male relatives. She survived thanks to her faith. Her mother Caroline, a Caritas official, is the only one in her family to have been spared the ordeal. She also negotiated their release with IS, and gave a Jihadi copies of the Bible. Now she hopes “to meet the pope” with her entire family.
Sister Rani Maria was killed in 1995, stabbed 54 times. The murderer was a radical Hindu, incited by village leaders, who wanted to stop the nun's activities in favor of tribal poor. The path "that led me to forgive Samunder Singh has not been easy, but now he's my brother." Instead, "my mother said once: 'I would kiss his hands, because on them there is the blood of my daughter'." The exchange of the Indian bracelet that celebrates love between siblings; the moment of encounter with the victim's mother.

 
2003 © All rights reserved - AsiaNews C.F. e P.Iva: 00889190153 - GLACOM®
Copyright ÂŠ 2003 AsiaNews C.F. 00889190153 All rights reserved. Content on this site is made available for personal, non-commercial use only. You may not reproduce, republish, sell or otherwise distribute the content or any modified or altered versions of it without the express written permission of the editor. Photos on AsiaNews.it are largely taken from the internet and thus considered to be in the public domain. Anyone contrary to their publication need only contact the editorial office which will immediately proceed to remove the photos.