2013-07~12
http://www.karachinews.net/index.php/sid/215682146/scat/8c3d7d78943a99c7

Karachi News - Pakistan to boost cooperation with China

The cooperation achievements made by Pakistan and China's Guangdong province reflect the profound friendship between people of the two nations, reported Xinhua citing Sharif while visiting the province.

On this occasion, provincial governor Zhu Xiaodan said Guangdong is willing to boost bilateral trade and two-way investment, and promote cooperation in the fields of power industry, infrastructure construction, tourism and agriculture with Pakistan.

The province, said Zhu, will put in more efforts to support the development of Kashgar in Xinjiang Uygur Region, which contribute to the construction of an economic corridor between the two countries.
New Delhi, Mar. 22 (ANI): Terming the meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the government formation in Jammu and Kashmir as a 'positive' one, People's Democratic Party (PDP) Chief Mehbooba ...
Karachi, Mar.22 (ANI): A day after calling on his countrymen to not expect much from Pakistan in the World T20, Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) chairman Shaharyar Khan went back on his words, saying ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): A complaint has been filed against Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan at the Ashok Nagar Police station in New Delhi for allegedly singing the national anthem incorrectly ...
Jammu (J-K), Mar 21 (ANI): Former chief minister Omar Abdullah on Monday questioned the hesitancy on the part of PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti over joining hands with the BJP to form the government in ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): With the uncertainty over the formation of a government in Jammu and Kashmir refusing to die down, People's Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti arrived here on ...
Islamabad, Mar. 21 (ANI): Ahead of the Pakistan Day celebrations on March 23, security has been stepped up in twin cities with the police launching search and combing operations.
Based on ...
Islamabad, Mar. 21 (ANI): Pakistan's Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) Rabita Committee Deputy Convener, Shahid Pasha, has been arrested by Rangers personnel in a raid on Monday.
"Rangers arrested MQM ...
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): After wooing her fans with the snaps of herself smeared in Holi colours while celebrating India's win over Pakistan in the T20, newlywed Preity Zinta is back with a new set ...
Islamabad, Mar. 20 (ANI): Pakistan Minister for Planning, Development and Reform Ahsan Iqbal has said that three universities being established on the western route of the China-Pakistan Economic ...
Islamabad, Mar. 20 (ANI): Pakistan today released 86 Indian fishermen, who were held for trespassing into its territorial waters officials said.
"We released 86 more Indian fishermen today," the ...
New Delhi, Mar.20 (ANI): The Met Department on Sunday issued an avalanche warning for the next 24 hours in the upper reaches areas of Kashmir advising people not to venture in these areas.
'Medium ...
Islamabad, Mar. 20 (ANI): The Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) lawmakers will protest against the federal government's decision to lift the travel ban against former president Pervez Musharraf during ...
Mohali, Mar.21 (ANI): After suffering a heart wrenching two-wicket defeat against arch-rival India in World T20 at the Eden Gardens, Pakistan T20 skipper Shahid Afridi on Monday called on his side ...
Karachi, Mar.21 (ANI): Pakistan all-rounder Shahid Afridi is likely to be sacked from the post of T20 skipper after the conclusion of the ongoing World T20 in India.
The news comes in the wake of ...
Karachi, Mar.21 (ANI): Following Pakistan's heart wrenching defeat at the hands of arch-rival India in the World T20 clash at Eden Gardens, Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) chairman Shahryar Khan has ...
Kolkata, Mar.20 (ANI): After suffering a two-wicket defeat at the hands of India in their World T20 match at the Eden Gardens, Pakistan all-rounder Shoaib Malik has highlighted that the batting ...
New Delhi, Mar.20 (ANI): The Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led side received flurry of wishes from the cricketing fraternity after they trounced arch-rival Pakistan by six wickets in their World T20 clash at ...
New Delhi, Mar.20 (ANI): Legendry cricketer Sachin Tendulkar has extended his gratitude to Indian batting mainstay Virat Kohli for his match-winning knock during his side's six-wicket win over ...
New Delhi. Mar. 20 (ANI): Bollywood's dimpled beauty Preity Zinta has recently marked India's World T20 victory by attending a holi party on the beach.
The 41-year-old actress, who was spotted ...
Islamabad - A Pakistani police officer says at least 17 Hindus have died after consuming illegally-made alcohol during religious celebrations in southern Pakistan.
Niaz Shah said Tuesday that 37 ...
Karachi News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Karachi the largest and the most populous city of Pakistan, presents an interesting and colourful combination of the old and new. The narrow twisting lanes and alleys of the old city throb with life alongside wide metalled road and elegant modern building. Within the city, talented artisans with age-old skills produce handicrafts of exquisite beauty.
Karachi offers a variety of pleasant attractions, wide sunny beaches deep-sea fishing. yachting, golf and horseracing, all year round. Its restaurants cater to a wide choice of Pakistani and Western cuisines. Its markets and bazaars offer an endless variety of exciting shopping, including indigenous handicrafts. Particularly rugs and carpets of rare designs and beauty.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi will soon visit Brussels, Washington and Riyadh. While the visit to Belgium to attend the European Union-India summit and announce the restart of Free Trade Agreement ...
"It is clear that AMU is an institution of national importance and should be treated as such by the Central and State governments." Picture shows women outside the women's college in ...
"Yet in spite of the increase in the number of crimes in the name of honour, in spite of judgments and expressions of outrage in courts across India, successive governments have displayed ...
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has stated that ';criticism of the nation is not acceptable'; and that ';freedom of expression does not cover calls to destroy the ...
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from the United Nations Security Council sanctions list after a Chinese request, a media report said ...
BAMAKO, Mali – At least three unidentified gunmen opened fire in their attempt to force their entry into the European Union Training Mission (EUTM) headquarters in the capital of Mali, Bamako, ...
WASHINGTON - Bernie Sanders, lagging behind Hillary Clinton in the Democratic presidential race, scored a resounding win over his rival in the Democrats Abroad global primary. The group Democrats ...
LONDON – There are “clear downside risks” to the country if Britain left the European Union, ratings agency Moody’s said on Tuesday, warning that the exit from the bloc would also lead to ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
© 1999 - 2016 Karachi News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)