2013-07~12
http://www.nzweek.com/business/intervention-necessary-to-spread-wind-power-usage-2-66455/

Intervention necessary to spread wind power usage - NZweek
To better utilize electricity generated by wind power in northern China and ease the strain on local energy grids in the winter, the National Energy Administration (NEA) is now committed to promoting the development of wind-to-heat projects in areas where conditions are suitable. This stance is intended to not only promote clean energy use, but also reduce air pollution generated from the burning of fossil fuels.
According to an NEA notice, relevant authorities in the provinces of Jilin, Hebei, Shanxi, Heilongjiang, Liaoning as well as the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region are urged to start pilot testing of wind-to-heat technology. Specifically, new buildings are encouraged to use wind power for heating in order to step up wind power allocation over the next two to three years.
Since 2006, wind power technology has matured rapidly and wind power facilities are now in place all over China. Indeed, last year saw China become the world’s leader in terms of installed wind power capacity. In the four years through 2012, capacity increased by more than 12 million kilowatts annually. Large-scale wind farms have also made wind power the second largest energy source in several of China’s northern and coastal regions.
But after more than half a decade of booming development, wind-generated electricity supply has far outstripped demand in many northern areas.
This means that much of the power being cranked out by wind turbines just ends up getting squandered, dragging down the profits of the industry as a result.
In 2011, more than 12 percent of the electricity produced at China’s wind power plants – or the equivalent of 3.3 million tons of standard coal – went to waste. Meanwhile, wind companies suffered losses of more than 5 billion yuan ($817 million) because of this superfluous output, a sum equal to about half of the whole industry’s profits during that year. And the waste has only increased since then – in 2012, 21.8 billion kilowatt hours of wind energy went nowhere. For those keeping score, one would need about 6.5 million tons of standard coal (costing about 10 million yuan) to generate the same amount of power.
Beyond the NEA’s latest efforts to drum up demand for clean energy, more work still needs to be done to strengthen China’s underdeveloped power transmission infrastructure to expand consumption of wind-generated power. Inner Mongolia, for instance, consistently posts a loss rate of about 25 percent because of thin local demand. Right now, it is essential that wind power produced in this region gets transmitted to places which could actually put it to good use.
China’s wind power industry has turned a corner and is now in a new stage of development. It currently requires official help in order to promote rational consumption.
The author is a research fellow with Zero2IPO Research Center. bizopinion@globaltimes.com.cn
Copyright © 2016 NZweek. All the material on this page has the protection of international copyright. All Rights Reserved.