2013-07~12
http://www.emirates247.com/business/economy-finance/china-economic-corridor-via-pak-2013-07-06-1.513310

China 'economic corridor' via Pak - Emirates 24|7
An official (R) raises a Pakistani national flag as he prepares for the arrival of Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif during a welcoming ceremony outside the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on July 5,2013. Sharif is on a visit to China from July 3 to 8. (AFP)
China and Pakistan set their sights Friday on developing a transport link from northwestern China through rugged Pakistani mountains to the Arabian Sea, a route they hope will boost economic growth and slash shipping times, the Associated Press (AP) has reported.
A broad agreement for the "economic corridor" was among eight pacts signed following a meeting in Beijing between Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. The transport link was described as a "long-term plan" to connect the Chinese city of Kashgar to the port of Gwadar, more than 2,000 kilometers  (1,240 miles) away across the towering Karakoram mountains and Pakistan's lawless Baluchistan province.
Another agreement will see a fiber optic cable laid from the Chinese border to the Pakistani city of Rawalpindi that will boost Pakistan's access to international communications networks. China is to provide 85 percent of the financing for the three-year project's $44 million budget, with Pakistan covering the rest.
According to AP, the visit is Sharif's first to his country's close ally since he returned to power last month, highlighting the importance Pakistan places on its 63-year-old relationship with China. The two cooperate closely in diplomatic and defense affairs, and share a common rival in their mutual neighbor and occasional military opponent India.
"Let me tell you very candidly and very sincerely that what I am witnessing here on my visit to Beijing, it reminds me of the saying our friendship is higher than the Himalayas and deeper than the deepest sea in the world, and sweeter than honey," Sharif told Li at the start of their meeting, employing the usually effusive language with which the two nations describe their relationship.
China provides Pakistan with aid and foreign investment, while Islamabad offers Beijing important diplomatic backing in the face of Muslim-majority nations who might otherwise criticise China's handling of its Muslim population.
Pakistan is hoping to attract greater Chinese investment to revive its moribund economy beset by inefficiency, corruption, political instability, and chronic electricity shortages, while expanding two-way trade that exceeded $12 billion for the first time last year.
For its part, China wants Pakistan to crack down on insurgents from China's Muslim Uighur minority who have taken refuge in Pakistan's northwest alongside Al Qaeda-linked extremists. Pakistan says it has killed or extradited several of those militants over the past few years, but acknowledges that some remain at large in the area. 
Hopes for road, rail and pipeline links from Kashgar to the presently little used port at Gwadar received a major boost when control of the port was transferred to China's state-owned China Overseas Ports Holding Company Ltd. in February. Built by Chinese workers and opened in 2007, it is undergoing a major expansion to turn it into a full-fledged, deep water commercial port.
Located just outside the mouth of the Persian Gulf, Gwadar has the potential of vastly cutting the 12,000-kilometer (7,500-mile) route that Mideast oil supplies must now take to reach Chinese ports. It could also provide an outlet for copper and other resources that Chinese firms plan to mine in Afghanistan, while offering a base for China's navy to operate in the Indian Ocean in competition with India.
China has already begun upgrading the Karakoram Highway that runs through the northwestern Xinjiang region to the Pakistan border and has dispatched workers to develop projects high in the mountains of the Pakistan-controlled part of Kashmir.
The geographical and security challenges to the link remain daunting, however, and any working link is likely many years away. It would go through territory menaced by the Pakistani Taliban, while nationalists in Baluchistan view it as an attempt by the ethnic Punjabis who largely run Pakistan to strengthen their control over the desert region and plunder its natural resources.

Minister of State for Youth Affairs Shamma Al Mazrui says direct channels need to be opened with young people, using their language and modern technology



Fix surveillance cameras on tower cranes or any high place: Dubai Municipality



Region’s airports are among the ‘smartest’ buildings; school buildings are least ‘smart’



LiFi is 100 times faster than WiFi technology as well as being significantly cheaper



In 2015, 150,000 medical tourists used 1,400 of Dubai’s 2,900 healthcare facilities



Gold rates for Tuesday, Mar 22, 2016   Daily MORNING 9:00 AM AFTERNOON 3:00 PM EVENING 5:00 PM LATE EVENING 8:00 PM 



The world's longest aircraft, an airship spanning more than six double-decker buses, is set to make its maiden flight 



When Barcelona superstar Lionel Messi isn't breaking records he's breaking limbs, as one unlucky fan.



An adorable video has emerged of a little girl telling her dad that she is getting ready to go on a date with Harry 



Ukrainian driver takes a different approach to a traffic jam - by going down the other side of the road in reverse.



In the background of an airport interview for Sports Center on Norwegian TV a woman is there one minute...and not the 



The girl plants an innocent kiss on the glass in front of the lion.



Sub-Dh1,700, 4-inch device has specs that match the premium iPhone 6s



Fix surveillance cameras on tower cranes or any high place: Dubai Municipality



Court rules her Native American blood requires her placement with relatives



Women and children flee to relatives' and friends' houses in Dubai and other emirates to escape heat



Fare ranges between Dh50 and Dh570 for regular trips and Dh400 per hour for tourist journey



A prominent Saudi psychiatrist has urged local families to market their daughters for early marriage, saying this would

