2013-07~12
http://www.independent.ie/world-news/asia-pacific/chinese-police-use-battalions-of-plucky-geese-to-keep-peace-29435141.html

Chinese police use battalions of plucky geese to keep peace - Independent.ie

Security chiefs in a remote and restive pocket of western China have deployed a new weapon in their fight to maintain order: battalions of honking geese.

Police forces in rural corners of Xinjiang province have been sending geese out on patrol since earlier this year, according to a report on the website of the state-run 'People's Daily' newspaper.
"Among all poultry, geese (are known) for being extremely vigilant and having excellent hearing," Zhang Quansheng, a police chief in Xinjiang's Shawan county, told the newspaper.
He said the use of crime-fighting geese was now being "actively promoted" across the region.
Law enforcement agents described the geese as a new "highlight of stability maintenance work" and said they had proved themselves "better than dogs" in tackling crime.
"Geese are very brave. They spread their wings and will attack any strangers entering (someone's) home," said Mr Zhang, the local police chief. The birds were like "a radar that does not need power", he added.
"In some ways, they are more useful than dogs; a household normally keeps one dog (but) an intruder can throw a drugged bun to kill the dog.
"Geese are normally kept in groups and they have poor eyesight at night making it very difficult for intruders to (poison them)." (© Daily Telegraph, London)
Jonathan Pearlman in Sydney Malcolm Turnbull, Australia's prime minister, has recalled parliament and threatened to call an early general election - most likely for July 2 - saying "the time for playing games is over".
Elephants have killed five people in two separate attacks in eastern India, an official said.
Debris found earlier this month off the southeast African coast which some believe could be from a missing Malaysia Airlines flight has arrived in Australia for testing, officials said today, two years after the plane disappeared.

'It had all the attributes of 'a win, is a win, is a win''

Several bomb attacks have thrown the spotlight on security in Turkey. Here...

Le Monde have revealed a poignant cartoon in the wake...

The legs of some of those killed at Brussels airport on Tuesday...

The Irish community in Brussels has been using social media to...

Taoiseach Enda Kenny has told the numbers dead in Brussels are...

The Brussels attacks would have taken "quite a while" to plan...

Dublin MEP Brian Hayes was on the Brussels Metro this morning...

At least 17 Hindus have died after consuming illegally-made alcohol during religious celebrations in...

An armed British ship believed to be carrying enough plutonium...

Burma's president-elect has proposed an 18-member Cabinet which will include party leader...

Explosions, at least one likely caused by a suicide bomber, rocked the Brussels airport and...

At least 21 people have been killed and many others injured in a...

Foreign secretary Philip Hammond says Britain is in contact with...

Footage courtsey of Jef Versele shows debris inside the Brussels...

US President Barack Obama shakes hand with Cuban President Raul Castro in Havana during the US...

An elephant has killed a man in West Bengal, India. The incident captured on a smartphone...

Footage released by ESA shows astronauts Tim Peake and Scott Kelly zapping aliens as part of...