2013-07~12
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2013-11-17/nine-axewielding-assailants-reportedly-killed-during-police-station-attack-in-xinjiang/1221012

Nine axe-wielding assailants reportedly killed during police station attack in Xinjiang | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
Nine axe-wielding assailants have reportedly been killed during an attack on a Xinjiang police station.
Nine axe-wielding assailants have been shot dead during an attack on a police station in China's restive Xinjiang region, state media has reported.
Xinhua news agency said the attack occurred early Saturday morning in the Serikbuya Township of Bachu County in Kashgar Prefecture.
Xinhua said the attackers killed two police officers and injured two others.
The reported incident comes at a time of heightened tensions in Xinjiang following a fatal attack in Beijing's Tiananmen Square last month.
Beijing blamed Uighur separatists from Xinjiang backed by the violent Islamist militant East Turkestan Islamic Movement.
Chinese state-run media have reported periodic bouts of violence in Xinjiang - a vast, resource-rich region that makes up much of China's western flank - which Beijing often describes as "terrorist attacks".
One such incident in June left 35 people dead, and 139 people have been arrested in recent months for spreading jihadist ideology.
The mainly Muslim Uighurs, the largest ethnic group in Xinjiang, routinely complain of rights abuses against them by the authorities and dismiss claims of terrorism and separatism as an excuse by Beijing to justify religious and security restrictions.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.