2013-07~12
http://voiceofrussia.com/2013_10_30/Beijing-terrorist-attack-reason-for-China-to-justify-crackdown-on-Uyghur-separatism-expert-6138/

Beijing 'terrorist attack': reason for China to justify crackdown on Uyghur separatism - expert - News - World - The Voice of Russia: News, Breaking news, Politics, Economics, Business, Russia, International current events, Expert opinion, podcasts, Video
Chinese police have caught 5 suspects from its restive Xinjiang region in connection with the Monday deadly car accident in Beijing. Five people were killed and 38 more injured when a car ploughed into pedestrians and caught fire in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, the site of a bloody crackdown on pro-democracy protesters in 1989. Judging by their names, the suspects appeared to be ethnic Uighurs, who are Turkic-speaking Muslims from Xinjiang and who oppose Chinese controls on their culture and religion. Roderic Wye, Associate Fellow at Asia Programme of Chatham HouseRoderic, discussed the issue with the VoR.
Do you think the accident was a terrorist act? Was it domestic violence or international?
We now know that the Chinese authorities are certainly describing it as a terrorist attack. They’ve named the three people in the car, a man, his wife and his mother and they’ve detained what they call as several other suspects and they call it a car-flee planned, organized and premeditated attack. I think the Chinese official narrative will be on the lines of the further instance of terrorism emanating from Xinjiang and Uighur minority in Xinjiang. Why a man, his wife and his mother were undertaking such an attack is very unclear. It seems to me that it is quite possible that there was another motivation. Nonetheless, of course, I think the motivation will have been to make a protest, a demonstration in that very sensitive place Tiananmen Square in China.
Could it be that the Chinese authorities are just trying to set the public against Uighurs?
I think the message will be very much that that there is a continuing problem of what the Chinese call separatism in Xinjiang that needs to be dealt with firmly and harshly and if such incidents can appear in the nation’s capital, then from the authorities point of view, that is a reason to justify their crackdown on so-called separatism in Xinjiang.
Not as serious threat in any sort of sense of seriously destabilizing China. But clearly there is strong feeling in Xinjiang about the way in which Uighurs feel about the way they’ve been treated by the central government.
Do you expect the conflict with Uighurs to escalate in the future?
I don’t think it will necessarily escalate but it will certainly continue. There have been instances over many years now of violent instances in Xinjiang of protests against Chinese rule in some way and nothing that has happened so far gives any sense that the Chinese authorities are dealing with this or reacting to this in such a way as to reduce the likelihood of future incidents.
Chinese authorities have captured the suspects in a fatal car crash on Beijing's Tiananmen Square, state media said Wednesday, describing the incident as a "terrorist attack" for the first time.
"The arrests were made 10 hours after the incident, which has now been identified as a terrorist attack", broadcaster CCTV said on its verified English-language microblog account.
A police spokesperson said the incident on Monday at Beijing's Tiananmen gate was a "planned, organized, premeditated, violent terrorist attack," the government's official Xinhua news agency reported.
CCTV said the three people in the car, all of whom died, were from the same family, and another five people had been arrested in connection with the case.
Police had alerted hotels in the capital to look out for eight suspects from China's restive Xinjiang region after the incident, which killed two tourists and injured dozens in the symbolic heart of the Chinese state.
The suspects appeared mostly to be from China's mainly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority, who are concentrated in far-western Xinjiang, and the names CCTV gave for the three people in the vehicle appeared to be Uighur.
Beijing has blamed Uighur groups for what it calls "terrorist" attacks in Xinjiang, but details of alleged incidents are hard to confirm, and exile groups accuse China of exaggerating the threat to justify religious and cultural restrictions.
In the incident on Monday, a sport utility vehicle drove along a stretch of pavement near the Forbidden City, a former imperial palace and popular tourist site next to Tiananmen Square, knocking over pedestrians before bursting into flames.
China suspects Tiananmen vehicle fire was suicide attack - sources
The Chinese government suspects that Monday's incident in which a vehicle ploughed into pedestrians in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, killing five including the three people in the vehicle, was a suicide attack, sources told Reuters news agency.
At least 38 people were injured in the incident, but there has been no official word whether it was an accident or an attack.
"It looks like a premeditated suicide attack," a source with direct knowledge of the matter said, speaking on condition of anonymity to avoid repercussions for talking to the foreign media.
While police are still investigating and have yet to determine the identities of the three people in the vehicle, according to the sources, Beijing police said late on Monday they were looking for two suspects from the restive far western region of Xinjiang in connection with a "major incident".
Five people died and a Philippine family was injured after a jeep crashed through barriers and burst into flames in front of Beijing's famous Tiananmen gate on Monday, the official Xinhua news agency said.
The news agency said one Philippine national and one Chinese tourist from the southern province of Guangdong had died. The three occupants of the vehicle also died.
The Southern Metropolitan Daily quoted a 23-year-old Philippine woman as saying that she, her younger sister and her parents were all injured by the vehicle.