2013-07~12
http://www.brecorder.com/pakistan/general-news/141303-shahabaz-arrives-xinjiang-to-explore-setting-up-solar-energy-plants.html

Business Recorder
KARACHI: Karachi Stock Exchange (KSE) 100 index closed higher on Tuesday having 32915.03 points with a negative change of -107.84 and volume of 70,587
BRUSSELS: Belgian firefighters said at least 21 people had died after "enormous" blasts hit Brussels airport and the city's metro system on Tuesda
LONDON: Britain's credit rating will be put under pressure by a marked slowdown in fiscal consolidation unveiled in last week's budget, rating
BRUSSELS: An explosion occurred Tuesday at a metro station in Brussels close to the European Union's institutions in the Belgian capital, injuring
FRANKFURT: German media and publishing giant Bertelsmann said Tuesday its b...
FRANKFURT: Deutsche Bank's finance chief said the first two months of 2...
JAKARTA: The Indonesian government set a 3.4 percent coupon for its $750 mi...
ST. PETERSBURG: Jurors on Monday awarded wrestling star Hulk Hogan a total ...
RIO DE JANEIRO: Brazilian politics looks a lot like a dark and twisted TV s...
WARSAW: Poland needs to move towards higher-technology production, improve ...
ISLAMABAD: The production of various petroleum products witnessed positive ...
ISLAMABAD: Korea Exim Bank has started work on a feasibility study for a ne...
KARACHI: State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) on Monday auctioned Pakistan Investme...
BANGALORE: Veteran fast bowler Ashish Nehra said India can't afford any...
JOHANNESBURG: New Morocco coach Herve Renard begins his quest for a record-...
MIAMI: Defending champion Rory McIlroy is determined to get back to winning...
Want to visit London to see the crown jewel at the Buckingham Palace, or if...
India is going gaga over Pakistani export Fawad Khan, the Pakistani actor h...
NEW YORK: For the first time, Pakistan will mark its National Day at the UN...
SHANGHAI: The Shanghai stock exchange has delisted investment firm Boyuan f...
MOSCOW: The Russian rouble weakened on Tuesday after news of explosions at ...
LONDON: Top-rated German bond yields fell near a two-week low on Tuesday as...
FRANKFURT: German media and publishing giant Bertelsmann said Tuesday its bottom-line profit doubled in 2015 as investment in digital media started to pay off. "2015 was a very good year for Bertelsmann," said chief executive Thomas Rabe."For the fir
FRANKFURT: Deutsche Bank's finance chief said the first two months of 2016 were the worst start to a year for banks in general that he has seen in his banking career. "That has left its marks on our business," Marcus Schenck told German daily Boe
JAKARTA: The Indonesian government set a 3.4 percent coupon for its $750 million global sukuk maturing in five years and a 4.55 percent coupon for a $1.75 billion global sukuk maturing in 10 years, a finance ministry official told reporters on Tuesda
ST. PETERSBURG: Jurors on Monday awarded wrestling star Hulk Hogan a total of $140 million -- $25 million more than he was granted last week over a sex tape posted by entertainment website Gawker.The 62-year-old Hogan, whose real name is Terry Bollea
RIO DE JANEIRO: Brazilian politics looks a lot like a dark and twisted TV series these days, complete with tales of betrayal, wire-tapped phone calls and a corruption scandal reaching into the highest halls of power.The twin political and economic cr
WARSAW: Poland needs to move towards higher-technology production, improve employment rates, education and curb temporary job contracts, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) said on Tuesday. In a report, the OECD said it
ISLAMABAD: The production of various petroleum products witnessed positive growth of 6.51 percent during the first seven months of the current fiscal year as compared to the corresponding period of last year.The petroleum products that contributed po
ISLAMABAD: Korea Exim Bank has started work on a feasibility study for a new Information Technology Park on Pakistan Software Export Board's (PSEB) land in Chak Shahzad and the loan agreement is expected to be signed by fall of 2016.According to
KARACHI: State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) on Monday auctioned Pakistan Investment Bonds (PIBs) of Rs 126.360 billion.The maturity period for these PIBs is 3,5,10 and 20 years. The coupon rate is 8.75 percent, 9.25 %, 9.75 % and 10.75 %, said SBP statemen
BANGALORE: Veteran fast bowler Ashish Nehra said India can't afford any slip-ups against Bangladesh on Wednesday if they are to avoid a humiliating early exit from the World Twenty20 on home soil.The hosts are precariously placed in fourth spot o
JOHANNESBURG: New Morocco coach Herve Renard begins his quest for a record-equalling third Cup of Nations title with back-to-back qualifiers against Cape Verde, the top-ranked African team.A seven-day, 50-match schedule starts Wednesday and the co-Gr
MIAMI: Defending champion Rory McIlroy is determined to get back to winning ways at the World Golf Championship Dell Match Play this week, his final tune-up event before next month's Masters in Augusta. The Northern Irishman has suffered fluctuat
Want to visit London to see the crown jewel at the Buckingham Palace, or if you are a fashionista visit the Oxford street. Whatever, your reason is the probability is you are going to have a lot of company that’s because London has become the world
India is going gaga over Pakistani export Fawad Khan, the Pakistani actor has been receiving praises for his latest Bollywood flick ‘Kapoor & Sons’. Bollywood critically acclaimed actress Richa Chadda has expressed her admiration towards Fawa
NEW YORK: For the first time, Pakistan will mark its National Day at the UN, with a concert in the prestigious General Assembly hall on March 23.Organized by the Pakistan Mission to the UN, the concert will feature Ustad Rahat Fateh Ali Khan.The conc
SHANGHAI: The Shanghai stock exchange has delisted investment firm Boyuan for providing false information, a statement said, the first time a listed company has been removed under new disclosure rules.The Shanghai exchange on Monday approved the deli
MOSCOW: The Russian rouble weakened on Tuesday after news of explosions at Brussels airport and a metro station, reversing gains seen at opening. At 0842 GMT, the rouble was 0.4 percent weaker against the dollar at 68.10, weakening swiftly in reactio
LONDON: Top-rated German bond yields fell near a two-week low on Tuesday as explosions in Brussels spurred demand for safe haven assets amid fears the incident could be the latest in a number of militant attacks in Europe. The European benchmark yiel