2013-07~12
http://www.theage.com.au/world/chinese-media-demands-harsh-punishment-for-terrorist-attack-20131031-2wlx6.html

Chinese media demands harsh punishment for 'terrorist attack'
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News, My Clippings, My Comments and user settings.
Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.

 Tight security: Armed police stand guard at Tiananamen Square in Beijing. Photo: AFP

Chinese state media has demanded severe punishment for the five suspects arrested in connection with the car blaze at Tiananmen Square, branded a terrorist attack by the government, while rights groups for the country's Uyghur ethnic minority called for an independent investigation.
The five suspects arrested, as well as the driver and two passengers who died in the blaze, were all identified with names that suggested they were Uyghurs, a predominantly Muslim ethnic minority from China's restive far-western province of Xinjiang.
The Communist Party's official People's Daily said the attack was a crime against humanity and that violent terrorism was the "shared enemy of all ethnic groups in the country, and it must be severely punished under the law". The English-language China Daily said the perpetrators will ''go down in history as murderers, not heroes''.
Security has been tightened in Beijing and Xinjiang, and armed police are reportedly preventing reporters from entering the town of Lukqun, the home of one of the detained suspects.
Abdul Bayer, of Pishan County, told Fairfax Media he knew one of the arrested suspects, Yusup Umarniyaz. He said he was a friend of Mr Umarniyaz's father, who grew red beans as a farmer and member of the Xinjiang Construction Corps.
He said most in his village were not aware of Monday's Tiananmen Square attack and that Uyghurs were a peace-loving people.
"A lot of Uyghurs will hate them if they really did what is alleged - even his parents and friends," Mr Bayer said.
The exiled Uyghur leader Rebiya Kadeer, regarded as a dangerous "anti-Chinese splitist" by Beijing, said the strict control of information by authorities made it difficult to know the truth.
''If the Uyghurs did it, I believe they did it out of desperation because there is no channel for the Uyghur people to seek redress for any kind of injustice they had suffered under Chinese rule,'' she told Reuters.
Police said the driver of the attack vehicle, Usmen Hasan, and two passengers, his mother and his wife, set themselves and the car alight, killing all three on the spot.
Two pedestrians, a Filipina and a Chinese man, died of their injuries, and at least 40 people have been reported injured, 12 seriously.
Knives and ''jihad'' flags were allegedly found on the five arrested suspects, said to have been surprised at being caught so quickly.
Xinjiang has been plagued by clashes between Uyghurs and the Han majority in recent years. The most recent riots, in June, reportedly resulted in 35 deaths.

 Compare variable rates as low as 3.99% p.a. now

 All Galaxy S7 plans from all major telcos available now

 Grab a bargain on one of the year's best phones