2013-07~12
http://europe.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2013-07/01/content_16700955.htm

China vows to continue fight against terrorism|Politics|chinadaily.com.cn
BEIJING - A foreign ministry spokeswoman said Monday that China is firmly opposed to secessionism and terrorism and will work with other countries to step up cooperation in cracking down on terrorist organizations.
Speaking in a routine press conference, spokeswoman Hua Chunying said the Chinese government is confident in protecting the lives and property of people of all ethnics, ensuring long-lasting peace and stability in Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region and creating favorable conditions for the development of the region.
She said the recent violent incidents that have occurred in Xinjiang represent a series of violent and terrorist attacks.
Hua noted that the so-called "East Turkistan" forces represent "three evil forces" of terrorism, separatism and extremism that have resulted in multiple terrorist attacks in Xinjiang in recent years, incurring large civilian casualties and threatening national security.
The "East Turkistan" secessionism and terrorism forces are linked to other international terrorist organizations, which have posed threats not only to China, but to the peace and stability of other countries in the region, she said.
"We hope all sides will clearly recognize the essence of the violent activities and support China's stance, as well as the measures it has taken to ensure the safety of people and their property," she said.
Hua stressed that as Xinjiang-related issues concern China's sovereignty and territorial integrity and its core interests, the Chinese government will take necessary measures to punish the criminals by law and safeguard solidarity and stability in Xinjiang.
Hua said the ethnic policies carried out by the Chinese central government in Xinjiang suit the local situation and are supported by the people there.
"Attempts by a small group of people to subvert solidarity and security in Xinjiang will never prevail and are doomed to fail," Hua stressed.
Twenty-four people were killed last Wednesday by rioters in an attack that occurred in Lukqun township in Xinjiang's Shanshan county. The rioters attacked the township's police stations, a local government building and a construction site, and set fire to police cars. Twenty-one police officers and civilians were injured.