2013-07~12
http://www.thonline.com/news/national_world/article_878a7eb9-e6cc-5264-9d85-4b1920c84afa.html

Police focus on Uighurs after Tiananmen car attack - THonline.com: National/World

Police focus on Uighurs after Tiananmen car attack
Associated Press |
 
 
 

BEIJING -- Chinese police were seeking information on two ethnic Uighur suspects believed linked to an apparent suicide car attack near Tiananmen Square in the country's capital that killed five people and injured 38.
Police released no word about a possible motive for Monday's incident at Beijing's Forbidden City, one of China's most politically sensitive and heavily guarded public spaces. But investigators sent a notice to hotels in the city aimed at tracing the movements of two suspects, and possibly at uncovering any other conspirators.
It was unclear whether the two Uighurs were believed to have perished in the car or are still at large, and whether they may have been linked to militant groups in the western region of Xinjiang, where radicals have been fighting a low-intensity insurgency against Chinese rule for years.
If Monday's incident was such an attack, it would be the first in recent history outside of Xinjiang, and the boldest and most ambitious given the high-profile target.
The overseas advocacy group World Uyghur Congress on Tuesday urged caution and expressed concerns that Beijing could use the crash to demonize the ethnic Uighurs.
© 2016 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

 Posted in
 National/World,
 News
 
 on
 
 Wednesday, October 30, 2013 12:00 am.
 
 
 | Tags: 
 

East Turkestan Independence Movement,
 


Islam In China,
 


Xinjiang,
 


Uyghur People,
 


Beijing,
 


Asia,
 


Geography Of China


Do you think a "suicidal deer" road sign is insensitive?
A new deer crossing warning sign in Iowa cautions drivers about "suicidal deer."
Telegraph Herald
Phone number: 563-588-5611
E-mail: thonline@wcinet.com
Address: 801 Bluff St PO Box 688
 Dubuque, IA 52004
Submit a Letter to the Editor
Submit an Obituary

TH Media’s mission is to be the preferred provider of local news, information and advertising content in the markets we serve.

© Copyright 2016, THonline.com, Dubuque, IA. Powered by BLOX Content Management System from TownNews.com. [Terms of Use | Privacy Policy]
