2013-07~12
http://freepressjournal.in/win-win-for-both-sides/

Win-win for both sides | Freepress Journal
If their FDI can fuel India’s growth, it could also offset the slowdown of China’s manufacturing and export-led economy 
“If you can’t beat ’em, join ’em” is an old maxim that Kautilya probably also uttered. Its contemporary relevance lies in the advice that instead of trying to confront China through alliances with the US and Japan, India should give China a stake in its own political stability and economic growth.
In a sense, that is what India’s ambassador in Beijing, S Jaishankar, has been trying to do since February, when, aware of China’s appetite for investing abroad (Beijing is the world’s sixth largest source of FDI), he organised a meeting to sell the idea of FDI for India, to increase the share of manufacturing in the economy from 16 per cent to 25 per cent by 2022. The move received strong support from Zhang Xiaoqiang, vice-chairman of the National Development and Reforms Commission (NDRC) of China, the nodal body of Chinese investment. He applauded Jaishankar’s comment, “Investments could also help address the trade imbalance created by market access challenges.”
Bilateral trade fell last year to $66.47 billion from $73.9 billion in 2011, when China became India’s biggest trade partner, if services are excluded. Jaishankar has assured China that India would address all procedural obstacles that obstruct trade and attainment of the $100 billion target by 2015, that was agreed upon in 2010.
But not everyone in India is happy with the present direction of Sino-Indian relations. To begin with, the eventually successful Chinese formula to place the border dispute on the back burner while developing economic ties seemed like playing into China’s hands by betraying the unanimous all party parliamentary motion on recovering lost land. When trade burgeoned, the export of raw materials and import of finished goods – even of Hindu gods and goddesses – revived memories of colonial barter. The heavy imbalance in China’s favour aggravated resentment.
Chinese investment, even in fields where India badly needs capital and expertise, arouses suspicion. Chinese personnel in India are regarded as intelligence gatherers. It’s a perpetual wonder that three or four Indian journalists in China report far more on that country than the dozen Chinese correspondents in New Delhi do on India. Directly or indirectly, Chinese companies like Huawei (which made a presentation at the February forum), are seen as linked to the People’s Liberation Army and, therefore, a security risk. Even those who favour closer economic ties stress that the rationale that makes China the biggest investor in Africa, where it is seen as grabbing vast natural resources and exerting economic and political influence, must change. In India, China must be demonstrably a partner in processes that give a visible spurt to growth.
An appraisal of China’s own current problems might help. Instead of the double-digit growth of recent years, China is now aiming at a more sustainable GDP growth of between seven and eight per cent. China needs energy resources and feels it faces adverse competition in its search for fuel in the South China Sea and Sea of Japan.
The separatist Baluch Liberation Army (BLA), which claimed responsibility for the suicide attack on a bus filled with students that left two dozen dead in Quetta, threatens China’s latest agreements with Nawaz Sharif’s government to upgrade 600 kilometres of the Karakoram highway built in 1986 and finance a railway to link Gwadar port and Xinjiang, where separatist Muslim Uighurs are active. Reports indicate that rebel Uighurs are in league with Turkey’s East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM).
Though Pakistan predictably blames the Baluchistan troubles on India, the BLA, which has been involved in attacks on oil fields and gas pipelines, is suspected of acting with the Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, which has Taliban connections. Baluch and Uighur militants can also jeopardise China’s plans to import gas from Iran by joining the Iran-Pakistan gas pipeline that will pass through Gilgit. Energy is especially important because rising wages are eroding China’s cost advantage in manufacturing for the world.
China’s National Bureau of Statistics records that the average minimum monthly wage in Shanghai and Beijing increased 15 per cent in 2011, to around US$200. In some coastal provinces – where the economy is focussed – salaries jumped 20 per cent in 2011. Salaries overall are also rising steadily. The average rise in 2012 was 9.1 per cent, which explains why international manufacturers like the Crystal Group – apparel suppliers for fashionable Western brands like Gap and Marks & Spencer – only marginally increased their Chinese staff while more than tripling the workforce in Vietnam, which offers more attractive cost advantages. Rising labour prices, along with other adverse factors, have combined to drive down China’s official manufacturing index, so that China is on the brink of no longer being the world’s workshop.
If Chinese FDI can fuel India’s growth, it could also offset this slowdown of China’s manufacturing and export-led economy.
India must decide whether it wants to complement this growth story or fight a losing battle trying to oppose it. What has to be remembered in coming to a decision is that, as Professor Paul Kennedy relates, with almost the same population, China has achieved a GDP based on industrial production that is almost three times India’s. The gap is widening. When European traders landed in the subcontinent, undivided India’s share in world manufacturing was 24.5 per cent. That was in 1750. By the time the British left, the sub-continent’s share had fallen to 1.7 per cent. China’s share fell in those decades from 32.8 per cent to 6.1 per cent, while Britain’s soared from 1.9 per cent in 1750 to 22.9 per cent in 1880.
Zhang’s optimistic comments and the publication of “The Complete Guide to Investing in India” (a sector-wise investment guide, specifically targeted to Chinese companies that attended the February forum) in Chinese, with information on crucial sectors like infrastructure, automobiles, hospitality, power and energy and the relevant rules and regulations applying to each sector, might indicate that the decision has already been taken.
That is not so. It has to be a political decision. Arvind Jayaram, the respected economic affairs secretary, may have recommended raising the cap on FDI, but it was Manmohan Singh’s decision to announce and implement it. Similarly, he alone can decide how much the Chinese will be allowed to invest in India. Presumably, the decision will be taken in the light of his own statement at the start of his career as finance minister, “We need to show the same pragmatism as China to drive the Indian economy.” But it will have to carry the full weight of the prime minister’s prestige and authority. He alone can make Indians see Chinese FDI as a vote of confidence in the country’s future prosperity and make Beijing a guarantor of – instead of a threat to — India’s security. Economics is too important to be left to the economists. It needs an economist who is also a politician.

Next Article »
Indian Council of Investors files PIL against NSEL 



 
 
 
 Unless there is some hidden design behind it, the two-day deliberations of the BJP’s national executive meeting underlined a twin-track… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 Maybe it’s a problem of existing in our own ‘safety zones’—used these days as a synonym for ideological bubble. Maybe… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 If some medicines are found ‘harmful’ or even useless to consumers, the government or the apex drug regulator is within… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 Dr. Sanjay Deshmukh, vice chancellor of Mumbai University, speaks of the many paradigm shifts that are now needed. Shraddha Kamdar… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 A couple of years ago, we had published an article that essentially reproducted an email sent to us by valued… 

 Read more…  


Copyright © 2016 . All Rights Reserved. Maintained by Designwell Infotech