2013-07~12
http://www.politico.com/blogs/under-the-radar/2013/12/last-uighurs-leave-guantanamo-180369.html

Last 3 Uighurs leave Guantánamo - POLITICO
Hillary Clinton's campaign early Tuesday morning pushed back against reports that former President Bill Clinton called President Barack Obama's policies...
The Ohio governor’s increase in support among Republicans and Republican-leaning voters is the largest gain of any GOP presidential candidate.
Their new ad quotes him as talking about expanding Republican ranks.
The most decisive phase of the election has passed; and it’s not looking good for the GOP.
He has a rare chance to speak to a closed nation, but regime change isn't on the agenda.
Two of the three states voting Tuesday are in Bernie Sanders' wheelhouse. Arizona is looking a lot tougher.
Cruz and Kasich are working at cross-purposes, setting Trump up to win most of Tuesday's delegates despite big trouble in Utah.
The British prime minister says Turkish membership in the European Union is "not remotely in prospect."
Belgium and France are full of praise for each other, but the peace won’t last.
Not all the demonstrators were fond of AIPAC, but they were unified in their disdain for Trump.
Utah Sen. Mike Lee sought to arrange a shotgun wedding of his two Senate colleagues, but Rubio wasn't interested.
In a historic news conference, Obama not only allowed Castro to be pressed on political prisoners. He joined in himself.
The Justice Department may not need Apple's help any longer.
Clinton leads the Democratic field with 51 percent but Sanders is hot on her heels at 44 percent.
He mocks Trump as not a true friend of Israel.
Republicans can't figure out the mogul's quirky mix of advisers.
The unfavorable ratings are the highest in the history of the poll asking the question, dating back to 1984.
"I didn’t come here tonight to pander to you about Israel."
Three ridiculous stunts I'm refusing to cover, and why you should ignore them too.
Bernie Sanders has won a primary of American expatriates whom Democrats invite to participate in the party's presidential nominating process.
The network cut away from the press conference entirely at one point.
It's gotten so small-ball that one congressman introduced a bill to recognize the significance of magic.
Clinton launched her most pointed attack yet on the Republican front-runner.
Trump called Warren "the Indian," recalling her past claims of Native American heritage.
Join POLITICO’s Pro Health Care team for a conversation on the U.S. opioid crisis. With the recent release of the CDC’s voluntary prescribing guideline,...
"We are really gratified with the results," Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates told reporters Monday. "We are bringing fewer but more impactful...
"There are profound differences between our countries that will not go away," Castro says.
The last ethnic Uighur Chinese prisoners were released from Guantánamo Bay and sent to Slovakia in recent days, ending a chapter in the Guantánamo saga that proved far more difficult than the Obama White House initially anticipated.
The three men just transferred, Yusef Abbas, Saidullah Khalik and Hajiakbar Abdul Ghuper, were ordered released by a federal court in 2008 — during the waning days of the Bush administration.
However, their release languished for years after an Obama administration plan to bring at least two of the Uighurs to the U.S. went off the rails in 2009. The failure of that project — personally overseen by then-White House Counsel Greg Craig — resulted not only in an end to the plan to bring those men to Virginia, but also played a large role in provoking a congressional effort that blocked President Barack Obama's broader attempt to close the island prison.
The Uighurs — 22 of whom were detained at Guantánamo after being picked up in Afghanistan — hail from China's largely Muslim Xinjiang province. China considers them Chinese citizens and, in many cases, criminals or terrorists as a result of their involvement with separatist movements that favor independence for the region. China wanted the men back, but because of U.S. concerns about China's legal system, they could not be returned to China. As a result, the U.S. wound up scattering the men to six other countries, some of which received financial assistance for taking the prisoners.
The fate of the Uighurs also became a symbol of the impotence of U.S. courts in resolving the cases of men at Guantánamo. After a judge ordered 17 of the Uighurs released in 2008, subsequent court rulings effectively denied judges the authority to force transfer of prisoners from Guantánamo to the U.S. or abroad.
The Pentagon on Tuesday hailed the latest transfer as a major step toward Obama's goal of closing the island prison.
"This transfer and resettlement constitutes a significant milestone in our effort to close the detention facility at Guantánamo Bay," Pentagon press secretary Rear Adm. John Kirby said in a statement.
"The United States is very grateful to Slovakia for its cooperation on a wide range of issues, and we deeply appreciate Slovakia’s humanitarian assistance in accepting these three individuals from Guantánamo who were in need of resettlement," State Department Guantánamo Closure Envoy Cliff Sloan said in a statement. "The United States and Slovakia have a strong and close relationship. We have worked together on humanitarian migration issues for many years, and this important humanitarian action reflects Slovakia's sustained assistance, which, on the issue of Guantánamo, began in 2009."
A total of 155 prisoners remain at Guantánamo, according to the Pentagon.