2013-07~12
http://www.presstv.ir/detail/2013/12/30/342717/china-forces-kill-xinjiang-attackers/

PressTV


 Two bomb explosions rock Brussels Airport while another blast hits a metro station in the city, reportedly killing 28 people in total.
 



 Amnesty International calls on the US and UK to stop the transfer of weapons to the Saudi regime amid its war on Yemen.
 



 Four cargo ships involved in trade with North Korea can resume operations after being cleared from a UN blacklist.
 



 US Marines should leave Iraq before being treated as a 'force of occupation,' an Iraqi volunteer force warns.
 



 A leaked Clinton email reveals that Google offered to help the US overthrow the Syrian government using a mapping tool.
 



 Iran hosts annual Nowruz celebrations at the UN headquarters in New York.
 



 Greece has started detaining hundreds of refugees who arrive on its territories following the recent EU-turkey deal.
 



 President Assad salutes the injured soldiers engaged in the battle against terrorists in Syria.
 



 China says it is concerned over Washington's increased militarization of the South China Sea region.
 



 US Democratic presidential hopeful Bernie Sanders slams Israel’s treatment of Palestinians after skipping the AIPAC conference.
 



 Donald Trump’s harsh campaign language against Mexican immigrants has mobilized many Latinos to naturalize in time to vote in November.
 



 IHRC has referred the Nigerian Army to the International Criminal Court for massacring hundereds of Muslims in the northern city of Zaria last year. 
 



 United Nations member states that celebrate the Persian New Year have gathered at the UN headquarters in New York for the International Day of Nowruz. 
 



 Panic grips Turkey in the aftermath of two devastating terrorist attacks within six days.
 



 A documentary claiming to expose Saudi regime brutality against its people is to be aired.
 



 GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump has finally unveiled the list of his foreign policy and national security advisers.
 



 Hillary Clinton said in a speech to AIPAC that Iran still posed a threat to Israel and needed to be closely watched.
 



 An American political analyst says much of what we are seeing in the US is reminiscent of Germany in the 1930’s.
 



 An American writer says the hypocritical United States sees genocide in others' actions, not its own.

 



 Turkish tourism industry is set to lose billions of dollars in revenues this years, says report.

 



 The Earth Hour sees non-essential lights shut off every year in a symbolic move to raise awareness about climate change.
 



 US President Barack Obama says Washington recognizes Iran’s “right to peaceful nuclear energy” in his Nowruz message.
 



 A decision by the Asian Football Confederation for teams from Iran and Saudi Arabia to play in a third country is “politicized,” an Iranian official says.
 



 Racism is a universal problem in our modern world, found in various parts of the world and in different societies, although in different forms and to varying degrees.
 



 New concerns are emerging over the global consequences of the election of Trump to power, with experts are warning that the international economy will suffer should the front runner Republican nominee become the next US president. 
 



 This edition of "The Debate" is about Washington and Moscow's approach towards the ongoing ceasefire in Syria. 
 



 This program is about the devastating impact of war on the Syrian economy.
 



 Nowruz is the traditional Iranian festival of spring which starts at the exact astronomical start of the spring.
 



 This edition of The Debate is about the US antagonistic policies toward Iran. 
 
