2013-07~12
http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/news/kyodo-news-international/130710/chinese-activist-chen-meets-leader-tiananmen-square-pr

Chinese activist Chen meets leader of Tiananmen Square protests | GlobalPost
Exiled Chinese human rights advocate Chen Guangcheng met Wednesday in Taiwan with Wuer Kaixi, a student leader of the 1989 Tiananmen Square democracy movement who escaped to the island from mainland China.
In their public meeting, Chen said he is confident China's authoritarian regime will one day collapse.
He said Taiwan's success story of democratization disproves Chinese dictators' claim that democracy, freedom and rule of law are Western values.
"There is no such thing as Western values or Eastern values. The only difference is that Western countries practiced democracy earlier than Eastern countries did," he said.
Wuer, a leader of the 1989 democracy protests in Tiananmen Square, said Taiwan's achievement of human rights is remarkable, but there is always room for improvement.
Taking the example of President Ma Ying-jeou's decision not to meet Chen during his visit, Wuer said human rights should transcend politics, but "it is regretful that it is not the case in Taiwan."
The Presidential Office said Ma welcomes Chen's visit but decided not to meet him.
Parliamentary Speaker Wang Jin-pyng, who originally planned to meet Chen last week, also canceled the meeting at the last minute, citing time constraints.
Wuer said the Ma administration also rejected the visa application of World Uyghur Congress President Rebiya Kadeer, who has been branded a terrorist by the Chinese government.
"I would like to know why President Ma, who has taken pride in building Taiwan into a human rights-oriented nation, has such double standards," he said. "It is unwise for a politician to let politics get in the way of protecting human rights."
The Ma administration banned Kadeer from visiting Taiwan in 2009, saying her organization has close links to the militant East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a charge she flatly denies.
Seeking to downplay Ma's decision not to see him, Chen said his attitude has been to "let nature take its course."
Chen, who arrived in Taiwan on June 23 and is to return to the United States on July 11, spoke at Taiwan's legislature and universities, visited nongovernmental organizations as well as politicians and launched a book during his visit.
The self-taught lawyer was jailed in China between 2006 and 2010 for helping people forced to have abortions or sterilizations and was subsequently detained at his home in northern China's Shandong Province for 18 months.
The blind activist managed to escape in April last year and took refuge in the U.S. Embassy in Beijing. Following days of negotiations, Beijing agreed to let Chen and his family leave China.