2013-07~12
http://www.thesundayleader.lk/2013/11/03/china-plea-paper-to-be-overhauled/

China Plea Paper ‘To Be Overhauled’ | The Sunday Leader
A Chinese newspaper that made a front-page appeal for the release of a reporter accused of defamation is to be overhauled, a press regulator says.
The Guangzhou-based New Express made a rare public plea for the release of journalist Chen Yongzhou.
But Mr Chen subsequently admitted on television that he had taken bribes to fabricate stories about a part state-owned company.
Now the New Express is to undergo “full rectification”, the regulator said.
The “rectification” order came from the Guangdong Administration of Press and Publication, Radio, Film and Television.
“A preliminary investigation showed that Yangcheng Evening News Group’s New Express had published several untrue reports about listed company Zoomlion in the period of September 2012 to August 2013. New Express’s editorial management was disordered,” the regulator said in a statement.
It said it had decided to “impose an administrative penalty on Chen Yongzhou by revoking his reporter’s license”.
It had also “instructed Yangcheng Evening News Group to undertake a complete rectification of New Express, and recommended they investigate the relevant responsible persons at New Express and immediately revise New Express’s leadership team.”
Mr Chen wrote several articles for the New Express alleging financial irregularities at a construction-equipment company called Zoomlion. The company denied the allegations.
After he was detained, his newspaper published two front-page appeals for his release, saying it backed his journalism.
But Mr Chen then appeared on state television admitting he had published false stories for money.
“In this case I’ve caused damages to Zoomlion and also the whole news media industry and its ability to earn the public’s trust,” he told state broadcaster CCTV. “I did this mainly because I hankered after money and fame. I’ve been used. I’ve realised my wrongdoing.” Following Mr Chen’s apology, New Express issued a front-page apology, saying it had failed to properly check his repor
Courtesy: BBC
Hundreds of people fleeing the civil war in Syria are being turned back at the border with Jordan and neighbouring countries, says Amnesty International.
Those being denied entry include Palestinian and Iraqi refugees who have been living in Syria, and those without identity documents, its report says.
Amnesty says the situation is “unacceptable”.
However, the Jordanian authorities maintain that they have kept their borders open for Syrian refugees.
Jordanian government spokesman Dr Mohammed al-Momani told the BBC that there was “no change of Jordan’s position regarding refugees”.
“Refugees that reach our borders are allowed in, in accordance with international law and Jordan’s historical position of providing safety to those who seek it,” he said.
More than two million refugees have now fled Syria resulting in a humanitarian crisis.
Most have found refuge in Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey, Iraq and Egypt.
The BBC’s Yolande Knell says the research highlights how fighting combined with Jordanian restrictions have indefinitely trapped thousands of displaced Syrians in the border area.
“People fleeing Syria to Jordan and other countries in the region are being hampered by tightening border restrictions. Many of them have already lost everything,” said Philip Luther, AI’s Middle East and North Africa director.
Those being turned away also include unaccompanied men with no demonstrable family ties in Jordan, AI says.
Amnesty says that in the past year, dozens of refugees allowed into Jordan have also been deported to Syria.
In August 2012, it says some 200 refugees were forcibly returned to Syria after protests broke out at the Zaatari refugee camp.
AI says it has obtained information which indicates that scores of other individuals have since been sent back to Syria.
The human rights group is calling for refugees to be able to cross borders freely – but says more international support is needed to help Syria’s neighbours deal with the continuing influx.
The UN’s $4.4bn (£2.7bn) appeal for Syrian refugees is only 50% funded, and there has been little response to appeals for Western states to resettle Syrians.
Unrest in Syria began in March 2011, developing into a conflict in which more than 100,000 people are estimated to have been killed.
Courtesy: BBC
Israeli aircraft have carried out a strike near the Syrian coastal city of Latakia, a US official says.
The official said the strike targeted Russian-made missiles intended for the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah.
Latakia is a stronghold of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, where his Alawite community is concentrated.
This is believed to be sixth Israeli attack in Syria this year. Israel does not comment on specific operations.
Israeli officials have repeatedly said it would act if it felt Syrian weapons, conventional or chemical, were being transferred to militant groups in the region, especially Hezbollah. Reports of the strike came as the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) said all Syria’s declared equipment for making chemical weapons had been destroyed, one day before a deadline. Action by the OPCW was agreed following allegations, denied by the Syrian government, that its forces had used chemical weapons in civilian areas – and after the US and France threatened military intervention.
A Chinese newspaper that made a front-page appeal for the release of a reporter accused of defamation is to be overhauled, a press regulator says.
The Guangzhou-based New Express made a rare public plea for the release of journalist Chen Yongzhou.
But Mr Chen subsequently admitted on television that he had taken bribes to fabricate stories about a part state-owned company.
Now the New Express is to undergo “full rectification”, the regulator said.
The “rectification” order came from the Guangdong Administration of Press and Publication, Radio, Film and Television.
“A preliminary investigation showed that Yangcheng Evening News Group’s New Express had published several untrue reports about listed company Zoomlion in the period of September 2012 to August 2013. New Express’s editorial management was disordered,” the regulator said in a statement.
It said it had decided to “impose an administrative penalty on Chen Yongzhou by revoking his reporter’s license”.
It had also “instructed Yangcheng Evening News Group to undertake a complete rectification of New Express, and recommended they investigate the relevant responsible persons at New Express and immediately revise New Express’s leadership team.”
Mr Chen wrote several articles for the New Express alleging financial irregularities at a construction-equipment company called Zoomlion. The company denied the allegations.
After he was detained, his newspaper published two front-page appeals for his release, saying it backed his journalism.
But Mr Chen then appeared on state television admitting he had published false stories for money.
“In this case I’ve caused damages to Zoomlion and also the whole news media industry and its ability to earn the public’s trust,” he told state broadcaster CCTV. “I did this mainly because I hankered after money and fame. I’ve been used. I’ve realised my wrongdoing.” Following Mr Chen’s apology, New Express issued a front-page apology, saying it had failed to properly check his repor
Courtesy: BBC
Germany has become Europe’s first country to allow babies with characteristics of both sexes to be registered as neither male nor female.Parents are now allowed to leave the gender blank on birth certificates, in effect creating a new category of “indeterminate sex”.The move is aimed at removing pressure on parents to make quick decisions on sex assignment surgery for newborns.As many as one in 2,000 people have characteristics of both sexes. ‘Bruised and scarred’They are known as “intersex” people because they have a mixture of male and female chromosomes or even genitalia which have characteristics of both genders.
The intense difficulty for parents is often that a gender has to be chosen very quickly so that the new child can be registered with the authorities, the BBC’s Steve Evans in Berlin reports. Sometimes surgery is done on the baby to turn its physical characteristics as far as possible in one direction or the other, our correspondent says.
The law in Germany has been following a review of cases which revealed great unhappiness.In one case, a person with no clear gender-defining genitalia was subjected to surgery. The person said many years later: “I am neither a man nor a woman. I will remain the patchwork created by doctors, bruised and scarred.” German passports, which currently list the holder’s sex as M for male or F for female, will have a third designation, X, for intersex holders, according to the interior ministry. It remains unclear what impact the change will have on marriage and partnership laws in Germany.
Courtesy: BBC
A US official said the Israeli strike took place overnight from Wednesday into Thursday.
Reports circulated on Thursday of explosions near Latakia, but the cause was not clear.
“Several explosions were heard in an air defence base in the Snubar Jableh area,” said the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a UK-based activist network.
Neither Israel nor Syria have commented on the reports. Earlier this year, Mr Assad had promised to respond to any future strikes by Israel.
One unnamed US official told the Associated Press that the missiles targeted by Israel were Russian-made SA-125s.
The BBC’s Jim Muir in Beirut says the reports come at a delicate moment, with the Russians – who apparently made the weapons that Israel is said to have targeted – working closely with the US to get a peace conference on Syria off the ground.
Russia has been a key backer of President Assad’s, continuing to supply his government with weapons during the conflict in Syria.
The UN Joint Special Representative for Syria, Lakhdar Brahimi, has told the BBC he believes progress was “certainly being made” on preparations for an international peace conference in Switzerland – widely referred to as Geneva 2.
But he said it was not certain if it was enough for the conference to take place, as planned, on 23 November. He said he hoped to announce a date soon.
Speaking in Damascus, at the end of his first visit to the capital since December, he said “people are realising more and more there is no military solution and don’t see any way of getting out of this horrible situation except through Geneva”.
On Thursday, the OPCW said in a statement that its teams had inspected 21 of the 23 chemical weapons sites in Syria.
It said two sites were too dangerous to visit, but equipment from those sites had already been moved to places where it could be inspected.
Syria’s Deputy Foreign Minister Faisal Mekdad told the BBC that his government was co-operating, and was making a contribution to freeing the Middle East of weapons of mass destruction.
“I hope those who have always thought of us negatively will change their minds and understand that Syria was, is, and will be always a constructive partner,” Mr Mekdad said.
Syria’s next deadline is mid-November, by which time the OPCW and the Syrians must agree a detailed plan to destroy the country’s chemical weapons stockpile.
Syria has until mid-2014 to destroy the chemical weapons themselves.
Syria’s arsenal is believed to include more than 1,000 tonnes of the nerve gas sarin, the blister agent sulphur mustard and other banned chemicals, stored at dozens of sites.
The uprising against Mr Assad began in 2011. More than 100,000 people have been killed and more than two million people have fled the country, according to the UN.
China’s top security official says a deadly crash in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square was incited by the East Turkestan Islamic Movement.
The crash occurred on Monday when a car ploughed into a crowd then burst into flames, killing three people inside the vehicle and two tourists.
Police have arrested five suspects, all from the western region of Xinjiang, home to minority Uighur Muslims.
Security has also been tightened in Xinjiang, which borders Central Asia.
China often blames the ETIM group for incidents in Xinjiang. But the BBC correspondent in Beijing says few believe that the group has any capacity to carry out any serious acts of terror in China.
Uighur groups claim China uses ETIM as an excuse to justify repressive security in Xinjiang.
“This violent terrorist incident that’s happened in Beijing was organised and premeditated,” China’s top security official, Meng Jianzhu, said during a visit to Uzbekistan. “The group that stood behind the scenes inciting it was the East Turkestan Islamic Movement,” he said.
“We must seek to further strengthen international anti-terror co-operation… in order to create a strong deterrent and further safeguard peace and stability in our region.”More than 40 people were injured in Monday’s crash. Police identified the driver of the vehicle as as a man called Usmen Hasan, who they said was accompanied by his wife and mother. The vehicle had a Xinjiang number plate and was carrying knives, iron rods, and a flag with religious slogans, they said. Following the incident, police in Xinjiang said security levels there were raised and that security services were visiting “sensitive religious families”. The region has seen frequent ethnic tensions between Uighurs and ethnic Han Chinese.