2013-07~12
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/10414264/China-captures-five-suspects-over-Tiananmen-Square-terror-attack.html

China captures five suspects over Tiananmen Square 'terror attack' - Telegraph
The explosion of a car in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square on Monday that killed five people and injured nearly 40 was a “hideous” “terrorist attack” perpetrated by a mother and son team of religious extremists, the Chinese government has claimed.
After over 48 hours of almost complete official silence, Beijing announced on Wednesday evening that it had detained five suspects in connection with the lunchtime “attack” which saw a jeep slam into tourists and police in the iconic and highly sensitive square.
A police spokesperson also named one of the jeep’s occupants as Usmen Hasan and said that the man’s mother and wife had been in the car. At around noon on Monday the three had deliberately ploughed into crowds in Tiananmen Square before using gasoline to set the vehicle on fire, the spokesperson added.
China’s official news agency Xinhua said police described the attack as “carefully planned, organized and premeditated.”
“Police found gasoline, equipment full of gasoline, two knives and steel sticks as well as a flag with extremist religious content in the jeep,” Xinhua said.
A police raid on a “temporary residence” being used by the five suspects in an undisclosed location had turned up “knives and at least one ‘jihad’ flag.”
A commentary aired by the CCTV television channel shortly after the announcement said: “This violent terrorist attack has caused casualties among innocent people. It has revealed once again the hideous face and the ferocious nature of these criminals.”
CCTV blamed the attack on “violent terrorists, separatists and religious extremists.”
“We firmly believe that the Party and the government have the ability and the strength to strike and defeat all violent terrorist activities, to maintain the safety of people's lives and belongings, the stability and harmony of society and the common interests of people in all ethnic groups across the country.”
Beijing police said the suspects had been captured within 10 hours of the incident and drew a clear link to the restive province of Xinjiang, in China’s extreme northwest.
Xinjiang’s 22 million population is almost half made up of Uighurs, a largely Muslim, Turkic-speaking group who widely resent the growing influx of Han Chinese immigrants and government restrictions on religious and cultural practices.
Beijing often portrays the sprawling desert region as a hotbed of religious extremism and separatism where violent groups are agitating for the creation of an independent East Turkestan.
However, rights activists accuse Beijing of exaggerating the threat in order to justify repressive policies in the region. They believe much of the violence is a spontaneous reaction on the part of some Uighurs to government repression and exclusion.
The apparent connection to Xinjiang, which has already been the setting for a sequence of bloody clashes between Han Chinese and Uighurs this year, is likely to further inflame an already tense situation on the ground.
Media reports suggested at least one of the police’s suspects hailed from Xinjiang’s Shanshan County, near the oasis city of Turpan where at least 35 people were killed in June during clashes.
During a visit to the region around Turpan and Shanshan last month, The Telegraph was trailed for two full days by three cars carrying undercover security agents.
Black-clad police special forces, many of them carrying automatic weapons, could be seen manning roadblocks and mobile command centres all along the G30 motorway which runs east to west through the desert.
In Urumqi, Xinjiang’s capital, heightened tensions were also on full show. The entrance to one of the city’s biggest mosques, the Erdaoqiao, was hemmed in by two heavily-manned military blockades, with worshippers forced to come and go under the watch of uniformed soldiers carrying riot shields and batons.
On Tuesday a prominent Uighurs leader called for calm and said he feared Beijing would manipulate Monday’s events for “its own cynical purposes.
“The Chinese government will not hesitate to concoct a version of the incident in Beijing, so as to further impose repressive measures on the Uighur people,” said Rebiya Kadeer, a Washington-based activists in an online statement.

Many dead and injured after bombs detonated at Belgium airport and metro


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


A daredevil slackliner, azaleas in full bloom and Obama meets Castro 


Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.
