2013-07~12
http://www.smh.com.au/world/clash-in-chinas-xinjiang-region-kills-16-20131217-hv64t.html

Clash in China's Xinjiang region kills 16
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News, My Clippings, My Comments and user settings.
Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.

 The October car attack on Tiananmen Square, blamed by Chinese authorities on extremists from Xinjiang. Photo: AFP

Beijing: Sixteen people have been killed in a clash in China's restive Xinjiang region, home to the mostly Muslim Uighur minority, less than two months after a fiery attack in Tiananmen Square.
Police attempting to detain criminal suspects in Shufu county near the Silk Road city of Kashgar, deep in far western China, were attacked by several "thugs" armed with explosive devices and knives, reported the tianshannet news portal, which is run by the Xinjiang regional government.
Two police officers were killed and 14 of the "thugs" shot dead on Sunday, it said.
But an overseas Uighur rights group said police had broken into a house where members of the ethnic minority were "gathering" and opened fire first.
All 14 people killed by police were Uighurs and two of them were minors, said Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the Munich-based World Uyghur Congress.
"The abusive use of force by authorities in the area has deprived the Uighurs of their right to live," he said.
Early on Tuesday, China's official Xinhua news agency reported that six suspects had been captured.
An initial probe has revealed the 14 "terrorists" shot dead were from a group promoting extremist religious ideas and making explosives for terrorist attacks, Xinhua said, citing a Xinjiang police official.
The incident comes less than two months after an attack in Tiananmen Square, the symbolic heart of the Chinese state, when according to police, three Xinjiang Uighurs ploughed into crowds of tourists, killing two people and injuring 40, before crashing outside the Forbidden City and setting their vehicle ablaze.
All three attackers - named by authorities as Usmen Hasan, his wife and his mother - died.
Beijing described the assault, the first blamed on Uighurs outside Xinjiang, as "terrorism", but outside experts pointed to the unsophisticated nature of the attack and the lack of an established militant Islamist foothold in China.

 Compare variable rates as low as 3.99% p.a. now

 All Galaxy S7 plans from all major telcos available now

 Grab a bargain on one of the year's best phones