2013-07~12
http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/WO1307/S00233/ifj-press-freedom-in-china-campaign-bulletin.htm

IFJ Press Freedom In China Campaign Bulletin | Scoop News

World Video | Defence | Foreign Affairs | Natural Events | Trade | NZ in World News | NZ National News Video | NZ Regional News | Search
Welcome to IFJ
Asia-Pacific’s monthly Press Freedom in China Campaign
e-bulletin. The next bulletin will be sent on August
8 2013, and contributions are most welcome. To
contribute news or information, email ifj@ifj-asia.org. To
visit the IFJ’s China Campaign page, go to www.ifj.org.
1) Former New York Times photographer Du
Bin charged with provocation and disturbing public
order2) IFJ condemns law enforcement
officers in Changsha after assaults on journalists
3) IFJ urges France and Thailand to
investigate China’s diplomats over harassment of French
journalist     4) Media clampdown
after series of attacks in Xinjiang5)
Positive spin on money moves6) Mainland
journalist found dead 7) IFJ urges a
transparent and fair trial for veteran journalist
8) IFJ condemns recent series of
attacks against Hong Kong’s Next Media Group
9) IFJ Congress urges Taiwan Government
to pass legislation to protect
pluralism10) A Bad Year for Press
Freedom in Hong Kong - Press release for 2013 HKJA Annual
Report Released

1) Former New York Times
photographer Du Bin charged with
provocation and disturbing public order
Former
New York Times photographer Du Bin, has been detained
by Beijing police since May 31, accused of provocation and
disturbing public order, however police have failed to
provide any proof. Du’s defence lawyer Pu Zhiqiang said
the allegation was unjust because Du had remained in his
apartment without leaving for a long time before he was
detained. Pu said police actually focussed their questions
on Du’s overseas publications rather than accusing him of
disturbing public order. Du, 41, denies the accusations. Du
was arrested on the night of 31 May after the publication of
his most recent book “Tiananmen Square Massacre”. His
home was ransacked and police seized his computer and books.
Du was granted bail on 8 July.
Journalists Ding Senxing and
Cao Zongping of Tencent Online Media were assaulted and
illegally detained by a dozen police officers in Yuelu
District, Changsha , Hunan when they investigated an illegal
land eviction on June 28. According to a report by ChinaAid,
the pair were assaulted and taken away by security bureau
and judicial police when they refused to stop taking photos.
Ding complained of a subsequent assault when he was taken
into a car by police. Bruises were found on their legs and
necks.    
3) IFJ urges
France and Thailand to investigate China’s diplomats over
harassment of French journalist  
According to
Radio Free Asia, Pierre Vaireaux, a journalist for France
24, was harassed by China’s diplomats in France and
Thailand after he aired a documentary about Tibet on May 30.
The report said China’s embassy in Paris called the
station’s chief executive and demanded the program be
removed from its website claiming the report was
“inaccurate”. Upon learning Vaireaux was in Bangkok,
China’s consul there was informed and asked to call him
and seek for a meeting at the Embassy. When Vaireaux refused
to attend, he received several anonymous phone calls and
messages. On June 10, Vaireaux said he received a warning
from the consul over attempt to seek a visa to visit Lhasa,
Tibet. The IFJ believes China’s reaction is totally
unacceptable and equates to a threat against the media.
“It is the responsibility of the Chinese authorities to
review visa-issuing procedure if they think there is any
improper activity rather harassing journalists or media
outlets. Chinese authorities are attempt to turn foreign
media into propaganda tools for their own ends,” The IFJ
said. The IFJ urges Francois Hollande, President of France
and Yingluck Shinawatra, Prime Minister of Thailand, to
investigate the harassment and seek assurances that Chinese
diplomatic staff will operate with restraint and cease any
harassment in future..
In
the lead-up to the fourth anniversary of ethnic violence in
Xinjiang, a series of incidents began on June 26 although
the exact number of casualties and the cause of the series
of incidents have not been publicly acknowledged in
China’s media. According to various Xinjiang newspaper
reports, the Xinjiang government labelled the incidents as
“terrorist attacks” without offering evidence. The
incidents went unreported except in the English language
edition of Xinhua. When that report was re-published by
Tencent and Sina online, it was immediately deleted.
According to the BBC and AFP, journalists have been
prevented from entering the affected areas and police have
also confiscated cameras.
The first attack occurred in
Lukqun township, Shanshan County, Turpan Prefecture City,
where it was reported 35 people were killed. Two days later,
a separate second attack was reported in Hanerik township in
Hotan County and Karakax County (Moyu County). According to
a Global Times report, 100 Uyghurs attacked a police station
after “gathering at local religious venues”, leading to
several casualties, however the report did not specify the
cause of the attack. According to a Radio Free Asia report,
the attack was provoked when a local imam was forced to keep
his sermons “in line with political thinking” which led
to the local mosque being raided by police triggered a
protest by hundreds of Uyghurs on the street. It was
reported that many civilians and policemen were subsequently
killed and injured. Another incident occurred in Saimachang,
Tianshan District, Urumqi. According to the Global Times
report, 200 people “attempted to incite trouble” but no
explanation was disclosed about the cause of the incident.

Various overseas media outlets report the Xinjiang
Government has started to arrest and interrogate hundreds of
Uyghur people after the attacks. According to the Xinjiang
Government’s portal Tianshan.net 26 people have been
punished by the security bureau in Changji City for
allegedly “spreading rumours”. They were punished with
an unspecified period of detention.
During the unrest,
social media sites including QQ, We Chat and Weibo have come
under scrutiny by the security bureau. Paramilitary forces
and police are patrolling the streets and school areas
around the clock. The IFJ believes the Central Politburo
Standing Committee of the Communist Party of China
heavy-handed actions deprive the people of their right to
know and their access to information – both rights are
enshrined in Chinese legislation.
According to a Financial
Times report on July 2, an order was issued by Central
Propaganda Department after the Central Bank of China vowed
to support cash-strapped banks with direct injections of
money. Subsequently the Chinese stock market lost more than
10 per cent in a day and a half of trading. The directive
was said to have been issued at the end of June. The media
was ordered by the Department not to make a fuss about the
monetary policy and, instead, report positively that the
markets had been guaranteed to have sufficient liquidity,
and that China’s monetary policy was steady – all these
reports were in order to positively guide public opinion.

Liu Qi, a journalist for Chengdu
Commercial Daily, was discovered dead on the night of
June 22 arousing suspicions over how he died. According to
various newspaper reports and information from bloggers,
Liu, 27, fell from his second-storey hotel room after
attending a wedding and banquet in his home town of
Guang’an City, Sichuan. Lie was engaged to be married. The
IFJ extends its deepest sympathy to Liu’s family and
friends and and urges Guang’an police to conduct a
thorough investigation into the circumstances of his
death.
7) IFJ urges a transparent and fair trial
for veteran journalist
Hu Yazhu, a veteran
journalist of Nanfang Daily (Southern Daily),
an official newspaper of the Guangdong Communist Party, was
charged with accepting bribery from the Pocuratorate of
Shaoguan City, Guangdong Province on June 24. Although the
official statement claimed Hu admitted to the allegation, he
subsequently denied the accusation in a statement sent out
through his friends. In the statement, he claimed he was
set-up, accusing his former publisher at the newspaper, who
is a member of an alliance of local powerful individuals and
Government officials. Hu had written five investigative
stories that revealed malpractice among local officials but
only one of the named five stories was ever published. Hu
said he was warned by people not to talk about his case, and
fellow journalists have been warned not to speak about
Hu’s case. The IFJ is concerned about Hu’s allegations
and insists that Shaoguan’s judiciary conducts an open and
just criminal trial. The IFJ also urges the All Chinese
Journalists Association and media outlets attend the hearing
to ensure proper judicial procedures are followed.

8) IFJ condemns series attack
against Hong Kong’s Next Media Group
The IFJ
condemns four attacks against Hong Kong’s Next Media
Group. The incidents began on June 19 when a stolen car
rammed into the front gate of the home of Jimmy Lai, the
chairman of Next Media- a listed company. A machete and a
hatchet were left at the scene in Ho Man Tin, Kowloon. A
week later, on June 26, two men set fire to newspapers at
Hung Hom after threatening delivery workers. On June 29 a
long knife was left outside the building in Tai Po, New
Territories. The same evening, three masked men threatened
two delivery workers and set fire to newspapers in Central.
Speaking to Commercial Radio of Hong Kong on June 28, Lai
believed the attacks were due to the newspapers group’s
support for the July 1 rally demanding democracy in Hong
Kong. The IFJ Asia Pacific Office said: “The frequency and
violence of these attacks targeting a media outlet with a
strong profile supporting democracy demonstrates that press
freedom and freedom of expression in Hong Kong is under
threat. Violence is one way to silence democratic voices in
a society. The Hong Kong Government must act swiftly and
responsibly to ensure justice. It must condemn these acts of
violence to protect press freedom which is one of the
fundamental rights of Hong Kong people enshrined in the Hong
Kong Basic Law.”
9) IFJ Congress urges Taiwan
Government to pass legislation to protect pluralism 

The IFJ joins with its colleagues in Taiwan to
express concern at the challenges they confront due to the
increasing concentration of media ownership. The IFJ 2013
World Congress in Dublin, Ireland, urged the Taiwan
Government to ensure proposed new legislation on media
ownership provides effective safeguards against
cross-sectoral monopolisation through rigorous controls
based on market share, including firewalls against the
acquisition of news media by financial and political
interests. The Congress also called on the government to
ensure that robust mechanisms are established to ensure
editorial autonomy and journalistic rights. The proposed new
legislation on media ownership in Taiwan arose after a
anti-monopolisation movements sprang up in the past year.
The Taiwan Journalists Association (ATJ), an affiliate of
IFJ, has been a leading voice in these movements. The
proposed law is a necessary tool to prevent private
conglomerates, including those backed by special political
interests linked with the People`s Republic of China or
other forces contrary to news freedom, diversity and
autonomy and verifiable and diverse sources of
information.
10) A Bad Year for Press Freedom in
Hong Kong - Press release for 2013 HKJA Annual Report
Released
The Hong Kong Journalists’
Association’s (HKJA) 2013 Annual Report has been
published, as a way to pressure the Hong Kong government
into creating an environment that supports press freedom.
Leung Chun-Ying’s first year as Hong Kong’s chief
executive has raised concerns surrounding freedom of
expression and press freedom in Hong Kong. This was a fear
expressed at a Hong Kong Journalists Association (HKJA)
forum held in early 2012. Mr Leung failed to honour many
promises in the HKJA charter that he signed last year,
namely to defend press freedom and play an active role in
implementing a freedom of information law. Mr Leung and his
government have a lot to do to protect and promote press
freedom. The HKJA, in association with the IFJ, calls on the
government to urgently implement freedom of information
legislation, review its policy on law reform to ensure that
freedom of expression concerns are taken into full account
in determining the content of new or amended laws, act
quickly to open up the free-to-air television market, and do
its utmost to prevent and solve incidences of violence and
assault of journalists and media
organisations.
Gordon Campbell: On How Obama’s Supreme Court Choice Says Everything (Bad) About His Presidency
Nothing has epitomised the presidency of Barack Obama quite like his Supreme Court nominees. Time and again, Republican presidents will blithely nominate right wing ideological extremists (Antonin Scalia, Samuel Alito, Clarence Thomas) who only sometimes misfire and turn out to be liberals in disguise (David Souter). Yet Obama has consistently skipped over the judicially qualified liberals and gone for a succession of centrists... More>>
The Secretary-General condemns the terrorist attack in Ankara earlier today. According to the latest reports, the explosion in the Kizilay district killed and wounded dozens of people. More>>
Science Media Centre: It was the worst nuclear event since Chernobyl. In the wake of the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, a crippled Japanese nuclear powerplant went into meltdown, and the world watched as emergency workers scrambled to shut down and contain the reactors. More>>
UNICEF: 1 In 3 Syrian Children Has Grown Up Knowing Only Crisis
An estimated 3.7 million Syrian children – 1 in 3 of all Syrian children - have been born since the conflict began five years ago, their lives shaped by violence, fear and displacement, according to a UNICEF report. This figure includes more than 151,000 children born as refugees since 2011. More>>
Franklin Lamb: Syria’s Truce Bodes Well For Salvaging Our Cultural Heritage
The tentative cessation of hostilities in Syria, which came into effect on 2/28/2016, brokered by Washington and Moscow, is only in its second week... It is well documented that there have been daily incidents of artillery shelling, airstrikes and clashes. Yet, for the nearly 12 million displaced civilians, half of Syria’s population, it’s a much welcomed respite. More>>
Well, it certainly was entertaining to watch Rubio succeed in getting under Donald Trump’s skin the other day, in the last debate before tomorrow’s Super Tuesday multi-state sweepstakes... The real killer for Rubio was that the most recent poll from Florida which shows him losing his home state to Trump by a huge margin in the primary due on March 15. More>>
22/2 Foreign Minister Murray McCully has announced a further Defence Force flight to Fiji and $1.8 million in funding, bringing New Zealand’s total contribution to relief efforts following Tropical Cyclone Winston to $2.2 million… More>>