2013-07~12
http://news.rediff.com/commentary/2013/jul/06/liveupdates.htm

Live! Elbaradei to be named Egypt's interim PM - Rediff.com India News
Opposition leader Mohamed ElBaradei was chosen as Egypt's interim prime minister, according to sources close to the presidency.A military source confirmed that the former UN nuclear watchdog chief was to be sworn in later on Saturday, three days after the army overthrew President Mohamed Morsi.
Interim leader Adly Mansour summoned ElBaradei to the presidential palace, the state news agency reported, without giving more details.The Tamarod (rebellion) campaign had nominated ElBaradei to represent the movement in transition negotiations with the military.
The news came as thousands of Morsi supporters massed in Nasr City and other place across Egypt to reinforce their demand for the reinstatement of the ousted leader.
A train carrying petrochemicals has exploded in a Canadian town, forcing the evacuation of up to 1,000 people. The blast sent a fireball and black smoke into the air, destroying dozens of buildings in Lac-Megantic, some 155 miles (250 km) east of Montreal.
The train derailed early on Saturday; police who worked through the night said several people were missing, but no casualties had yet been confirmed. Firefighters from across the border in the US are helping tackle the blaze. "When you see the centre of your town almost destroyed, you'll understand that we're asking ourselves how we are going to get through this event," an emotional Mayor Colette Roy-Laroche told a televised news briefing.
At least 28 students and one teacher have been killed in an attack by gunmen on a boarding school in Nigeria's northeast. Survivors being treated for burn and gunshots wounds said some students were burned alive in the attack on the Government Secondary School in Mamudo town in Yobe state early on Saturday.
As he wept over the bodies of his two boys, farmer Malam Abdullahi swore he would withdraw three remaining sons from a nearby school. He complained there was no protection for students despite the deployment of thousands of troops since the government declared a state of emergency mid-May in three northeastern states.
West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee today described the food security ordinance by the Centre as impractical and pre-Lok Sabha election bluff.        
"Unable to safeguard the country's security, (UPA government) is claiming to give food security to the people. There is no money available for it. Such things happen before election. It is a lie, it is a bluff," Banerjee said.        
"We are not against food security. But we want that food should properly reach to the people", she said while addressing a panchayat election meeting of her party at Jayanagar in South 24 Parganas district.        
Stating that UPA government would not return to power for another term, Banerjee accused the Central government of non-cooperation over financial aid to the cash-strapped state.  
Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi while addressing 1,500 BJP workers in Bihar from Gujarat has slammed his counterpart Nitish Kumar, saying BJP would never forgive the JD-U leader for breaking the alliance.
After Modi's elevation to the post of BJP's campaign committee chief, Nitish Kumar-led JD-U snapped its ties 17-year-old ties with BJP.
A special CBI court hearing the Aarushi-Hemraj double murder case today trashed the petition of dentist couple Rajesh and Nupur Talwar seeking to defer the proceedings of the case till July 20.        
The Talwar couple had yesterday moved a fresh petition seeking to defer the ongoing case proceedings till July 20. The couple had sought time till July 20 saying that the Allahabad High Court has reserved its verdict for July 16 on their plea, seeking reports of brain mapping, sound simulation test, narco-analysis and lie detector test be put on court record.        
However, Additional Sessions Judge Shyam Lal rejected their plea and fixed July 8 as the next date of hearing.
Former India player and member of the 1983 World Cup winning squad Kirti Azad was today allegedly detained at the Heathrow Airport in London for two hours before being allowed to board a Delhi-bound flight.     
According to one of his office assistants, Azad was allegedly detained as the security officials at the airport found his surname to be suspicious. "He (Azad) informed us about being detained for two hours at the Heathrow after which he was allowed to board the flight back to India. He said that the authorities were suspicious about his last name 'Azad'," his office assistant said.     
There were also reports that the authorities found him carrying a bottle of liquid which Azad seemingly claimed to be contaminated water. However this fact could not be verified.
Central forces for the first phase of panchayat polls in West Bengal, slated for July 11, would reach the state tomorrow and on Monday, sources in the state home department said today.      
The central forces would comprise CRPF, BSF, CISF, besides police personnel from Punjab and Madhya Pradesh, the sources said.Orissa was unable to provide any force in view of the impending Rathyatra.         Coordination of the central forces would be done by IG(BSF) A K Sharma, the sources said. In the first phase, the Junglemahal districts of Purulia, Bankura and West Midnapore would go to the polls.        
As per the order of the Supreme Court, 130 of the 150 central force companies would come initially and would later be reinforced by another 20 companies to be pulled out from Junglemahal in the state.    
Shah, who is in Ayodhya to attend a party meeting, said, "Before 
the meet, I came to seek Lord Ram's blessings. I've prayed for the 
country to be free of Congress. We will build the Ram temple and restore
 Lord Ram to his rightful place."
