2013-07~12
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2013/07/02/in-wake-of-xinjiang-violence-hints-of-a-new-approach/

After Xinjiang Violence, Hints of a New Approach - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
A recent resurgence of violence in China’s northwestern region of Xinjiang is clearly of concern to the Communist Party leadership.
But it’s Party conservatives who should be worried the most, for the clashes in Xinjiang have provided Xi Jinping and his reformist allies with another opportunity to strengthen their argument that many of the old ways of governance aren’t working.
On the surface, Beijing’s response to the unrest might seem to be part of same old policies followed by Xi’s predecessors: There was the immediate dispatch of a high-level Politburo delegation to the Xinjiang capital of Urumqi, and the usual strong condemnation of the deadly rampage, which was said to be the result of “ethnic separatist forces inside and outside Xinjiang…a small number of violent criminals who had been stepping up activities to affect social stability in Xinjiang” (in Chinese).
Chinese security forces also moved in rapidly, displaying the sort of strength and firepower available to the government, if any local trouble threatened to develop into larger turmoil.
But if some of the reaction from Beijing was only too familiar, there were signs of a new, more subtle approach at work.
The Politburo contingent that arrived in Urumqi on the weekend was nuanced in its public assessment of the situation in the province. Instead of focusing on what was branded “terrorism” in the Chinese media, Yu Zhengsheng, who headed the delegation from Beijing, urged cadres in Xinjiang to “comprehensively strengthen the social aspects of overall prevention and control” and focus on “grassroots work, by closely relying on the extensive mobilization of grassroots organizations and Party members.”  Yu suggested that officials should look to work with the masses to “prevent, control and treat” the circumstances that produce the violence to start with.
That’s not the usual head-cracking hardline that Hu Jintao and his fellow conservatives followed for nearly all of their tenure.  Instead, it’s what Xi has been urging cadres to do in recent days:  change their work style to gain a greater sense of the needs and dreams of the masses they are supposed to be supervising.
Indeed, other members of the same Politburo group–security czars Meng Jianzhu and Guo Shengkun—in conducting inspection tours of police headquarters and villages close to the area affected by violence, reminded officers that their first task was “prevention against crime, and maintaining social peace” (in Chinese)—hardly the syntax of strong-arm coercion.
That silkier strategy should also appeal to those in Xinjiang who simply want to go about their daily lives—a theme that has been played up in the Party media (in Chinese) ever since the most recent outbreak of violence.
Of course, Yu was not being gentle when, in the same speech, he called on local authorities “to continue to carry out violence against terrorist groups and extremist organizations, and for special operations to increase the pursuit efforts.”
Clearly, the previous Chinese leadership’s focus on “social stability” hasn’t disappeared entirely.
But, in fact, Xi’s people are finding ways to move beyond that catch-all concept of their predecessors, for they plainly see “social stability” and “maintaining stability” as too restrictive, tied to old traditions and not part of the new style of politics that Xi continues to cultivate and the “cadres of quality” he and his associates want to emerge (in Chinese).
The clashes in Xinjiang have helped them make some headway in this regard, too.
For example, some of the coverage in the Party media about the recent unrest simply uses the word, “stability.”  By dropping the word “social,” reformers are signaling the lower ranks that there’s a line they’re testing that’s different from the previous leadership.
Leading Party newspapers have also been departing from the tried and tired smackdown script by giving prominence to “actual and effective operations of peace-building,” both just before and following the clashes in Xinjiang (in Chinese).
Also, “safeguarding the people’s safety” – a phrase that implies deferring to local conditions on the ground and sometimes precedes references to “stability” — is taking a foothold in a number of speeches, slogans and editorials, as well (in Chinese).
These directions in the Party media beckon cadres to be more creative in deciding how to attain harmony on the streets — to not just rely on the usual strong-arm tactics. Inspiring cadres to stay calm and cast off past practices isn’t going to be easy, especially when the central leadership is taking a hard look at itself and its own shortcomings.
But as a front-page editorial in the authoritative People’s Daily stated on Sunday, the clashes in Xinjiang “will only make more people keep their eyes open, and clearly distinguish right from wrong” (in Chinese).
Xi Jinping and his allies want that statement to be true — and not just for Xinjiang.
Russell Leigh Moses is the Dean of Academics and Faculty at The Beijing Center for Chinese Studies. He is writing a book on the changing role of power in the Chinese political system.
Like China Real Time on Facebook and follow us Twitter for the latest updates.
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

correction:
There is no "3rd East Turkistan Republic" proclaimed in public
more wikipedia for those who are interested.... there are also issues related to Russia, it gets pretty complicated...when the two country had their relationship gone sour, they started supporting each other's enermies...
"In recent years Xinjiang has been a focal point of ethnic and other tensions.
Recent incidents include the 2007 Xinjiang raid, a thwarted 2008 suicide bombing attempt on a China Southern Airlines flight,[56] and the 2008 Xinjiang attack which resulted in the deaths of sixteen police officers four days before the Beijing Olympics.[57][58] Further incidents include the July 2009 Ürümqi riots, the September 2009 Xinjiang unrest, and the 2010 Aksu bombing that led to the trials of 376 people."
First, Second, Third East Turkistan Republic was proclaimed through riots/rebellions/revolutions/unrests, but none lasted long, at times it almost look promising to the Uyghurs. "A Second East Turkistan Republic (2nd ETR, also known as the Three Districts Revolution) existed from 1944 to 1949 with Soviet support in what is now Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture (Ili, Tarbagatay and Altay Districts) in northern Xinjiang. The Second East Turkistan Republic came to an end when the People's Liberation Army entered Xinjiang in 1949. Also, five ETR leaders, who would negotiate the final status of East Turkistan with the Chinese, died in an air crash in 1949 in Soviet airspace over the Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic. The Chinese Muslim General Bai Chongxi advocated swamping Xinjiang with disbanded Chinese soldiers to prevent the Soviet union from seizing control during this time. According to the PRC interpretation, the 2nd ETR was Xinjiang's revolution, a positive part of the communist revolution in China; the 2nd ETR acceded to and welcomed the PLA when it entered Xinjiang, a process known as the Peaceful Liberation of Xinjiang. However, independence advocates view the ETR as an effort to establish an independent state, and the subsequent PLA entry as an invasion". My interpretation, at least the Han population welcomed the PLA, and the separatists in Xinjiang obvoiusly viewed it as an invasion even though Xinjiang was under Chinese rule for centuries and the control was weakened when China had other issues to deal with (change of dynasties, sino-Japanese war, civil wara between the nationalist party of china and the communist party of china...), so in 1949, after PRC established itself officially, it finally had time for Xinjiang and Tibet.
"In 60 BC Han China established the Protectorate of the Western Regions at Wulei (near modern Luntai) to oversee the entire region as far west as the Pamir. Tarim Basin was under the influence and control of the Han dynasty.".......and the story goes on, back and forth, back and forth, under the rule of this and that, 'In 1884 (or 1882 according to some sources), the Qing dynasty established Xinjiang ("new frontier") as a province, formally applying to it the political systems of the rest of China and dropping the old name of Huijiang, or "Muslimland".'....then at the end of Qing Dynasty, it was turbulent times for China (doubt they had much time for Xinjiang at the time)...there were many large-scaled attempts to gain independence, all failed in the end.
"The first people lived in Xinjang were Central Asian mongoloid people and few thousand years ago European migrants came in the Xinjang...." So whoever their descendants are, they have more rights than the Uyghurs to claim Xinjiang. Xinjiang was never "independent", like Tibet, they were mostly under the rule of a powerful empire/state/nomatic group and sometimes gained temporary "independence" through rebellions etc..
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
