2013-07~12
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2013/12/31/Last-3-of-22-Uighur-detainees-transferred-from-Guantanamo-Bay-prison/UPI-32231388507507/?spt=rln&or=1

With 3 Chinese detainees sent to Slovakia, 155 prisoners left at Gitmo - UPI.com
GUANTANAMO BAY, Cuba, Dec. 31 (UPI) -- Three Chinese detainees at the military prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, were sent voluntarily to Slovakia, the U.S. Defense Department announced Tuesday.
The three were the last of 22 ethnic Uighurs from China captured in Afghanistan after the U.S. invasion in 2001 and brought to Guantanamo facility, where they remained until a country agreed to accept them, the New York Times reported.
Although the military decided that the Uighurs were not at war with the United States and should be released, the United States could not repatriate the Uighurs because the Chinese government has a history of mistreating Uighurs. Other countries expressed reluctance to take them in, in part because of diplomatic pressure exerted by China.
"The United States is grateful to the government of Slovakia for this humanitarian gesture and its willingness to support U.S. efforts to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facility," said Rear Adm. John Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary. "The United States coordinated with the government of Slovakia to ensure the transfer took place in accordance with appropriate security and humane treatment measures."
Nine detainees left Guantanamo in December, and 11 since last summer, when President Obama revived his efforts to close the prison. There are 155 prisoners remaining at the facility.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.