2013-07~12
http://ajw.asahi.com/article/asia/AJ201311040069

Beijing indicates new approach to Uighur region - AJW by The Asahi Shimbun
BEIJING--The Chinese government is showing signs of seeking a new approach to ethnic Uighurs in the country, but it continued to label last week’s fatal crash in Tiananmen Square as a terrorist attack by radicals.
The incident has clearly shocked the administration of President Xi Jinping because it occurred in such an internationally famous location and involved foreign tourists as victims.
The deadly crash could lead to another review of China’s Uighur policy. But this would be a delicate process because further controls over the Uighur religion and culture could escalate ethnic strife in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region.
A strong crackdown could also bring international attention to the years of Chinese government suppression of the Uighurs.
The Xinjiang Ribao, the Communist Party organ for the region, reported on Nov. 3 that Peng Yong had been dismissed as a member of the Communist Party’s standing committee of the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, the highest leadership body in the region.
Peng, 59, was the commander of the Xinjiang military region before being named to the standing committee in August 2011. No reason was given for Peng’s dismissal, but there is speculation the move was related to the Tiananmen incident last week.
According to Beijing municipal government officials, a vehicle drove into a crowd at Tiananmen Square, crashed and caught fire in front of Tiananmen Gate on Oct. 28. Three people in the vehicle died, two tourists were killed and 40 others were injured.
The Chinese government has emphasized its belief that the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) was involved in the attack and has taken steps to strengthen its anti-terrorism measures.
“The ETIM has been recognized by the United Nations Security Council as a terrorist organization,” Hua Chunying, a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, said at a Nov. 1 news conference.
The comment might have been intended to fend off international criticism if Beijing cracks down on the Uighurs.
The Chinese media has followed the government line in reporting on developments, despite the many unanswered questions, including motive.
The state-run China Central Television on Nov. 1 used an English-language microblogging site to transmit information from police authorities that the suspects in the crash had cased out the location on three occasions.
On the same day, a Hong Kong-based wire service affiliated with Beijing released a report saying the three suspects had been inculcated in the radical ideology of ETIM by watching videos by the group. The report cited reliable sources.
But sources related to the judicial sector in Beijing said the three suspects in the vehicle were likely seeking equal rights, not independence as sought by ETIM. They said the trio repeatedly petitioned various government agencies to protest unfair measures taken by government officials in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region.
On Nov. 2, the U.S. government-affiliated Radio Free Asia broadcast a report that said the crash may have been an act of revenge. A man who died in the vehicle lost a family member during the July 2009 rioting in Urumqi, the capital of the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, according to the report.
About 2,000 people died or were injured in that rioting.
Ilham Tohti, a Beijing-based economist who has argued for the rights of the Uighurs, told The Asahi Shimbun that a car he was riding in was deliberately hit from behind on Nov. 2.
Three men in the other car tried to steal the mobile phone of Tohti’s family member and warned him against talking too much with the foreign media, he said.
Although Beijing has detained a number of suspects and wants to close the curtain on the incident, the political ramifications are far from settled.
The core Communist Party body dealing with Uighur issues is the Central Coordinating Group for Xinjiang Affairs. There was speculation that the Xi administration wanted to change course in its dealings with Uighur issues by putting the head of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference in charge of the central coordinating group.
The political consultative conference is in charge of reconciliation and unification among various ethnic groups.
A Beijing-based diplomat said such a move would show the Xi administration was moving from suppression toward engagement in the autonomous region.
During Wang Lequan’s unusually long tenure as the Communist Party secretary in Xinjiang from 1995 to 2010, Uighur religion and culture was suppressed. Unrest arose because of feelings that Han Chinese were being allowed to gain control of the economic and natural resources sectors in the region.
After the 2009 rioting, Wang was replaced by Zhang Chunxian, who tried to partially revise ethnic policy. While the clampdown on anti-government elements continued, the emphasis in the economic sphere shifted toward promotion of development and sharing of benefits.
Armed police officers keep a close watch on pedestrians near the International Grand Bazaar, one of the main tourist destinations in Urumqi, on Oct. 30. (Kim Soon-hi)
TAIPEI/ BEIJING--Taiwan should abandon its “hallucinations” about pushing for independence, as any moves toward it would be a “poison,” Chinese state-run media said after a landslide victory for the island’s independence-leaning opposition.
Taiwan, China leaders to hold historic meeting in Singapore on Nov. 7
TAIPEI/BEIJING--Chinese President Xi Jinping will hold talks with his Taiwanese counterpart Ma Ying-jeou in Singapore on Nov. 7 in the first such meeting of leaders from the two rivals since the Chinese civil war ended in 1949.
TAIPEI--Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou said Oct. 1 the island was not ready to discuss unification with China, sending a firm message to an increasingly assertive Beijing eager to absorb what it considers as a renegade province.
KUALA LUMPUR--Malaysian police have detained three men, including two foreigners, for questioning over their possible involvement in terrorism after the U.S. and Australian embassies warned of a potential attack at a popular hawker street in Kuala Lumpur.
BEIJING--They were born too late to remember the night 26 years ago when Chinese troops slaughtered hundreds of pro-democracy student activists in the heart of Beijing. Many grew up hearing only government accounts of the event, which paint the massacre as the unfortunate conclusion to some vague political intrigue.
Copyright The Asahi Shimbun Company. All rights reserved. No reproduction or republication without written permission.