2013-07~12
http://www.aljazeera.com/news/asia-pacific/2013/12/china-media-says-clash-xinjiang-kills-16-2013121644637149469.html&c=906PKODE5JlhSezUmqE3774KORfUji4hhNyTSooXt6o&mkt=en-us

China media says clash in Xinjiang kills 16 - AJE News
Meet the refugees who fled Syria for the Gaza Strip
Sixteen people have been killed in a clash in China's restive far western region of Xinjiang, home to the mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority, state media has reported.
Police attempting to detain criminal suspects in Shufu county in the city of Kashgar were attacked by several "thugs" armed with explosive devices and knives, reported the tianshannet news portal on Monday, which is run by the Xinjiang government.
Two police officers were killed and 14 of the "thugs" shot dead on Sunday, it said. Two criminal suspects were detained, it added.
The incident comes six weeks after a fiery attack in Tiananmen Square, when according to Chinese police three Xinjiang Uighurs set their vehicle ablaze after ploughing into crowds of tourists, killing two people and injuring 40.
The three attackers - named by authorities as Usmen Hasan, his wife and his mother - all died.
Xinjiang, a vast area bordering Pakistan and Central Asia in China's far west, beyond the furthest reaches of the Great Wall, has followed Islam for centuries.
For years it has seen sporadic unrest by Uighurs which rights groups say is driven by cultural oppression and intrusive security measures but China attributes to extremist religion, terrorism and separatism.

 Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
 are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
 or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
 global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
 accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.

A crew of underground rappers in Havana fight for a free Cuba by taking the young to task over their apathy.
Aboriginal communities taking their cases against oil pipeline and seismic testing to Supreme Court of Canada.
Who dies and where they were shot determines how much attention their deaths get and how many questions are asked.
The Gulf’s ace women's tennis player is putting the region on the world tennis map and eyeing an historic Olympic spot.
Belgian media say 13 people killed at Zaventem airport, shortly before another blast kills 15 at Maelbeek station.
At unprecedented joint news conference, US and Cuban presidents go toe-to-toe on human rights and economic punishment.
Nigeria's first female mechanic views her country through the prism of opportunity and enterprise for women.
Latin American migrants risk life and limb to reach the US border in search of the American dream.
The incredible story of 18 cows that became Israel's most wanted fugitives and symbols of Palestinian resistance.