2013-07~12
http://tribune.com.pk/story/632587/pak-china-collaboration-bilingual-magazine-offers-platform-for-sharing-experiences/

Pak-China collaboration: Bilingual magazine offers platform for sharing experiences - The Express Tribune

Only internet version is available in the country. PHOTO: FILE
In a country where even roti can have political implications, a cultural journal aims at projecting a positive image of the land and its people while keeping the content strictly non-political. The idea is to reflect the country’s vibrant and dynamic culture, where people go about living their lives despite the lingering menace of terrorism.
However, it is not just about Pakistani culture. Youlin Magazine – a collaborative venture between Pakistan-China Institute (PCI) and the Cultural Exchange Association of Xinjiang – encourages contact between the two countries and provides a platform to the people from both sides of the border, to their share stories, experiences and cultures. This close-knit relationship is aptly reflected in the magazine title, “Youlin,” which literally translates to “good neighbours” in the Chinese language.
While the print version of the magazine is published in Xinjiang, the website is operated by an editorial and technical team based out of PCI in Islamabad.
“This is the only bilingual (Chinese and English) website and the goal is to eventually have people [also] working for us in China and writing for the website,” said Prof. (retd) Dushka Saiyid, the magazine editor at Pakistan’s end.
When asked about the dominance of Pakistani content on the website, she replied, “We operate on a shoestring budget so what we get from China is very limited. We don’t have people working there unless [ands depends on stories] sent by our Xinjiang branch. That is why at the moment, the website tends to be Pakistan-centric.”
Since 60 per cent of Pakistan’s population is the youth, the magazine focuses on them. “It’s very important to build the youth up, give them positive feedback and recognise their efforts. There are a lot of people who are not recognised and they are doing good work.” The youth is full of promise and they are our hope, she added.
An entire section of the website, “Hum Nau Jawan”, has been dedicated to celebrate the achievements of the youth pushing boundaries in various spheres. Another section, “In Focus,” features experts’ views like Shireen Mazari’s article on Gwadar’s importance and Fahd Hussain’s perspective on how media is changing the Pakistani landscape.”
Meanwhile, the “Giving Back” series pays homage to unsung individuals and institutions and also covers Chinese expats living Pakistan who are contributing to the society and economy.
“Youlin Diaries” offers a cultural guide to the events happening in Islamabad and Lahore and reviews of some of these events. Recent entries include the reviews of Khayaal Arts and Literature Festival in Lahore.
Then there are travel blogs. Shahida Jamali, avid writer and traveller, shares her experiences in the blog “Globetrotting Shahida”. Meanwhile, Amna and Yaver, a young couple, also contribute pieces on their travels in Italy.
The magazine is a small part of PCI, a think tank that promotes people-to-people communication between the two countries. Originating as a web-virtual space in October 2009, PCI was formally inaugurated in the capital last year, following the launch of the magazine and the website.
“We are always scouting for people who would be interested in writing for us,” Saiyid said.  The e-magazine can be followed on its Facebook page and website.
Two-day exhibition of eight eminent personalities of China goes up at Pakistan Museum of Natural History.

Khalid termed Pak-China Economic corridor a historic long-term project of cooperation between the countries
Two-day conference concludes with tips for Pak investors looking at China’s markets.

This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, redistributed or derived from.
Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2016 The Express Tribune.
Technical feedback? [email protected]
