2013-07~12
http://www.worldbulletin.net/?aType=haber&ArticleID=122077

China Xinjiang military boss booted off ruling council | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
China's ruling Communist Party announced on Sunday the removal of the military chief of restive Xinjiang (East Turkistan)  from the region's governing council, following a car crash in Beijing's Tiananmen Square.
The official Xinjiang Daily said in a brief front page report that Peng Yong had been sacked as a member of Xinjiang's Communist Party Standing Committee, and would be replaced by Liu Lei, an army veteran with more than a decade's experience in the region.
The newspaper gave no reason for the move, but the party frequently removes top officials following such incidents as it seeks to apportion blame.
The incident was especially embarrassing for the stability-obsessed party given the billions of dollars it spends every year on domestic security, not only in Xinjiang but across the country, and that the crash happened in the heart of Beijing.
Peng was appointed commander of the Xinjiang military region in July 2011. It is likely that he will also be relieved of his military duties.
Real power in China lies with party bodies rather than government ones, as that is where the key decisions are made.
The government has blamed Islamist extremists plotting holy war after a vehicle police said was laden with gasoline ploughed into bystanders outside the front entrance of the Forbidden City, on the north of Tiananmen Square.
The three people in the car died, as did two tourists. More than 40 were injured. Police have also detained five suspected accomplices.
Security has been stepped up in Beijing and Xinjiang following the incident.
Beijing party chief Guo Jinlong has urged the police to improve their capacity to collect intelligence and take precautions against further attacks, the city government-run Beijing Daily said on Sunday.
Guo urged police and security forces to "look for vulnerable links" and "learn the lessons" from the incident, the report said.
The Uighur declared independence in October 1933 but the region went under the control of communist China in 1949.
There has been immigration of Han Chinese, a majority ethnic group to East Asia, which subdued Uighur influence in the region and made them a minority.
Muslim Uighur have complained that China has restrained Uighurs' religious, commercial and cultural activities.
A 67-year-old man from the southeastern city of Chittagong, who had not travelled abroad, was found to have the virus in his blood
Security forces detonate roadside bomb in Muslim majority province where military has been clashing with ISIL-affiliated group
Two maintenance workers have been killed after a train in Singapore hit the workers
Suu Kyi to take one of four positions in new cabinet, with Minister of Foreign Affairs tipped to be the likely choice
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

Gunman killed in attack on Mali hotel hosting EU mission

US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar

NASA astronaut to return to Earth after year in space
