2013-07~12
http://www.politico.com/politico44/2013/07/obama-administration-sends-two-guantanamo-detainees-169303.html

Obama administration plans to send two Guantanamo detainees to Algeria - POLITICO
The Justice Department said Attorney General Loretta Lynch has also been briefed.
Donald Trump said Tuesday that he has been warning about the importance of border security for some time - a comment that comes in response to a series...
Hillary Clinton's campaign early Tuesday morning pushed back against reports that former President Bill Clinton called President Barack Obama's policies...
The Ohio governor’s increase in support among Republicans and Republican-leaning voters is the largest gain of any GOP presidential candidate.
Their new ad quotes him as talking about expanding Republican ranks.
The most decisive phase of the election has passed; and it’s not looking good for the GOP.
He has a rare chance to speak to a closed nation, but regime change isn't on the agenda.
Two of the three states voting Tuesday are in Bernie Sanders' wheelhouse. Arizona is looking a lot tougher.
Cruz and Kasich are working at cross-purposes, setting Trump up to win most of Tuesday's delegates despite big trouble in Utah.
The British prime minister says Turkish membership in the European Union is "not remotely in prospect."
Belgium and France are full of praise for each other, but the peace won’t last.
Not all the demonstrators were fond of AIPAC, but they were unified in their disdain for Trump.
Utah Sen. Mike Lee sought to arrange a shotgun wedding of his two Senate colleagues, but Rubio wasn't interested.
In a historic news conference, Obama not only allowed Castro to be pressed on political prisoners. He joined in himself.
The Justice Department may not need Apple's help any longer.
Clinton leads the Democratic field with 51 percent but Sanders is hot on her heels at 44 percent.
He mocks Trump as not a true friend of Israel.
Republicans can't figure out the mogul's quirky mix of advisers.
The unfavorable ratings are the highest in the history of the poll asking the question, dating back to 1984.
"I didn’t come here tonight to pander to you about Israel."
Three ridiculous stunts I'm refusing to cover, and why you should ignore them too.
Bernie Sanders has won a primary of American expatriates whom Democrats invite to participate in the party's presidential nominating process.
The network cut away from the press conference entirely at one point.
It's gotten so small-ball that one congressman introduced a bill to recognize the significance of magic.
Clinton launched her most pointed attack yet on the Republican front-runner.
Trump called Warren "the Indian," recalling her past claims of Native American heritage.
The Defense Department notified Congress on Friday that it intends to send two Guantanamo Bay detainees back to Algeria, White House press secretary Jay Carney said in a statement.
"As the president has said, the United States remains determined to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay," Carney said, and the repatriation of the two detainees -- the first releases this year -- are "in support of those efforts."
"We are taking this step in consultation with the Congress, and in a responsible manner that protects our national security," he added.
Two Uyghurs -- Chinese Muslims -- were released to El Salvador in 2012, and Omar Khadr, a Canadian national, was sent home in September 2012 to finish out the remainder of his sentence. The most recent round of repatriation outside the Western Hemisphere happened in early 2010 and included the return of two Algerians to their home country.
"We continue to call on Congress to join us in supporting these efforts by lifting the current restrictions that significantly limit our ability to transfer detainees out of Guantanamo, even those who have been approved for transfer," Carney said. 
The Obama administration has been calling on Congress to end the ban on repatriating Guantanamo detainees to Yemen, which was put in place soon after the attempted Christmas Day 2009 bombing by a suspect who was trained in Yemen.
Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) met with White House officials including counsel Kathy Ruemmler and counterterrorism adviser Lisa Monaco last week to discuss the release of some detainees.
Feinstein said in a statement Friday that she supports the administrations plan to repatriate the two detainees and that it is "an important step toward closing the prison once and for all."
“I renew my call to send the other 84 detainees cleared for transfer out of Guantanamo," she added. "These transfers have been impeded by congressional action, and I strongly support the provisions in this year’s defense authorization bill, as approved by the Senate Armed Services Committee, that will provide more flexibility to the commander-in-chief.”