2013-07~12
http://www.pv-tech.org/news/punjab_offered_3.2gw_electricty_from_china_in_solar_visit

Punjab offered 3.2GW electricty by China during solar visit | PV-Tech

 The Chief Minister of Punjab, Shahbaz Sharif has been offered 3.2GW of exported electricity from China during a visit to discuss joint solar ventures.

 The source of the electricity has not been disclosed.

 The visit’s purpose was to discuss solar energy development to meet the current 5-6GW shortfall responsible for the current load-shedding energy crisis. Sharif said he was seeking joint solar ventures not direct aid from China.

 He used the trip to visit solar power plants, and met with Masood Khalid, an ambassador for the foreign affairs office of the Xinjiang Autonomous Region, and Li Jian Hua, CEO of the TBEA Group the largest EPC company in China, according to NPD Solarbuzz.

 After visiting a solar plant in Xinjiang, Sharif writing on his Facebook page said: “Addressing the energy crisis is one of the top priorities of the present government and in this visit is totally meant to find a quick feasible solution to this problem.”

 He also noting China’s “keen interest and cooperation in addressing [the] energy crisis and infrastructure development of the country".

 Sharif also said in another Facebook statement, published yesterday, that: “Meeting the energy shortfall will regalvanise economic activity, unleash an era of economic prosperity and brighten the country’s future.”

 Sharif told reporters during the trip that China had also agreed to assist in building a solar cell factory to boost Pakistan’s domestic manufacturing.

 Sharif also mentioned the 1GW project underway by Powerway Group and Nizam.

 It is unclear whether the latest offer from China for electricity exports will dampen the minister's enthusiasm for solar energy.

 A memorandum of understanding for 150MW of solar in Lahore was recently signed between the Pakistani government and China North Industries Corporation (NORINCO), as well as a consortium of European countries.

 Sharif also signed an MoU for a coal project between Qatar, China and Pakistan in September 2013 in an effort to heal the energy crisis.

 The Quaid-e-Azam solar park, a 700MW project is also in the final approval stages for the first tranche of 100MW.

 The Punjab government also has an earlier MoU in place with German solar company AEG, which is planning to build 450MW of PV in the province. It is also in discussion with the UK about PV cooperation.

 Pakistan also set up a joint venture yesterday with Switzerland based renewable energy engineers, meeco service’s Pakistan subsidiary. The joint venture is to be named OurSun Solar Power and has already secured 1.7MW of PV projects in Lahore, with meeco to provide EPC services.
The recent extension to the US investment tax credit (ITC) could enable First Solar to shift emphasis and therefore revenue generation to selling its CdTe thin-film modules to third parties rather than directly to PV power plant projects, according to a research note from Deutsche Bank analyst, Vishal Shah.

The US installed 7.3GW of solar in 2015, according to new data published by GTM Research and the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) on Monday.
Lockheed Martin has signed a solar power purchase agreement (PPA) with Duke Energy in the US for energy from an 80MW power plant in North Carolina.
India-based renewables developer ReNew Power Ventures will receive up to US$250 million of debt financing from Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC), the US government's development finance institution, to help construct 400MW of solar PV projects in India.
The Australian Solar Council has claimed that reported plans to merge the Australian Renewable Energy Agency (ARENA) and the Clean Energy Finance Corporation (CEFC) could result in the removal of funding for ARENA.
PV inverter manufacturer Sungrow announced that one of its 1500V PV installations was successfully connected to the grid – opening up to the next stage of the project.
We send out a daily email newsletter with the latest in depth news and analysis. Here is a preview.