2013-07~12
http://ajw.asahi.com/article/asia/AJ201312300079

Chinese police kill eight in Xinjiang 'terrorist attack' - AJW by The Asahi Shimbun
BEIJING--Chinese police shot dead eight people during a "terrorist attack" in the western region of Xinjiang on Dec. 30, the government said, raising the death toll from violent clashes there to at least 35 since November.
The attack happened in Yarkand County close to the old Silk Road city of Kashgar in Xinjiang's south, the regional government said in a statement on its news website.
"At around 6:30 a.m., nine thugs carrying knives attacked a police station in Kashgar's Yarkand county, throwing explosive devices and setting police cars on fire," it said.
"The police took decisive measures, shooting dead eight and capturing one," it added, labelling the incident a "violent terrorist attack" which was being investigated.
Xinjiang is home to a Turkic-speaking, Muslim people known as Uighurs, some of whom resent what they see as oppressive treatment by the government.
At least 91 people, including several police officers, have been killed in violence in Xinjiang since April, according to state media reports.
This month, police shot and killed 14 people during a riot near Kashgar in which two policemen were also killed.
In a similar outburst of violence, at least nine civilians and two policemen were killed when a group of people armed with axes and knives attacked a police station, also near Kashgar, last month, state media has said.
China has previously blamed some of the violence in Xinjiang on Islamist militants plotting holy war.
The latest attack showed the serious threat posed by separatism, extremism and terrorism, China's Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang told reporters at a regular press briefing.
"The Chinese government will strike hard against them in accordance with the law," Qin said.
Many Uighurs chafe at restrictions on their culture, language and religion, though the government insists it grants them broad freedoms.
Rights groups and exiles say police often use often heavy-handed tactics against the Uighur community. Violence has broken out previously when groups of Uighurs protest at police stations, they say.
Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the main Uighur exile group, the World Uyghur Congress, said the international community should prevent China from continuing its "repressive policies" against Uighurs.
"Directly firing on and killing protesters and accusing them of so-called terror is currently China's post-judicial reform means of repressing the Uighur people. Uighurs endure China's discrimination and humiliation and are facing a crisis for survival and faith," he said in an emailed statement.
The Chinese city of Kashgar in Xinjiang. The dwellings in the foreground are for the Uighur people. (Asahi Shimbun file photo)
China expands embargo on North Korea vessels to 6 ports
SHENYANG, China--China has expanded its embargo on port visits by North Korean freighters in a unilateral sanction to punish Pyongyang for its recent nuclear and missile tests.
China imposes embargo on N. Korea vessels in strict sanction
YINGKOU, China--In response to Pyongyang’s nuclear and missile tests, China has banned the entry of North Korean vessels to Yingkou port in Liaoning province, a major gateway for China’s coal imports from the reclusive state.
BEIJING--Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg held a rare meeting Saturday with China's propaganda chief, at a time when Chinese authorities are tightening control over their cyberspace.
Japan's ruling party urged Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government on Wednesday to consider seeking international arbitration over Beijing's drilling activities in the disputed East China Sea, mirroring similar action by the Philippines.
BEIJING--China's chief prosecutor said Sunday that battling "infiltration, subversion and sabotage by hostile forces" is a key priority this year, with terrorists, ethnic separatists and religious extremists all in his cross hairs.
Copyright The Asahi Shimbun Company. All rights reserved. No reproduction or republication without written permission.