2013-07~12
http://www.euroweeklynews.com/news/item/116866-china-security-chief-blames-uighur-islamists-for-tiananmen-attack

Euro Weekly News - Spain's largest FREE local newspaper in English
FEMALE tennis players "ride on the coattails of the men", this is according to Raymond More, the now ex, Indian Wells CEO. Moore stepped down after sparking outrage on Sunday...
The successful career of 1940’s screenwriter Dalton Trumbo (Bryan Cranston) comes to a crushing end when he and other Hollywood figures are blacklisted for their political beliefs. Trumbo (directed by...
THIS week the health and safety brigade finally lost it completely
WELL this week the ‘ealth n safety brigade finally lost it completely. They were actually suggesting that for safety’s sake...
SURELY odontophobia has to be up there amongst the nastiest, cruellest phobias known to man
YOU know how, some mornings, you wake up ready to take on the world, feeling invincible...
ABOUT 90 minutes after the explosions at Brussels airport, first details emerged of what could be a further bomb, this time at the Maalbeek metro station in central Brussels.
There is...
AT JUST after 8am on Tuesday March 22, two bombs apparently exploded at Brussels airport near an American Airways check in desk causing chaos and confusion.
First reports from Belgian broadcaster...
A FORTY-ONE-YEAR-OLD firefighter died in the Arroyo de la Miel neighbourhood of Benalmadena on Monday March 21 after falling from an industrial warehouse.
Emergency Services 112 received a phone call around...
AFTER three years walking the globe in a bid to document climate change, Malaga's Nacho Dean, 35, has finally returned home.
Arriving in Puerta del Sol...
ABOUT 90 minutes after the explosions at Brussels airport, first details emerged of what could be a further bomb, this time at the Maalbeek metro station in central Brussels.
There is...
AT JUST after 8am on Tuesday March 22, two bombs apparently exploded at Brussels airport near an American Airways check in desk causing chaos and confusion.
First reports from Belgian broadcaster...
A FORTY-ONE-YEAR-OLD firefighter died in the Arroyo de la Miel neighbourhood of Benalmadena on Monday March 21 after falling from an industrial warehouse.
Emergency Services 112 received a phone call around...
AFTER three years walking the globe in a bid to document climate change, Malaga's Nacho Dean, 35, has finally returned home.
Arriving in Puerta del Sol...
WORKERS in Spain are slowly feeling the benefits of the economic recovery according to new data released by the Spanish Government´s central statistic unit. After...
PRINCE HARRY has a new royal title; he has been crowned head of a Nepalese village. As part of a five day tour in Nepal,...
OVER the past 18 months I’ve had a great vantage point from behind the scenes to view, analyse and amaze at the unique way in which 137 nationalities cohabit in Marbella.    So many talented and diverse people have come through the radio and TV studios; all with something to... Read more
VARIOUS towns along the Costa del Sol suffered a cut to the electric supply this morning (March 21). Up to nine municipalities…
THIS spring is expected to have lower pollen levels than normal due to the lack of rain and constant changes in climate…
THANKS to spending of €400,000, Calle Los Algarrobos, which is located between the upper side of the Miramar area in Fuengirola and…
THE municipality of Altea has been gifted five plots of land. The land in the Alhama Springs urbanisation belongs to a couple identified by the town hall only as Mr and Mrs Caldwell.
Imma Orozco, councillor for Urban Development and acting mayor during the absence of  Mayor Jaume Llinares, and Public... Read more
A 300-YEAR-OLD olive tree has been replanted in Alfaz del Pi’s Plaza Juan Carlos I.
The olive, which stood for three centuries in…
THE seafront bicycle lane in Altea is appreciated by cyclists. Pedestrians are less overjoyed by the lane, which reduces the area where they…
MORE than 11,000 people enjoyed International Day at the Camilo Cano sports complex in La Nucia.
The 22 live performances from the 40…
CARTAGENA has welcomed their 1,000,000th cruise passenger.
The couple to take that honour were Mr and Mrs Young who arrived on the Ventura ship, which had over 3,000 passengers on board. As they disembarked, they were greeted by Antonio Sevilla, president of the Port Authority of Cartagena and Obdulia Gomez Bernal... Read more
THIRTY more speed traps are being planned for accident black spots on Alicante Province’s main roads.
The move by the General Directorate of…
The British Consulate team from Alicante have paid a visit to Help At Home Costa Blanca.
Vice Consuls Sara Munsterhjelm and Elizabeth Bell…
A GROUP of 40 Spanish lawyers gathered outside the Orihuela College of Lawyers in the early evening of Thursday March 17 to…
SEVENTEEN people in the Province of Almeria are being investigated by the Guardia Civil for their alleged involvement in illegal cock fights. 
The investigations began after a cockfighting underworld was detected, leading to a raid on a club in Viator, which was lined wall to wall with chicken coops and featured... Read more
Residents of an exclusive area in Mojacar are up in arms over the state of the roads in the area.
La Parata is…
THE lack of rainfall in the province of Almeria has been a huge issue for crop farmers recently, but it has also…
A FANTASTIC opportunity to get all the facts about life in Almeria
THE team at Free Lunch Spain have now supplied essential information…
GUARDIA CIVIL Officers have arrested a homeless man as the presumed perpetrator of nine burglaries that took place in the rural areas surrounding Nerja. 
The incidents occurred in various cottages and a vehicle in the Camino de Enmedio neighbourhood. One of the buildings was targeted on three separate... Read more
There’s no place like Nerja. Famed for its scenic beauty and the whimsical charm of its whitewashed houses and…
A NEW exhibition in Torre del Mar is aiming to get people thinking about what the planet means to…
Mayors, tourism councillors, private landlords, and real estate proprietors were just some of those in attendance at a meeting…
VOLUNTEERS who have been monitoring feline colonies in the city received special identification cards from the Palma City Council recognising their service.
The cards were given during a training day and debate held recently at the Son Reus Animal Protection Shelter.  More than 60 people attended the event including volunteers responsible... Read more
A MAN has been arrested for having 14 kilos of marihuana in an uninhabited country house in a rural area of Inca.
The…
Property owners who rent out their residences to tourists face even greater restrictions if hotel lobbyists have their way. A powerful group…
SIMON Manley, the British Ambassador, has thanked Gillian Brion, Vice-Consul to the Balearics, on her retirement after 25 years of service to…
FEMALE tennis players "ride on the coattails of the men", this is according to Raymond More, the now ex, Indian Wells CEO. Moore stepped down after sparking outrage on Sunday when he said that women players were very lucky to receive the same take-home winnings as the men. He also said that women pl...
More and more of Globelink’s clients are turning to cruises, and we’re delighted to cove...
Helle Hollis car rental is well-known for launching new initiatives. It was the first car rental com...
OPENED 16 years ago, the El Port Clinica Veterinaria has been part of the Altea scenery for quite so...
CHOOSING a cosmetic surgeon for any procedure is a personal thing. You need to find a surgeon who is...
HOLIDAYS are sacred, not least to us Brits. A recent travel industry survey showed that most of us w...
DEDICATE time and effort when making this important decision as not all offer the same service. Q. I...
THIS week the health and safety brigade finally lost it completely
WELL this week the ‘ealth n safety brigade finally lost it completely. They were actually suggesting that for safety’s sake, they wanted a total ban on tackling in the game of rugby! 
I’ll tell you what, why don’t we take that...
THE decision to join with Europe was political, not economic
I, OF course, am old enough to remember a…
THE USA election, political correctness gone mad and Tony Blackburn’s witch-hunt
SO much to say and so little space…
SURELY odontophobia has to be up there amongst the nastiest, cruellest phobias known to man
YOU know how, some mornings, you wake up ready to take on the world, feeling invincible, immortal and potentially omniscient? Well, yesterday wasn’t one of them. 
There’s a short preface to this tale. I’ve always had a...
THE Brexit debate has really unleashed open warfare amongst the Conservative party
GOOD grief! When are the kids going…
MAKES you wonder why all these daft obsolete laws haven’t been repealed, but the government is probably far…
LIKE almost everything nowadays, the real estate sector is strongly linked to new technologies. Apps by real estate companies, video descriptions of the properties and 3D glasses for visiting them virtually are currently part of the business.
But now, Google has reached an agreement with a real estate company to find...
TWO out of 10 homes in Spain have more contracted electric power than they actually need. As a…
THERE is no reason to be frightened in approaching a lender to finance the home of your dreams…
Subscribe our Email Newsletter to get Instant Update at anytime