2013-07~12
http://www.iol.co.za/news/world/xinjiang-attackers-sentenced-to-death-1.1577146

Xinjiang attackers sentenced to death | IOL
A court in China's far western region of Xinjiang sentenced three men to death, and handed a 25-year prison term to a fourth, after convicting them of killing 24 people in a terrorist attack, state media said on Friday.
The leader of the group, Ahmatniyaz Sidiq, was sentenced to death on Thursday for “organising, leading and participating in a terrorist organisation,” as well as murder and arson, the official Xinhua news agency said.
Sidiq led a group of 13 men in the attack on a police station, government offices and a market on June 26 in Xinjiang's Lukqun township, the agency quoted prosecutors as saying.
The group had “advocated and spread religious extremism, (and) watched violence-inciting videos from foreign terrorist organisations,” it said.
The report did not say what happened to the other nine members of the group, but an earlier Xinhua report said police shot dead 11 of the attackers.
State broadcaster China Central television said the group had 17 members. - Sapa-dpa
PM Charles Michel said that the "blind, violent and cowardly" attacks in Brussels were a "black day" for the country.
Unidentified attackers hacked a Christian convert to death in northern Bangladesh, amid growing attacks on religious minorities.
At least 15 people, including two women, died in a southern Pakistani town after drinking tainted liquor, police said.
A 16-year-old schoolgirl was set to be charged with raising money to support the Islamic State group, Australian police said.
Syria's peace talks hit a fresh impasse over President Bashar al-Assad, as the head of Hezbollah vowed to keep fighting alongside the regime.
"Shots were fired and there were shouts in Arabic" shortly before the blasts at Brussels airport that claimed up to 10 people. [VIDEO]
A Texas mother accused of putting her two-year-old daughter in the oven has been charged.
An explosion was reportedly heard at Maelbeek metro station in Brussels, close to the EU institutions.