2013-07~12
http://english.samaylive.com/world-news/676532411/chinese-uygurs-trained-in-pakistan-terror-camps-to-fight-aginst-assad.html

Chinese Uygurs trained in Pakistan terror camps to fight aginst Assad
Serbia's Novak Djokovic decisively beat Canada's Milos Raonic 6-2, 6-0 in just an hour and
A number of Uygur Muslims from China's volatile Xinjiang province are being trained in Pakistan-based militant camps and then sent to Syria to fight against President Bashar al-Assad regime, the Syrian envoy here has said.
"Our informant told us around 30 young Uyghur men went to Pakistan to receive military training and then went to Turkey," Syrian Ambassador to China Imad Moustapha told state-run Global Times today.
"Our estimate is that there are around 30 Chinese involved. We believe the reason they went to Turkey after training in Pakistan is to go to Syria. Most probably, they are now fighting in the northern city of Aleppo but we're not sure about this," he said.
Significantly his allegations carried in Chinese state media comes just ahead of Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's five day visit here beginning July 4. The issue will figure in Chinese leaders talks with Sharif as one such militant was captured in Xinjiang recently.
His capture took place amid large-scale violence in the province bordering Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. China believes Western media are encouraging "terrorism" in Xinjiang by misrepresenting violence in the region and the militants operating there are linked to some Syrian Islamist rebel groups who are allied to al-Qaeda.
 "What we know for sure is they were trained in Pakistan and then travelled to Turkey. Our informant who is based in one military camp in Pakistan told us there are 30 of them,but that doesn't mean there are not more of them," the Syrian Ambassador said.
Memeti Aili, an Uygur who fought in Syria, was recently arrested on return. He plotted to "carry out violent attack and improve fighting skills" from East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a separatist group fighting in Xinjiang.
ETIM is a terrorist group that aims to create an Islamist state in Xinjiang, the Global Times report said. A Chinese anti-terrorism official told the daily that about 100 people like Memeti Aili had travelled to Syria to join the fighting alongside Syrian rebels since last year.
"Their purpose is to overcome their fears, improve their fighting skills and gain experience in carrying out terror attacks," according to the official who declined to be named.
super luxury car maker Rolls-Royce is gearing up to tap the country's Billionaires with ne
Coming-of-age drama 'Boyhood' won three of the biggest awards at the BAFTA 2015 but it was
Sunny Leone is seen scorching the screen in the first look of Leela with her bold acts.
Samsung unveiled the Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, S
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian reportedly wants Beyonce to buy a house in her gated commun
Automaker Renault India today said it will roll-out a multi-purpose vehicle 'Lodgy' and a
Pharma tycoon Dilip Shanghvi surpassed Mukesh Ambani as the world's richest Indian with a
When Holi is round the corner, can anyone forget all-time hit Bollywood songs?
In an interim order, the Bombay High Court has restrained the city police from arresting o
Good news for the fans’ of Salman Khan and Deepika Padukone.
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian has posed nude for the upcoming 10th season of 'Keeping Up
Bollywood superstar Akshay Kumar and Actress cum Entrepreneur Shilpa Shetty Kundra have pa
Kashmir witnessed season's heaviest snowfall as the arterial Jammu-Srinagar National Highw
Mexican actress Stephanie Sigman has joined Monica Bellucci and Lea Seydoux as the new bon
Luxury carmaker Mercedes-Benz launched the all-new compact B-Class in both petrol and dies
Bollywood actor Poonam Pandey, gets relief as a local court in Bengaluru quashed a case pe
Automaker Renault India launched the new generation Duster priced at Rs 8.30 lakh (Delhi e
Now Bollywood A-list actors are competing to get nude on-screen.
The 2015 edition of the International Indian Film Academy Awards is set to enthrall Bollyw


India defeated Zimbabwe by six wickets chasing 288 runs target in World Cup Match.
Short filmmaker Ullhas PR on Monday filed a police complaint against Bollywood superstar A
This original video of the old man doing stunts behind the scene.

Tech giant Apple stunned its rivals by launching a cheaper yet powerful iPhone SE the “