2013-07~12
http://www.caspionet.kz/en/view/world_news/page_39477_police-shoot-dead-8-during-terrorist-attack-in-china-s-xinxiang

Kazakh TV - World

 Two explosions have struck the departures area of Zaventem airport in Brussels.

 The second largest city of Mosul in Iraq has been in the grip of ISIS insurgents since 2014.

 Illegal migrants all over Europe have started celebrating Nauryz.

 Open letter calls on education secretary Nicky Morgan to include autism in revised teacher training framework.

 The football match between the Turkish teams "Fenerbahce" and "Galatasaray" was canceled due to the threat of a terrorist attack.

 A suicide bomber detonated an explosive in the center of Istanbul along the Istiklal Street in Taksim Square.

 The second black box was found at the FlyDubai Boeing 737-800 crash site in Rostov-on-Don.

 The FBI is investigating a cyber heist where the attackers managed to steal over $80 million from Bangladesh's central bank.

 Paris attacks suspect Salah Abdeslam has been wounded and arrested in a dramatic raid in Brussels after four months on the run.

 A manned spacecraft with new ISS crew members has set off from the Baikonur space launch facility.

 A passenger jet has crashed in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-Don with at least 55 passengers and six crew on board.

 At the summit in Brussels, leaders of the 28 EU countries have finally come to a common position.

 New York court sentenced the native of Yemen Mufid Elf-Ki to 22 years and six months imprisonment.

 Foreigners will have to disclose water interests in Australia as world’s soaring demand for food fuels.

 Cambodia's Prime Minister has denied buying fake likes for his Facebook page.

 Pakistan's former military ruler Pervez Musharraf has arrived in Dubai for medical treatment.

 EU leaders have agreed on a common position to present to Turkey on Friday on how to stem the flow of migrants to Europe.

 Troubled Japanese conglomerate Toshiba saw shares rise 4% after selling its medical equipment unit to Canon for nearly $6bn.

 "There are no whole number solutions to the equation xn + yn = zn when n is greater than 2."

 Four people have been arrested in the Paris area as part of a wider investigation into a possible plot to attack France
Share of women in SME sector in Kazakhstan totals more than 40%
Volume of corporate deposits in STBS of Kazakhstan total 9 trillion Tenge