2013-07~12
http://news.antiwar.com/2013/07/01/china-blames-syrian-rebels-for-last-weeks-violence-in-xinjiang/

China Blames Syrian Rebels for Last Week’s Violence in Xinjiang -- News from Antiwar.com
China has long had trouble keeping the ethnic Uighur population of the eastern Xinjiang region in check, so last week’s knife attack against a police station wasn’t exactly unprecedented. Still, Chinese officials felt the need to blame someone, and that’s Syria’s rebels.
Incredible as it may seen, China’s state media claims that fighters from the long-standing East Turkestan secessionist faction managed to travel all the way to Turkey and join the Syrian rebellion, where they were given training and sent back to China to carry out attacks.
Overseas Uighurs call the claim unrealistic, noting that it’s next to impossible for Uighurs to even get a passport, let alone make it all the way to Turkey and Syria. Though it isn’t unprecedented for East Turkestan fighters to turn up abroad, it is usually in neighboring Afghanistan or Pakistan, and it’s hard to imagine how they’d get all the way to Turkey without documentation.
And that’s just half of the problem. Leaving China is basically a one-way proposition for Uighurs, and even those illegally kidnapped and dragged across the border, as with some sold to the US after the 2001 invasion of Afghanistan, getting back into China after being overseas is incredibly hard, and most end up having to find political asylum abroad.
This isn’t an entirely new claim, as China has accused Turkey in the past of “recruiting” Uighurs to join the Syrian Islamist rebels and accused al-Qaeda of facilitating their travel, it is hard to see how such fighters could ever get back to China afterwards and carry out an attack.
Is interesting that each and every time something like this happens one way or other these Islamists are said to be involved, in USA, Syria, Iraq or China or India or Pakistan or Afghanistan.., who pays for their costs of arming them and who pays for training, who pays for their travel and etc. at the same time I wonder why the Oil prices keeps going up and up.., it is not because more cars are sold or a new railroad are built or there is a shortage in Oil production…, is it? One thing is for sure.., Oil companies making a record profit by the billions.., I wonder how much Saudis or UAE are making…?
We know the CIA and its proxies mainly Turkey having been supporting Turkic Islamic separatists/militants in Eurasia especially in Chechnya but also in China.
As for passports they travel on forged illegal ones with oversight from the regimes in Turkey, the US and EU.
Today's Uighurs move in and out of China freely all the time. Of course, they will need a Chinese passport to pass through border check.
Why unrealistic? We know that all Uighurs that were freed up from Guantanamo were placed in Albania — as we claim they would be prosecuted in China. All these were captured in Afghanistan.
Today, Albania and Kosovo are the centers of training and distribution of crazed Salafi sects to all destinations where we need some trouble. Syrian "rebels" came to Kosovo for "consultations' on methods of fighting, primarili to learn from KLA methods of terrorizing own population to force them to join, and blaming the government forces. Worked well in Kosovo. Today, the Iranian terrorists have been moved from Iraq to Albania. GENEROUS funds have been poured into Kosovo to take over all former Turkish Sufi communities, and turn them over to Salafists. They are all MOBILE, HAVE PASSPORTS, MONEY, ARMS, TRAINING CAMPS AND SANCTUARIES. Curtesy of the West. This is not a secret. It is hidden in plain sight.
What if we (?) just blamed the Tibeteans instead, wouldn’t that be “cheaper” , we better axe the duff man, huh