2013-07~12
http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2013/10/23/world/china-defends-record-at-u-n-human-rights-council-others-beg-to-differ/

China defends record at U.N. Human Rights Council; others beg to differ | The Japan Times
GENEVA – China defended its human rights record to the U.N. on Tuesday, insisting it was abiding by its obligations, but activists urged an end to crackdowns on dissidents and minorities.
China’s envoy, Wu Hailong, acknowledged his country still faced “challenges” but told the U.N. Human Rights Council it had lived up to pledges made when it was last scrutinized by the watchdog.
In 2009, the council urged Beijing to do more to reduce poverty, introduce judicial and political reforms and respect the rights of ethnic minorities.
“The above recommendations either have been implemented or are being carried out, and our commitment has been basically fulfilled,” Wu said.
But he acknowledged that China still “faces many difficulties and challenges in promoting and protecting human rights.”
All 193 U.N. member states are meant to undergo four-yearly reviews of their rights record.
In the run-up to China’s review, campaigners and Western officials raised the alarm about the disappearance of Chinese activist Cao Shunli, who had been due in Geneva.
Her whereabouts is still unknown, said Sharon Hom, executive director of the U.S.-based Human Rights in China, who accused Beijing of “mouthing openness to criticism” without genuinely acknowledging failings.
China’s ruling Communist Party has pulled millions of people out of poverty thanks to strong economic growth, but critics say political reforms have not kept up with economic advances.
U.S.-based Human Rights Watch urged China to demonstrate its commitment to human rights by ending harassment, arbitrary arrests and torture of activists.
“China is good about signing human rights treaties, but terrible about putting them into practice,” said its China director, Sophie Richardson.
Human Rights Watch also urged Beijing to improve media freedom and halt abuses against its Tibetan and Muslim Uighur ethnic minorities.
About 120 ethnic Tibetans have set themselves on fire in China since 2009 to protest Chinese rule of Tibetan areas.
Rights groups blame religious repression and cultural erosion, while Beijing says it has brought massive investment to the relatively undeveloped region.
Pema Yoko, deputy director of Students for a Free Tibet, on Tuesday rejected Wu’s claims and said it was normal for China to “blatantly lie.”
Chimey Nelung, spokesman for the Tibetan Youth Association in Europe, said it was crucial for the international community to “confront the Chinese about their human rights situation.”
At the review, U.S. delegate Uzra Zeya spotlighted the harassment, detention and punishment of human rights activists and their relatives.
“We are concerned that China suppresses freedoms of assembly, association, religion and expression, including on the Internet,” she said.
Defending China’s record, Wu pointed out that the number of crimes carrying the death penalty had been reduced.
China has halved its number of executions since 2007, but still puts an estimated 4,000 people to death every year.
Hanns Schumacher, Germany’s ambassador, and other European delegates welcomed that move, but said it was time to impose at least a moratorium on capital punishment.
“Enormous economic progress and many legal improvements protecting the right of individuals in China go hand in hand,” said Schumacher.
“We encourage China to continue on this path,” he added, calling for legal reforms to protect freedom of expression, abolish labor camps and protect minority rights.
Western ambassadors also urged China to sign an international accord on civil and political rights and allow U.N. human rights monitors to visit Tibetan and Uighur areas.
Four Tibetan activists hammered their message home by scaling scaffolding on the U.N. building in Geneva and unfurling a massive banner reading: “China Fails Human Rights, U.N. stand up for Tibet.”
U.N security swiftly cut down the banner and arrested the protesters, but also grabbed journalists’ press passes and ushered them away.
“The Chinese government must answer for its brutality and atrocities in Tibet,” exiled monk Sungjang Rinpoche said.
Uighur exile Omar Kanat, meanwhile, complained about China’s broad-brush use of the “terrorist” label for activists from his Muslim community and slammed restrictions on religious and cultural freedoms.
He said he feared that Beijing was pushing the Uighurs to “rise up,” and thereby create an excuse for an even harsher crackdown.
Wu Hailong must make a pachyderm look thin-skinned by comparison. The Chinese government is probably the only one in the world that spends more on internal security and surveillance than it does on national defence. And it selectively upholds its own constitution – Article 35 guarantees that citizens enjoy freedom of speech, of the press, of assembly, of association and of demonstration.” Mr Wu should try explaining that to Xu Zhiyong and Wang Gongquan of the New Citizen Movement, who have been arrested for doing no more than asking the government to rule justly and to uphold the constitution.