2013-07~12
http://www.metalbulletin.com/Article/3255218/Channel/195220/Cost-pressures-confront-Chinas-emerging-aluminium-hub-Xinjiang.html

Cost pressures confront China’s emerging aluminium hub Xinjiang | Metal Bulletin.com

 COPYING AND DISTRIBUTING ARE PROHIBITED WITHOUT THE PERMISSION OF THE PUBLISHER

Track, chart, compare and export 950+ global metal, steel and scrap prices with Metal Bulletin's pricing analysis tool.
Find all your saved comparisons here. Compare up to five different prices over a selected period of time in Price Book.
Find all your bookmarked prices here. To bookmark a price click on the ‘Add to my saved prices’ icon in Price Book.
MB Apex contains leader boards of analysts based upon the accuracy of their most recent price predictions.
A complete list of all Metal Bulletin's metal, steel and scrap prices, contained within our pricing analysis tool, Price Book.
Get Metal Bulletin’s pricing data delivered directly to your spread sheet or integrated within your internal ERP/workflow.
The Metal Bulletin archives cover historical news and pricing data going back to 1997.
Download the latest Daily for news from the last 24 hours plus all Metal Bulletin prices, and the magazine for feature articles, market analysis and high-profile interviews.

 The rise of China’s Xinjiang province as a hub for aluminium production may be challenged in the coming years by increasing transport and labour costs, and its difficult geographical location, market participants said.

Once a comparatively small cog in China’s
 aluminium production, northwest China's Xinjiang has emerged as
 a very significant location for producers this year, with a
 rate of growth behind only Henan province. In the first eight
 months of 2013, Xinjiang’s aluminium output
 accounted for 10% of China’s total production, up
 from 4% last year. Its contribution is expected to rise further
 before the end of this year, with about 1 million-tonnes of new
 capacity expected to come online. "Xinjiang is [a dark horse]
 as its aluminium output rose quickly thanks to new capacity,"
 Wang Rong, an analyst at Guotai Junan Futures in Shanghai,
 said. The low power costs that the province enjoys, however,
 may rise as more smelters come on stream, while other costs
 also climb. Smelters...
Discover what Metal Bulletin has to offer with a FREE 7 day trial:
Subscribe now to get full access to Metal Bulletin, including:

NORTH AMERICAN MORNING BRIEF 22/03: Manganese suppliers renege; Hazelwood Resources name change; MJP aluminium premiums


EUROPEAN MORNING BRIEF 22/03: Garry Jones interview; Orbite production pushback; Hazelwood alloys portfolio


ASIAN MORNING BRIEF 22/03: China’s cobalt imports; alumina rally slows; Tudor leaving Citi


NORTH AMERICAN MORNING BRIEF 21/03: China copper imports; Nickel Asia earnings fall; manganese ore prices rise


EUROPEAN MORNING BRIEF 21/03: Copper prices rise again; the week ahead; Las Bambas copper reaches China


17th Asian Ferroalloys Conference

 Singapore, Singapore

 22 Mar 16 - 24 Mar 16


AMM & WSD Steel Success Strategies XXXI

 New York, United States

 13 Jun 16 - 15 Jun 16


8th World Lead Conference



 30 Mar 16 - 31 Mar 16


4th International Nickel Conference

 London, United Kingdom

 11 May 16 - 12 May 16


MagMin 2016

 Düsseldorf, Germany 

 13 Apr 16 - 15 Apr 16


20th Zinc & its Markets Seminar

 Madrid, Spain

 09 May 16 - 11 May 16

You can enter a maximum of 5 recipients. Use ; to separate email addresses.
By signing up to this free newsletter you agree to receive occasional emails from us informing you about our products and services. You can opt out of these emails at any time.

 ALL MATERIAL SUBJECT TO STRICTLY ENFORCED COPYRIGHT LAWS.© EUROMONEY GLOBAL LIMITED
