2013-07~12
http://www.theage.com.au/world/fatal-crash-looks-like-attack-20131029-2wdzx.html

Fatal crash 'looks like attack'
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News, My Clippings, My Comments and user settings.
Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.

 Smoke raises in front of the main entrance of the Forbidden City at Tiananmen Square in Beijing after the crash. Photo: Reuters

Chinese police are investigating whether a fiery car crash that killed five people and injured dozens was linked with suspects from the country's restive Xinjiang region, with mounting evidence pointing to a deliberate suicide attack.
Police issued a notice late on Monday ordering Beijing hotels to check records for a 42-year-old and 25-year-old from Pishan and Shanshan counties in the far western province, in connection with an unspecified ''major incident''.
While official channels have restricted details of the case, and sensitive online posts about the incident are being swiftly removed by censors, a state security source with knowledge of the investigation told Fairfax Media at least two of the car's dead occupants were Uighurs - a predominantly Muslim ethnic minority - from Xinjiang.

 Chinese microblogging site Weibo showed photos such as this of a closed Tiananmen Square after the crash. Photo: Weibo

The source said there were suspicions the incident was connected with terrorist activity, but it was not yet confirmed.
Another source with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters that it "looks like a premeditated suicide attack".
Numerous witness accounts suggest the driver of the white four-wheel-drive had steered off the road and onto the footpath for more than 400 metres, honking the car horn to warn pedestrians, before crashing into a pillar almost directly under the portrait of Mao Zedong, which hangs over the main gate of Tiananmen Square.
''This was not some driver who took a wrong turn and accidentally ended up on the sidewalk,'' one witness told The New York Times.
''The car did not swerve to avoid people, but navigated around obstacles that would have stopped it reaching the Tiananmen Gate,'' another told The Times of London.
The crash, which occurred shortly after noon local time on Monday, killed the driver and both passengers, as well as two pedestrians - a Filipina woman and a man from China's southern Guangdong province.
The notice circulated by police said the suspects possessed four different number plates, and a ''light-coloured'' four-wheel-drive.
The state security source could not say whether the multiple number plates suggested there was a chance of further attacks. ''We don't know if any others are involved at this stage,'' he said.
A Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman declined to respond to a question about whether it had been a terrorist attack.
China has warned of growing religious extremism among Uighurs in Xinjiang. At least 35 people - Uighurs and Han Chinese - died in a series of bloody riots in the region in June, and ethnic tensions have bubbled in the region for years.
Police arrested 139 people between June and August this year for ''spreading religious extremism including jihad'' online.
Beijing has pointed to violent incidents to indicate a rising militant threat, while Uighur organisations complain of cultural and religious oppression.
At least 38 people were reported injured in Tiananmen Square on Monday, including three other Philippines nationals and one Japanese man. The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade said no Australians were involved.
''I heard the car's horn honking, but I noticed it too late,'' one injured Filipina woman named Francesca told the Southern Metropolis Daily. ''My mind went completely blank, and when I gained consciousness again I was on the ground.''

 Compare variable home loan rates from as low as 3.99% p.a. now

 Plus No Account Fees + No Minimum Deposit with RaboDirect Savings Account

 Compare and save on 0% p.a. balance transfer credit cards now

 All Galaxy S7 plans from all major telcos available now

 Grab a bargain on one of the year's best phones