2013-07~12
http://en-maktoob.news.yahoo.com/deaths-assault-china-police-station-055518717.html

Deaths in assault on China police station
An assault on a police station in the northwestern region of Xinjiang has left eleven dead, according to the local government, in the latest of a series of attacks pointing to growing unrest in the area.
Two auxiliary police officers and nine attackers were killed in the incident on Saturday afternoon, the Xinjiang regional government said in a statement posted on its microblog on Sunday.
It said the assailants used axes and knives in the attack in Bachu county's Serikbuya township, near the historic city of Kashgar, adding that two police officers were injured in the clash.
No further information was given about the attack. The Chinese government has been blaming recent attacks on "terrorists" from the Xinjiang Uighurs ethnic group.
But Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the World Uighur Congress, a Munich-based advocacy group, said the Uighurs were protesting on Sunday and that armed Chinese personnel were to blame for the violence.
He said in an email that besides the deaths, "several tens" of Uighur demonstrators were arrested.
"I again call on international society to take emergency measures to stop the Chinese government from directly opening fire to suppress Uighur protesters and depriving them of using legal appeals and defending their rights," he added.
Activists say despair over economic and social discrimination as well as cultural and religious restrictions are fueling anger among Uighurs.
The latest reported incident comes at a time of heightened tensions within Xinjiang following a fiery attack in Beijing's Tiananmen Square last month that the government blamed on "terrorists" from the province backed by some international Islamic groups.
Three Xinjiang Uighurs drove their car loaded with petrol canisters into the gate of the Forbidden City on October 28. The attack left two dead besides the three people in the car, and 40 injured, according to Chinese police. Beijing blamed Uighur separatists backed by armed Islamic groups, but the authorities have not provided any evidence to support this assertion, which has raised doubts among experts, given the amateurish nature of the attack and the lack of an established Islamic extremist foothold in China.
At least 21 people have been killed after two explosions ripped through Zaventem Airport in Brussels in an apparent suicide attack - and a third blast hit a city metro station. Shots were fired and Arabic shouted before the airport bomb blasts, according to Belgian news agency Belga. Maalbeek metro station was targeted in a separate attack during the morning rush hour.
A murder probe has been launched after a woman's body was found at a village property.
You have the power to prevent blindness in kids like Mutesi just by getting your vitamins at Walgreens.
Hundreds of rabbis either boycotted or stood as Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump began to speak at a pro-Israel conference and walked out to protest his "hate and bigotry" that hold troubling reminders for them of the Holocaust. Obama "may be the worst thing ever to happen to Israel," he said during his 25-minute speech. An Orthodox rabbi in a prayer shawl seated near the front was forced out by security moments after he shouted out once Trump began speaking in the Verizon Center in Washington DC where the conference for the powerful American Israel Public Affairs Committee lobby was held.
The young mother who has lost her husband, two children, mother and sister has said her surviving baby is her reason to live.
A single mother has been arrested after she allegedly placed her toddler daughter inside a hot oven. Tasha Hatcher reportedly gave no reason for her actions, which left the two-year-old with second and third degree burns. Police were called to the 35-year-old’s home in Glen Rose, Texas, where witnesses say Hatcher had placed the girl inside the oven.
See how your credit usage impacts your credit. Check it now for free with the only interactive Credit Report. No credit card required.
London mayor Boris Johnson, the leading figure in the campaign for Britain to leave the European Union, said embattled finance minister George Osborne's now abandoned welfare cuts were a mistake. Prime Minister David Cameron's ruling Conservative Party, already divided over EU membership, was plunged into chaos over the weekend after a senior minister quit over the cuts to disability benefits known as Personal Independence Payments(PIP). The resignation of eurosceptic Iain Duncan Smith has piled pressure on Cameron and Osborne who are at the forefront of the campaign for Britain to remain in the EU.
A flight attendant who had been selected for random screening at Los Angeles International Airport reportedly fled the terminal, leaving her shoes and 30kg of cocaine, officials said on 21 March. The incident occurred when the flight attendant was sent to a secondary screening area, said Marshal McClain, president of the Los Angles Airport Peace Officers Association. A senior government official told ABC News that the woman was wearing "street clothes" and had approached the "known crew member lane" before being moved by the TSA to an inspection area.
BT must "significantly" cut prices charged for high-speed lines through its Openreach arm and improve business services under detailed plans outlined by the communications watchdog.
Don't buy a new PC or call a repair company before reading this. Simple "3 click Fix" will have your computer running like new again.
The FBI says it may have found a way to break into an iPhone used by one of the San Bernardino attackers, without the help of tech giant Apple. Apple has refused to unlock the phone, thought to contain evidence relating to the massacre , resulting in a fierce legal battle between the two sides. In a filing late on Monday, federal prosecutors said "an outside party" had come forward over the weekend with a possible method for unlocking Syed Rizwan Farook's encrypted phone.
Newcastle United have "virtually nothing left" in the bank, according to owner Mike Ashley. And the controversial Sports Direct owner said "don't come crying to me" to when it is all gone. The Magpies are in a perilous position, staring relegation from the Premier League in the face with eight games left following Sunday's 1-1 draw with Sunderland.
Flight FZ981 from Dubai crashed near its destination at Rostov-On-Don airport in Russia on Saturday morning. Miss Sergeeva worked as a beautician in Dubai, where she lived for the past six months. Miss Sergeeva posted an image about four months ago of her flight ticket, saying: “I am going home for one week”.
Just type in a Name and select a State.. Then brace yourself for what you might find on you or anyone else!
The 21-year-old woman has now been given a bravery award for defending herself with her house keys. Describing the woman’s actions, Supt Green added: ‘The horrifying assault culminated in the woman being forced into a nearby hedge while the male tried to get on top of her, groping her and telling her “you’re going to enjoy this”.
The Duchess of Cambridge has revealed the present she gave the Queen for Christmas when she first stayed at Sandringham over the festive period - a jar of home-made chutney.
The Scottish Ambulance Service declared the crash - which happened at around 2.15pm close to the Rowan Tree Restaurant - a "major incident". The collision, on a stretch of road between Ardrossan and Seamill, involved a service 585 bus from Greenock to Ayr operated by the Stagecoach group.
If you are not eating these 16 secret weapons yet, you should be. Click here to see the top 16 disease-fighting foods.
By Liz Hampton and Devika Krishna Kumar HOUSTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - A dreaded scenario for U.S. oil bulls might just be becoming a reality. Some U.S. shale oil producers, including Oasis Petroleum and Pioneer Natural Resources Co , are activating drilled but uncompleted wells (DUCs) in a reversal in strategy that threatens to bring more crude to a saturated market and dampen any sustained rebound in prices. When oil prices started their long slide in mid-2014, many producers kept drilling wells, but halted expensive fracking work that brings them online, waiting for prices to bounce back.
Tesco, Britain's biggest supermarket chain, launched a new range of own-label fresh produce, poultry and meat on Monday, stepping up its fightback against German discounters Aldi and Lidl. The seven new "farm" brands will consist of 76 new lines that will either match the price of competitors or beat them, Tesco said. Where there is duplication, the new products will replace Tesco's existing entry point "Everyday Value" range.
Holly Willoughby is stunned by two identical twins who share EVERYTHING:
Homeowners who have not missed a payment in 3 years are in for a big surprise...
Footballer Ched Evans's conviction for raping a 19-year-old woman is to be reviewed by leading judges on Tuesday.
Barely three months after getting the green light to take off, Malaysia's first Syariah-compliant airline Rayani Air has flown into turbulence. It is now under investigation by Malaysia's Transport Ministry for issuing handwritten boarding passes. Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai told reporters that having handwritten boarding passes could be a potential security threat.
Hulk Hogan has been awarded a further $25m (£17.3m) in punitive damages just days after Gawker Media was ordered to pay $115m (£79.5m) for posting a sex tape of the celebrity wrestler online. A Florida jury ordered Gawker to pay Hogan an additional $15m (£10.4m) in punitive damages, while Gawker publisher Nick Denton was slapped with $10m (£6.9m) in damages. Hogan was awarded $115m (£79.5m) last week after a Florida jury found Gawker violated his privacy by publishing a video of him having sex with his former best friend's wife in 2012.
United States drivers are stunned that they never knew this. If you drive less than 50 mi/day, you better read this...
By MacDonald Dzirutwe HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe's plan to win back international funding by paying compensation to white farmers forced off their land faces a major snag: the black farmers expected to stump up the cash say they don't have it. "Most of the farmers face viability issues, the government will have to look at other ways of raising money," he added.
China said on Tuesday it had lodged a formal protest with Japan over new Japanese school text books which it said distorted the history of Japanese atrocities in China and reasserted a Japanese claim to a group of disputed islands. China, the world's second-largest economy, and Japan, the third-largest, have a difficult history, with relations strained by the legacy of Japan's aggression before and during World War Two and conflicting claims over a group of uninhabited East China Sea islets. Japanese media say some of the textbooks approved for use from April 2017 describe the disputed islands as being inherently part of Japan.
Davina McCall set Twitter alight after adjusting her pants during a live TV show:
Don't use the internet in the U.S until you've seen the truth about Online ID protection & anonymity CNN calling this "A game changer for all..
Police investigating the disappearance of 15-year-old Paige Doherty say they have found a body. Police Scotland say the body, found in a wooded area of the town, has not been formally identified. Friends and family launched a missing persons appeal after she failed to turn up at the hairdressers where she worked.
The head of the EU borders agency Frontex has told Sky News exclusively a roadmap is in place which he hopes will halt the migration crisis. But Fabrice Leggeri admits there are "challenges" with the deal. It comes after Sky's Mark Stone found several officials in Lesbos on Sunday, including one who worked for the UN's refugee agency, who had not been given details of how to implement the deal on the ground.
Raul Castro has hosted Barack Obama and the first lady Michelle Obama for a state dinner at Havana's Palace of the Revolution. They were joined by senior White House staff and several members of Congress. But the Cuban President looked annoyed when asked about political prisoners, telling journalists to "give him a list" and then they would be released "tonight".
Simplify the process of revealing personal information that may be beyond what can be found by Googling. Try searching someone you know or yourself.
Norwegian oil group Statoil is planning to store energy from a Scottish floating wind farm on a powerful battery storage system
A horse racing fan from North Yorkshire could be the oldest person in the world with Down’s Syndrome. Joe Sanderson celebrated his 80th birthday on Saturday, even though doctors told his mother he wouldn’t live past 21. Mr Sanderson lives at Hazelgrove Court nursing home, in Saltburn, Cleveland, and is a Hull City supporter and avid horse racing fan.
Davitt Walsh swam into Buncrana harbour in County Donegal on Sunday night in an attempt to rescue six people trapped in an Audi Q7 which plummeted off a slipway. He said the infant's father, Sean McGrotty, 46, passed the baby through the smashed driver's side window just moments before the vehicle sank. Mr McGrotty died in the car alongside his two sons Mark, 12, and Evan, eight, his mother-in-law Ruth Daniels, 57, and her daughter Jodie Lee Daniels, 14.
U.S & Canadian citizens making huge monthly salaries after new company goes viral. Experts calling it "The Best Way To Supplement Your Income Since..
The average asking price for a house rose above £300,000 for the first time, according to the latest data from Rightmove.
Vivien Leigh's personal belongings, including diaries and love letters to her husband Laurence Olivier, are to go on display for the first time. The collection, which has not been exhibited publicly before, contains more than 100 pieces from the Gone With The Wind actress' archive, including costumes, sketches, photographs and scripts. It was purchased by London's Victoria and Albert museum from the double Oscar-winning star's grandchildren last year on the centenary of her birth.
Goldman Sachs will takeover of the online deposit platform of GE Capital
Renowned investors David and Tom Gardner are scheduled to reveal their next great stock ideas. It pays to listen when these guys give out stock tips.
International demand for German goods had long kept the country largely insulated from external shocks including the slowdown in Chinese growth and other emerging markets as well as geopolitical tensions...
The San Antonio Spurs delivered perhaps the first eye-opening win over the Golden State Warriors this season on Saturday night. The Spurs won ugly, beating the Warriors and marking the first loss they have had to another top-five team this year. While it's foolish to draw concrete conclusions from one game, the Spurs seemed to once again demonstrate the one formula for beating the Warriors: muck it up.
Serge Dassault is France's fourth wealthiest person, with a net worth estimated at 13.6 billion euros ($15.3 billion) last year by Forbes magazine
This new military grade laser is unbelievably powerful, and can be seen from 1/2 mile away! These are selling out extremely fast though, grab one now.
By John O'Donnell FRANKFURT (Reuters) - The top 10 percent of Germans have almost 60 percent of the wealth, a study by the central bank found on Monday, laying bare a wide gap between the richest and the poorest in Europe's biggest economy. Although Germany is known for its post-war social market economy, which established a generous welfare state alongside pro-industrial policies, the Bundesbank found that half the population had little or no wealth. The Bundesbank identified rising property prices as driving wealth for those who own it, while those who rent, as many Germans do, were falling behind.
By Barani Krishnan NEW YORK (Reuters) - Oil prices rose about 1 percent on Monday after data showed crude inventories at the Cushing, Oklahoma delivery hub for U.S. futures fell for the first time since January, and ahead of the expiration of the U.S. front-month contract. Oil's upside, however, was limited by concerns that U.S. energy companies could ramp up drilling again after a two-month long recovery in crude prices, analysts said. Brent crude futures for May delivery , the front-month, settled up 34 cents, or 0.8 percent, at $41.54 (28.8 pounds) a barrel.
United States drivers are surprised that they never knew this. If you drive less than 50 mi/day, you better read this...
It is hoped to be used for surveillance, communications and even passenger travel.
A pair of extra-long fangs that that hang out of his mouth has given Rory the cat an unfortunate resemblance to Count Dracula. The four-year-old cat was dumped at Battersea Cat and Dogs home earlier this month – by owners who had bought him online just two weeks before. Vets discovered that Rory needed mayor surgery on his jaw – because his teeth were stopping him from closing his mouth properly.
People walk past kiosks in an underground passage in Moscow on November 30, 2015
Looking for new cars under $15,000 can be hard. Thankfully, Yahoo Search has a comprehensive list of resources for the best car deals.
Madonna and ex-husband Guy Ritchie should try to settle a trans-Atlantic legal dispute over the future of their 15-year-old son Rocco and focus on enjoying what is left of his "precious" childhood, a High Court judge in London has said.
Enda Kenny has said he will never forget the chilling eyewitness accounts of the Buncrana pier tragedy.
Zayn Malik has already put everything out there in his new solo music, and now he’s holding nothing back about his time as a member of one direction. The singer revealed everything he could not do as a One D bandmate.
Enter any name & dig up tons of details about anyone's past. Anyone can access this information and see what some may be hiding!
British Airways (BA) is all set to change its economy fare structure. The move is aimed to make BA's fares simpler and more attractive against competitors like easyJet. It is also aimed at giving more benefits to its economy passengers who decide to pay for their check- in luggage as they would be able to change tickets without paying an extra fee, under the new structure. This is a step forward from the previous two-type fare structure which was more complex and included the options of hand baggage only or checked bag.
By mid-morning, Lobsang's leather cowboy hat is askew, his black robes dishevelled, and his breath stinks of booze. Once a nomad herder roaming the high Tibetan plateau, instead he stumbles around his sparse new concrete house.
This startup features big names like Coach, SmashBox, and Kate Spade - and unlike Amazon, Gilt or HauteLook it's fast, fun and really exciting.
Actress and voice of Judy Hopps Ginnifer Goodwin attends the Disney Premiere of Zootopia in Hollywood, California on February 17, 2016
In the morning he woke early to see the spectacular sunrise over the distant Himalayan mountains.
Could this one simple tweak to your golf swing help you add 30 yards to your drives? Take 26 seconds and see how it works...
Survey suggests 25 to 34-year-olds are finding increasingly harder to buy a house.
Dutch police stepped up security patrols at airports and tightened checks at borders after Tuesday's attacks in neighbouring Belgium, the security agency said. Travellers passing through Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport reported delays and a heavy police presence. Security agencies declined to give details of any further measures taken, but maintained the national threat level at "substantial", one notch below the highest.
British sports car maker TVR is to make its new generation of vehicles in South Wales, creating 150 jobs. It is the second luxury car maker to announce a major investment in Wales in recent weeks after Aston Martin said it was to open a new production facility  in the Vale of Glamorgan. Production for the TVR is to begin in  Ebbw Vale next year with four new models being brought to the market over the next 10 years.
These 16 Cancer causing foods really should be banned. Food #13 could be the biggest cancer causing food, stop eating it now!
Spanish investigators were on Monday attempting to establish the cause of a weekend coach crash that killed 13 foreign students, all young women and most of them from Italy.
Chadian teenager Zouhoura, whose gang-rape by young men from well-to-do families sparked unprecedented mass protests in her country, says she wants justice for herself and for "all women" who have long suffered in silence.
The iPad Pro now has a smaller sibling – one that comes with a more recognisable 9.7-inches on the display.
Discover a safe, natural sleep-aid that is helping people of all ages get the best sleep of their life.
When Brandy Pounds swam in central Florida's Crystal River earlier this month, she came so close to an endangered manatee that she could feel the sea cow's breath tickling her toes.
The BBC has appointed a new head of editorial content for popular motoring show Top Gear.
Royal Bank of Scotland has made a final payment to Britain's finance ministry to cancel an arrangement that gives the government priority over dividends. The bank has paid a 1.2 billion pound fee to the Treasury to terminate the dividend access share (DAS), which was put in place after its 45.8 billion pound government rescue during the 2007-09 financial crisis. The payment is a key step in the process of returning RBS to full private ownership, making the stock more attractive to investors.
VA Rates as Low as 2.75% (3.028% APR) 15 Year Fixed. Exclusive For Veteran & Military Takes 1 Min!
A Russian court on Monday began delivering the verdict in the high-profile murder trial of Ukrainian helicopter pilot Nadiya Savchenko, which Kiev and the West have slammed as a political sham.