2013-07~12
http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/Front-Pages-from-Around-the-Globe-4950396.php

Front Pages from Around the Globe - SFGate
The ministerial committee that oversees the release of security prisoners approved the release of 26 Palestinian inmates Sunday, the second group to be released as part of the agreement to renew negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. All of the prisoners were involved in terror attacks that killed Israeli citizens. The prime minister's office stated that the prisoners were involved in attacks before the Oslo Accords were signed, and all received prison sentences between 17 and 27 years.
Israel will renew its cooperation with the U.N. Human Rights Council after a year and a half of boycott, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Sunday. The prime minister moved to renew ties in light of pressure applied by the governments of the United States and Germany. Israel has boycotted the council in Geneva since March 2012. The foreign minister at the time cut ties after the council decided to conduct an international investigation into settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem.
Five people were killed and 38 injured after a jeep plowed through crowds before it crashed and caught fire in Tiananmen Square Monday. The driver and two passengers were killed along with a Filipina tourist and a man from Guangdong province. (Editor's note: Beijing officials later announced they had arrested five men, all ethnic Uighurs from China's western Xinjiang region, whom they said had enlisted a family of three to drive the vehicle. Militants from the Muslim Uighur community have been fighting a low-intensity insurgency against Chinese rule in Xinjiang for years.)
For the first time, state media gave the world a rare glimpse into China's nuclear-powered submarine fleet. Military observers said the extensive coverage on television will serve as a deterrent to any attempted provocation amid a changing geopolitical world. TV commentators said the submarine force has given China a more covert and reliable counterstrike capability.
U.S. National Security Agency Director Keith Alexander told a House of Representatives intelligence panel that Spain and France helped his organization with its spying on those countries. He said the millions of telephone records of European citizens were swept up as part of a NATO program to protect alliance members. Up to now, Spain has said it was unaware of any U.S. spying. (Editor's note: El Pais reported the NSA had collected data on 60 million telephone calls based on documents provided by Edward Snowden, the former NSA contractor who has been at the center of the spying scandal.)
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy met with representatives of Spain's publishing industry to listen to their suggestions about curbing piracy of e-books. In 2012, the industry lost $467 million since only 32 percent of Spaniards who read e-books download those books legally, according to the Federation of Publishers' Association. E-books now account for 22 percent of all registered titles in Spain.
Australian embassies are being secretly used to intercept phone calls and data across Asia as part of a U.S.-led global spying network, according to whistle-blower Edward Snowden and a former Australian intelligence officer. The clandestine surveillance operates without the knowledge of most Australian diplomats. The Australian embassies involved are in Jakarta, Bangkok, Hanoi, Beijing and Dili in East Timor; and High Commissions in Kuala Lumpur and Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea. (Editor's note: The Snowden document said surveillance equipment at these embassies includes antennas that are "sometimes hidden in false architectural features or roof maintenance sheds.")
Queensland state police want recreational bikers to call them before traveling in groups to avoid being harassed by police who believe they may be members of the Hells Angels. Australian Motorcycle Council spokeswoman Eva Cripps said the council is against the need to inform the police but said law-abiding bikers were likely to support the scheme to stop persecution.
On a day like no other in Toronto politics, the taxpayers Mayor Rob Ford says he proudly represents were hit by a bombshell from Toronto Police Chief Bill Blair. Blair publicly said he had seen a video Ford claimed did not exist that showed the mayor appearing to smoke crack cocaine while making homophobic and racially charged remarks. Detectives obtained the video images from a deleted file from a computer hard drive seized in a drug raid. (Editor's note: Ford's lawyer attacked Blair for talking publicly about the video, despite acknowledging it does not provide enough evidence to file criminal charges. Ford says he plans to run for a second term next year.)
A Statistics Canada report showed a strong link between household income and Internet use. The data noted that high wireless prices now play a role in the digital divide, with only 25 percent of lower-income Canadians of all age groups using wireless services.