2013-07~12
http://news.gc.ca/web/article-eng.do?nid=781119

Archived - Itinerary - State Visit to the People's Republic of China - Canada News Centre
Information identified as archived is provided for reference, research or recordkeeping purposes. It is not subject to the Government of Canada Web Standards and has not been altered or updated since it was archived. Please contact us to request a format other than those available.
OTTAWA—At the request of the Right Honourable Stephen Harper, Prime Minister of Canada, Their Excellencies the Right Honourable David Johnston, Governor General of Canada, and Mrs. Sharon Johnston will conduct a State visit to the People’s Republic of China, from October 16 to 24, 2013.
All timings indicated are in local time zone (China Standard Time – UTC/GMT +08:00)  
00:15 a.m. Arrival in Beijing Upon their arrival in the capital city of Beijing, Their Excellencies and the Canadian delegation will be welcomed by Chinese government officials, as well as His Excellency Zhang Junsai, Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to Canada, and Mr. Guy Saint-Jacques, Ambassador of Canada to the People’s Republic of China. Beijing Capital International Airport PHOTO OP
11 a.m. Meeting with the Premier of the People’s Republic of China The Governor General will meet with His Excellency Li Keqiang, Premier of the People's Republic of China, which will be an opportunity to engage with the new Chinese leadership. Xinjiang Hall, Great Hall of the People Photo Op—At the beginning of the meeting
11:55 a.m. Education Partnerships Announcement The Governor General will witness the signing of partnership agreements between two important Canadian institutions and two leading Chinese universities on the establishment of complementary programs which will offer professional development in law, business and finance at the international level. Water Room, 3rd floor, Westin Beijing Chaoyang Hotel Photo Op—At the beginning of the event
12:30 p.m. Keynote Address at the Canada China Business Council’s (CCBC) 35th Annual General Meeting and Policy Conference On the occasion of the CCBC’s annual general meeting luncheon, His Excellency will deliver a keynote address entitled ‘Beyond Trade: Canada, China and the Importance of Seeing Things Whole.’ It will highlight the growing collaboration between our two countries and the need to engage broadly across a wide spectrum of our respective societies.
This annual conference brings together business leaders from across Canada and China, and focuses on the progress made in Canada’s bilateral economic relationship with China in the sectors of economy, knowledge, culture and energy. For more information, please visit www.ccbc.com. Jinmao Ballroom, 3rd floor, Westin Beijing Chaoyang Hotel OPEN TO MEDIA
5 p.m. Official Welcoming Ceremony Their Excellencies will be officially welcomed by His Excellency Xi Jinping, President of the People’s Republic of China. The Governor General will then inspect the guard of honour and receive a 21-gun salute. Eastern Plaza, Great Hall of the People OPEN TO MEDIA
5:20 p.m. Meeting with the President of the People’s Republic of China The Governor General will meet with the President to discuss Canada and China’s mutual interests. East Hall, Great Hall of the People Photo Op—At the beginning of the meeting
6 p.m. State Dinner Hosted by the President of the People’s Republic of China In honour of Their Excellencies’ visit to the country, the President will host a State dinner. West Hall, Great Hall of the People Official Photographers Only  
10:30 a.m. Arrival in Shanghai Upon their arrival in Shanghai, Their Excellencies and the Canadian delegation will be welcomed by Chinese government officials and Mr. Rick Savone, Consul General of Canada in Shanghai. Hongqiao International Airport Photo Op
12 p.m. Round-table Discussion with Canadian Students in Shanghai The Governor General will meet with Canadian students studying in Shanghai to gain insight on some of the opportunities they have and the challenges they face while studying abroad. They will also discuss innovation and education in both the Canadian and Chinese schooling systems. 
At 1:20 p.m., His Excellency will offer closing remarks and gather with the round table participants for a group photo. 
Canada-China student exchanges are growing stronger, with over 82 000 Chinese students currently studying in Canada, and approximately 3 400 Canadian students studying in China. Both countries have agreed to a target of 100 000 students enrolled in such exchanges by 2015. Lisao I Room, 3rd floor, Portman Ritz-Carlton Hotel Photo Op – Closing remarks and group photo
2 p.m. Education Partnerships Announcement His Excellency will witness the signing of an agreement between the University of Ottawa’s Faculty of Medicine and the Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, establishing a strategic partnership in medical education and training. Huang Pu II Room, 3rd floor, Portman Ritz-Carlton Hotel Photo Op—At the beginning of the event
6 p.m. National Arts Centre Orchestra Pre-Concert Reception On the occasion of the final performance of the National Arts Centre (NAC) Orchestra’s tour of China and the first night of the China Shanghai International Arts Festival, Their Excellencies will attend a reception hosted by the Consul General of Canada in Shanghai. 
At 6:25 p.m., His Excellency will deliver remarks highlighting the strong co-operation that Canada and China have built through the arts and the opportunities created through cultural exchanges.
Led by renowned music director Pinchas Zukerman, the NAC Orchestra is touring China for the first time in its 43-year history, from October 4 to 20, 2013. Seventy musicians will have travelled to seven cities: Hong Kong, Guangzhou, Chongqing, Fuling, Tianjin, Beijing and Shanghai. The NAC Orchestra will also have conducted more than 80 education and outreach activities, and five international broadband video conferences linking young musicians in Canada and China. For more information, visit www.nac-cna.ca/en/chinatour. Reception Hall, Ground floor, Shanghai Concert Hall Open to Media - Remarks only
7:30 p.m. National Arts Centre Orchestra Concert Their Excellencies will attend the NAC Orchestra’s last performance of its China-wide tour, which features masterpieces by esteemed Canadian composers. Following the concert, Their Excellencies will have the opportunity to meet and congratulate music director Pinchas Zukerman and the orchestra’s musicians. Auditorium, Shanghai Concert Hall Open to Media National Arts Centre Orchestra’s performance Official Photographers and Canadian Media Only – Meeting with Pinchas Zukerman and NAC musicians
6 p.m. Meeting with the Party Secretary of Shanghai The Governor General will meet with His Excellency Han Zheng, Party Secretary of Shanghai, to discuss the strengthening of ties between Canada and Shanghai. Conference Room, 2nd floor, Hengshan Picardie Hotel Photo Op—At the beginning of the meeting
10:07 a.m. Arrival in Nanjing   Upon their arrival in Nanjing by high-speed train, Their Excellencies will be greeted by local Chinese officials. Nanjing South Train Station Official Photographers Only 
10:45 a.m. Visit to the Amity Foundation Bakery by Her Excellency Sharon Johnston Upon her arrival at the bakery, Her Excellency will meet with Amity Foundation officials and be introduced to their wide-ranging projects and services. After touring the facilities, she will participate in a baking workshop and sample delicious baked goods alongside young trainees with developmental disabilities.
The Amity Foundation, an independent Chinese voluntary organization, was created in 1985, on the initiative of Chinese Christians to promote education, social services, health and rural development in China. It is one of the most important charities in China. The Amity Bakery is run by the Foundation and is China’s first business entity that provides training and job opportunities to people with developmental disabilities. For more information, visit www.amityfoundation.org/eng. No. 45-1 Youfuxi Street, Nanjing Open to Media – Tour of the facilities and baking workshop
11:30 a.m. Meeting with the Party Secretary of Jiangsu The Governor General will meet with His Excellency Luo Zhijun, Party Secretary of Jiangsu, to discuss the strengthening of ties between Canada and China. Diamond Ballroom A, 8th floor, Sofitel Galaxy Nanjing Hotel Photo Op – At the beginning of the meeting 
2 p.m. Panel Discussion at Nanjing University (NJU) Upon his arrival at the Xianlin Campus Library, the Governor General will be welcomed by NJU Chancellor Hong Yinxing and President Chen Jun for a panel discussion on ‘Fostering Learning and Innovation’. At 2:30 p.m., His Excellency will deliver a speech to academics, administrators and university students, highlighting both his own personal ties and those of Canada to NJU, while reaffirming the importance of collaborative learning between our two countries. The speech will be followed by a discussion with Canadian and Chinese panellists and a question-and-answer session with students.
Founded in 1902, NJU is one of the oldest and most prestigious institutions of higher learning in China. It is a comprehensive research university with particular strengths in chemistry, mathematics, engineering and computer science. NJU is active in international co-operation and academic exchanges, having formed partnerships with over 260 institutions from 30 different countries. In April 2012, His Excellency received an honoris causa doctorate from NJU. For more information about the university, visit www.nju.edu.cn.  Auditorium, Ground floor, Xianlin Campus Library, Nanjing University Open to Media – Speech, panel discussion and question-and-answer session
5:15 p.m. Meeting with the Party Secretary of Nanjing The Governor General will meet with His Excellency Yang Weize, Party Secretary of Nanjing, to discuss Canada’s continued engagement in China. VIP Lounge, Nanjing South Railway Station OFFICIAL PHOTOGRAPHERS ONLY
4 p.m. Visit to the Shanghai Mental Health Centre by Her Excellency Sharon Johnston Her Excellency will have the opportunity to tour the Shanghai Mental Health Centre, at Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine. She will visit the Centre’s children’s ward and observe various therapy sessions. She will also meet with Dr. Michael Phillips, a Canadian doctor and director of the Suicide Research and Prevention Centre to discuss mental health issues in China. In October 2013, Dr. Phillips was awarded the Shanghai Magnolia Gold Award, the city’s top honour for expats, in recognition of his contributions to the city’s social and economic development.
The Shanghai Mental Health Centre is the largest mental health facility in China and specializes in the full spectrum of mental health therapies and approaches. For more information, visit www.say-bar.com (Mandarin only). 600 Wanping Nan Road, Shanghai Official Photographers Only
10:45 p.m. Arrival in Chengdu Upon their arrival in Chengdu, Their Excellencies and the Canadian delegation will be welcomed by Chinese government officials and Mr. Philippe Rheault, Consul General of Canada in Chongqing. Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport Photo Op
9:30 a.m. Meeting with the Party Secretary of Sichuan Province The Governor General will meet with His Excellency Wang Dongming, Party Secretary of Sichuan Province, to discuss the ongoing relationship between Canada and southwestern China. Sichuan Provincial People's Government Building Photo Op – At the beginning of the meeting
10:30 a.m. Friends of Canada Reception On the occasion of his visit to Chengdu, the Governor General will offer short remarks and present State visit medallions to individuals for their continued and exceptional service in promoting and enhancing the Canada-China relationship. Shangri-La Hotel, Chengdu Open to Media – Remarks and medallion presentation
1:30 p.m. Bilateral Meeting and Panel Discussion at Sichuan University Upon his arrival at Huaxi Campus, the Governor General will be greeted by Mr. Xie Heping, President of Sichuan University. His Excellency will then participate in a bilateral meeting with Sichuan University officials and presidents from key universities in southwest China. The meeting will focus on Canada’s strong commitment to building prosperous and lasting relationships with southwest China, especially with regard to the education sector.
At 2:45 p.m., His Excellency will deliver an address before academics and 200 Sichuan University students on Canada and China’s progress in learning and innovating together, as well as the importance of continued collaboration. The speech will be followed by a discussion with Canadian and Chinese panellists on education, innovation and prosperity. A question-and-answer session with students will conclude the event.
Sichuan University is the most prestigious post-secondary institution in Sichuan province. 2010 marked the 100th anniversary of the founding of the West China Medical Centre at Sichuan University, as well as Canada’s long and fruitful relationship with Sichuan and southwestern China. Ties to the university remain strong today with partnerships with Western University, the University of Prince Edward Island, and the University of Ottawa. For more information, visit www.scu.edu.cn/en.  New No. 8 Teaching Building, Huaxi Campus, Sichuan University Photo Op – At the end of the bilateral meeting, group photo at the front entrance of the Old No. 8 Teaching Building, Huaxi Campus Open to Media – Speech, panel discussion and question-and-answer session
1:30 p.m. Visit to SOS Children’s Village by Her Excellency Sharon Johnston Her Excellency will visit a local orphanage managed by International SOS Children’s Village, in Chengdu, which has been receiving support from Canadian individuals and organizations. After touring the village’s facilities, she will join children in their classrooms during calligraphy lessons and taekwondo practice. She will also meet a family, visit their home and have the chance to talk with them about their daily life.
SOS Children’s Villages is an international NGO that advocates for children’s rights and interests. The Chengdu chapter was established in 1997, by the Chengdu Government and SOS Children’s Villages. Adopting a family-centered orphan care methodology, each village regroups orphans into families composed of one substitute mother and seven to nine children under the age of 14. For more information, visit www.sos-childrensvillages.org. Huazhaobi St, Jinniu District, Chengdu Open to Media
7:30 p.m. Opening Reception of the 14th Western China International Fair Their Excellencies will attend the opening reception of the 14th Western China International Fair (WCIF), along with Chinese officials and other international leaders. The WCIF is an international exposition supported by China’s central and provincial governments as a platform for investment promotion and trade co-operation. For more information, visit en.wcif.cn. Bashu Ballroom, 1st floor, Shangri-La Hotel Open to Media – Cultural performance and opening remarks
10 a.m. Opening Plenary of the 6th Western China International Cooperation Forum On the occasion of the 6th Western China International Co-operation Forum, an event being held during the WCIF, His Excellency will deliver remarks on Canada’s commitment to strengthening our economic ties with China, the great potential for further development, and the importance of co-operation in our nations’ mutual success. The forum is a venue for China’s Vice-Premier and other international leaders to exchange opinions on the theme of ‘Balanced development and common prosperity.’ Crystal Room, 5th floor, Century City New International Convention and Exposition Centre Photo Op – Group photo with dignitaries taken prior to the Opening Plenary Open to Media – Opening remarks only
10 a.m.  Visit to the Chengdu Panda Base by Her Excellency Sharon Johnston Upon her arrival, Her Excellency will be greeted by Dr. Zhang Zhihe, Director of the Chengdu Panda Base. Her Excellency will tour the research centre’s exhibit to learn more about the conservation and breeding of China’s national animal. She will also have the opportunity to visit the centre’s nursery and see the panda enclosures. 
The Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding (“Chengdu Panda Base”) is a non-profit organization engaged in wildlife research, captive breeding, conservation education and educational tourism. It was founded in 1987, with six giant pandas rescued from the wild. Now the captive population has increased to 83 animals. The recent arrival at the Toronto Zoo of two pandas, Da Mao (from the Chengdu Panda Base) and Er Shun, is part of a long-term conservation partnership agreement between Canada and China. 1375 Xiongmao Ave, Chenghua, Chengdu Open to Media
3:15 p.m. Arrival in Guangzhou Upon their arrival in Guangzhou, Their Excellencies and the Canadian delegation will be welcomed by Chinese government officials and Mr. Weldon Epp, Consul General of Canada in Guangzhou. Baiyun International Airport Photo Op
6:15 p.m. Opening of the Photo Exhibit ‘Who am I? Bridging the Pacific: From Guangdong to Barkerville and Back’ Joined by His Excellency Zhu Xiao Dan, Governor of Guangdong Province, Their Excellencies will officially open the Barkerville photo exhibit at the Guangdong Museum of Chinese Nationals Residing Abroad. Together, they will tour the exhibit and learn how the project aspires to commemorate the earliest Chinese migrants to Canada, specifically to the historic town of Barkerville, British Columbia.
At 6:30 p.m., the Governor General will offer remarks to assembled guests and present State visit medallions to individuals for their continued and exceptional service in promoting and enhancing the Canada-China relationship.
The exhibit features historical photos that illustrate Chinese life in the Cariboo region of British Columbia in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Part research project, the exhibit also includes innovative features that allow visitors to contribute information on the photos and the people they depict to an electronic database. The exhibit is managed by the Barkerville Heritage Trust, with the research aspect involving the University of Northern British Columbia. For more information, visit www.barkerville.ca/china.htm. Guangdong Museum of Chinese Nationals Residing Abroad, Ersha Dao Photo Op – Opening of the exhibit and beginning of the tour OPEN TO MEDIA – Remarks and medallion presentation
8:50 a.m. Panel Discussion at Sun Yat-sen University Upon his arrival at Blackstone Lodge, the Governor General will be greeted by Mr. Xu Ningsheng, President of Sun Yat-sen University. At 9 a.m., His Excellency will witness the signing of an agreement between the University of Alberta and Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) regarding the China Scholarship Council. Shortly thereafter, the Governor General and the President of SYSU will be joined by Mr. Carl G. Amrhein, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) of the University of Alberta, and unveil a plaque to commemorate the establishment of a joint life sciences lab between both universities. 
At 9:30 a.m., His Excellency will deliver a speech on the future of innovation and its impact on the Canada-China relationship. The discussion will then be open to expert Canadian and Chinese panellists to exchange views and ideas on innovation and co-operation in life sciences. A question-and-answer session with audience members will follow.
SYSU is the most prestigious and historic university in South China, boasting numerous links to Canada and Canadian educational institutions. Specifically, SYSU Medical School has partnership agreements with the medical schools of McGill, Western University and the University of Toronto. SYSU has various other collaborations with the University of Alberta, the University of British Columbia and the University of Victoria. Blackstone Lodge and Swasey Hall, Sun Yat-sen University Photo Op – Signing agreement and plaque unveiling at Blackstone Lodge Open to Media – Speech, panel discussion and question-and-answer session
10 a.m. Visits to the Guangzhou Huiling Art Workshop by Her Excellency Sharon Johnston Her Excellency will be welcomed by Ms. Ceci Xie, Chief Executive of Guangzhou Huiling, and guided on a tour of the facilities. In addition to interacting with workshop participants who are developmentally challenged, Her Excellency will take part in a pottery class, one of the various handicrafts classes offered on-site.
Guangzhou Huiling is a non-government, non-profit grassroots organization dedicated to providing individuals equal opportunity to participate in and contribute to the community. It assists with housing and with employment opportunities for over 200 persons in Guangzhou, and has a number of projects, including the Sheltered Workshop and Yitong Art Workshop, which  provide training in employment skills and job placement for persons with developmental challenges. For more information, visit www.gzhl.org. Lujing Dong Rd., Guangzhou Official Photographers Only
11:30 a.m. Meeting with Party Secretary of Guangdong Province prior to departure from China The Governor General will meet with His Excellency Hu Chunhua, Party Secretary of Guangdong Province to underscore the strength of the relationship between Canada and South China. Guangdong State House, Shamian Island Photo Op – At the beginning of the meeting  
Visits abroad by a governor general play an important role in Canada’s relations with other countries. They are highly valuable as they help broaden bilateral relations and exchanges among peoples.
Members of the public can follow the Governor General’s State visit to the People’s Republic of China online at www.gg.ca, where speeches, photos and videos will be posted.