2013-07~12
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/Special/2013/07/03/China-cries-foul-over-Uighur-violence/UPI-24721372868058/

China cries foul over Uighur violence - UPI.com
BEIJING, July 3 (UPI) -- There has been an unfair level of accusation pointed at the Chinese government for religious violence in Xinjiang province, Chinese state media said.
Chinese authorities announced the arrest of 19 people Monday in the Xinjiang-Uighur region where June violence left at least 35 people dead. Those arrested were suspected of inciting violence in the region, which Chinese media described as an act of terrorism.
The New York Times reported this week supporters of rights for the Uighur ethnic community expressed concern with China's heavy-handed policies in the region. Uighur advocates were quoted as saying the Chinese government was making matters worse in Xinjiang.
China's official Xinhua News Agency expressed concern in an editorial Wednesday, saying it was frustrated by the lack of sympathy for terrorism in China. The commentary said it was unfair for the West to speak so strongly against terrorism in the Middle East but express so little sympathy for China's plight.
"Rather than condemn the terrorists, they have blamed Beijing's ethnic policies and even hinted at religious repression," the piece stated.
The violence came ahead of the fourth anniversary of ethnic riots in the region's capital Urumqi in which about 200 died.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.