2013-07~12
http://www.scmp.com/comment/insight-opinion/article/1275550/talking-points&c=KDgN3ZboEwcUAQS7NK-w8vVgCXnXEkcpUufIYE57YvM&mkt=en-us

Talking points | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Our editors will be looking ahead to these developing stories ...
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
China and Russia stage their largest yet joint naval drills as they begin what is expected to be an eight-day exercise in the Sea of Japan. China is sending seven ships, four destroyers, two escort vessels and a supply ship to the manoeuvres, the largest number of PLA Navy vessels to participate in naval exercises with a foreign military force, according to the military's official newspaper. The exercise is thought by analysts to be a response to joint US-Japanese drills.
Xinjiang marks the fourth anniversary of deadly riots amid rising ethnic tensions in the mainland's westernmost region. Security in the restive region's capital Urumqi has been stepped up, with paramilitary police officers in riot gear and armed with machine guns deployed alongside soldiers. At least 197 people died and thousands of others were injured in the 2009 clashes between Muslim Uygurs and Han Chinese migrants.
The Hong Kong government takes its first step towards regulating the city's insurance agents, presenting plans for an insurance authority to lawmakers. If approved, the regulator will be operational in 2015, with 240 staff and an annual budget of HK$200 million. Hong Kong's insurance industry is overseen by the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance, which has no power to control agents.
The annual Hong Kong International Arts Carnival kicks off, offering a wide range of arts programmes for the whole family. The programme runs until August 11 and includes leading art groups from the mainland, Korea, Italy, Norway, Peru and Britain, as well as top local talent. During the next three nights, the Diavolo Dance Theatre, a US group, presents Architecture in Motion, at the Cultural Centre - one of the first events to launch the carnival.
The General Synod of the Church of England, the governing body of the Anglican church, gathers in York to debate the vexed issue of women bishops. The synod rejected the possibility of allowing women to become bishops in November under pressure from traditionalists. The Church of England is the mother church of the 85-million-strong worldwide Anglican communion.
Economists and policymakers from around the world gather in Ai-en-Provence, southern France, for the city's annual economic forum. Keynote speakers at the three-day even include International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde, Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti and Jean-Claude Trichet, former president of the European Central Bank.