2013-07~12
http://www.independent.ie/world-news/five-held-over-china-suicide-attack-29709957.html

Five held over China suicide attack - Independent.ie

Five people have been arrested suspected of being involved in the suicide car attack near Beijing's Tiananmen Square.

Beijing police the three people who died when they carried out Monday's incident have also also identified, and called it a carefully planned terrorist attack.
Two tourists, including a hit by the speeding vehicle, were also killed and another 38 injured. Police said knives, iron bars , petrol and a flag imprinted with religious slogans were found in the vehicle.
The three attackers, including one woman, and the five arrested all had names identifying them as members of the Turkic Muslim Uighur ethnic group native to the restive north-western region of Xinjiang where extremists have been battling security forces for years.
Of the 38 injured, five needed surgery, 12 are in intensive care, and 21 are in ordinary wards.
Kevin Doyle Taoiseach Enda Kenny has told the numbers dead in Brussels are “substantial” but as yet unconfirmed.
Margaret Davis and Hayden Smith The Brussels attacks would have taken "quite a while" to plan as they involved explosives and targeting an airport, an international security expert has said.

'It had all the attributes of 'a win, is a win, is a win''

Several bomb attacks have thrown the spotlight on security in Turkey. Here...

Taoiseach Enda Kenny has told the numbers dead in Brussels are...

The Brussels attacks would have taken "quite a while" to plan...

Dublin MEP Brian Hayes was on the Brussels Metro this morning...

At least 17 Hindus have died after consuming illegally-made alcohol during religious celebrations in...

An armed British ship believed to be carrying enough plutonium...

Burma's president-elect has proposed an 18-member Cabinet which will include party leader...

At least 13 people have been killed and many others injured in a...

Luke Mac An Bháird, a Galway man who was in Brussels Zavantem Airport on Tuesday morning...

At least 21 people have been killed and many others injured in a...

Foreign secretary Philip Hammond says Britain is in contact with...

Footage courtsey of Jef Versele shows debris inside the Brussels...

US President Barack Obama shakes hand with Cuban President Raul Castro in Havana during the US...

An elephant has killed a man in West Bengal, India. The incident captured on a smartphone...

Footage released by ESA shows astronauts Tim Peake and Scott Kelly zapping aliens as part of...