2013-07~12
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2013-12-16/an-16-dead-in-china-clash/5159812

Clash in China’s Xinjiang region leaves 16 dead - Australia Network News - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)
Sixteen people have reportedly been killed in a clash in China's far western region of Xinjiang, home to the mostly Muslim Uyghur ethnic minority.
State media reports say police were attempting to detain criminal suspects in Shufu village near Kashgar, the country's westernmost city, when they were attacked by "thugs" armed with explosive devices and knives on Sunday.
Two police officers were killed and 14 of the attackers were shot dead.
A brief government statement says an investigation has been launched and two suspects have been detained.
In recent weeks Chinese authorities have launched a crackdown in the Muslim far west of the country after three ethnic Uyghurs - allegedly seeking Xinjiang independence - self-immolated inside a car in front of Beijing's Tiananmen Gate.
Two others were killed in the incident and another 40 were injured.
Xinjiang, a vast area bordering Pakistan and Central Asia, has followed Islam for centuries.
For years it has seen sporadic unrest by Uyghurs, which rights groups say is driven by cultural oppression and intrusive security measures.
However China attributes the conflict to extremist religion, terrorism and separatism.

Topics:
unrest-conflict-and-war,


 
 crime,


 
 law-crime-and-justice,


 
 police,


 
 community-and-society,


 
 islam,


 
 china,


 
 asia


 First posted 
 
 December 16, 2013 17:42:31
 

Brussels has been rocked by a series of blasts at the city's airport and at least one metro station, leaving at least 21 dead.
Dozens of large private companies paid no corporate tax in 2013-14. Search our database to see who's paying what.
Malcolm Turnbull has shown crossbench senators the hangman's noose and their minds will now be focused on one thing: survival.
Boldness is the currency of Canberra and confidence is a substitute for the control MPs will never have. Enter Malcolm Turnbull and the double dissolution gamble he "had to take", writes Chris Berg.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.


AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)
