2013-07~12
http://www.thewire.com/national/2013/12/all-uighur-detainees-have-been-released-guantanamo/356603/

All Uighur Detainees Have Been Released From Guantanamo - The Wire
The last three of 22 Uighurs detained in Guantanamo Bay since 2001 have been freed and sent to Slovakia, five years after a federal judge ordered their release and 10 years after Guantanamo's then-top officer Geoffrey Miller recommended they be freed because they were "not affiliated" with Al Qaeda or the Taliban.
The three men -- Yusef Abbas, Saidullah Khalik, and Hajiakbar Abdul Ghuper -- are Uighurs, a predominantly Muslim ethnic minority concentrated in western China. They were captured by the US military in Afghanistan. It's taken us this long to find another country to take them in; China was not an option for fears that they would be mistreated there. (For good reason: many Uighurs believe the Chinese government is violently oppressing them, while the Chinese government has accused the Uighurs of terrorism. There have been several deadly clashes between them in recent months, including yesterday.)
According to the BBC, Slovakia said in a statement that the men "have never been suspected nor accused of terrorism." The United States thanked Slovakia for its "humanitarian gesture" and called it a "significant milestone in our effort to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay."
Other Uighur detainees have gone to Albania, Bermuda, El Salvador, Palau and Switzerland. The final three apparently rejected offers from other countries before finally accepting Slovakia. China was not pleased with countries that took in the Uighurs; in Palau, for instance, construction on a Chinese-backed luxury hotel abruptly stopped when the country granted asylum to six Uighur detainees in 2009.
Though President Obama has renewed his unfulfilled campaign promise to close Gitmo and 11 prisoners have been released since August, 155 detainees still remain.

 Jonathan Abrams’s fascinating new book looks at the success stories (and the failures) of basketball’s “prep-to-pro” era.


 Jonathan Abrams’s fascinating new book looks at the success stories (and the failures) of basketball’s “prep-to-pro” era.


 Paul Ryan is pushing lawmakers to tackle an issue Republicans have long ignored, but all Democrats see are cuts—and a familiar foil.


 At least 28 people are dead in blasts at the city’s airport and a metro station, news reports say.


 American conservatives are furious about images taken in Havana with the famous revolutionary in the background. Guevara might be even more upset.


 What information, if anything, does a trans woman owe a straight man? A Horace and Pete scene about that subject was dubbed “problematic” due solely to the identity of its writer.


 On Monday, Apple did something it has never done before.


 Controversial remarks by Raymond Moore, the CEO of Indian Wells Tennis Garden, have reignited a conversation about prize money in the sport.


 In the Democrats Abroad primary, the Vermont senator beat his rival by a wide margin and picked up nine delegates.


 Exiled writers use words as art and inspire a community.


 The musical interpretation of the gospels is the ultimate experiment in turning religion into entertainment.


 Two groups left Alexandria for supply runs that went awry.


 The president traveled to Havana on Sunday for a historic three-day visit.


 The amount of recycled material in entertainment is frequently lamented, but it isn’t a new phenomenon.


 The hit song by Twenty One Pilots tackles a generation's insecurities.


 Fanatical about violence and skittish about sexuality, the show exemplifies much of what’s wrong with modern television.


 The highlights from seven days of reading about entertainment


 A photographer slows down his process to capture a population in flux.


 A look at the implications of the State Department’s declaration about the Islamic State’s brutal campaign in Iraq and Syria.


 Jurors in Florida awarded the retired pro wrestler $115 million in his violation-of-privacy lawsuit against the media outlet.


This Is What the Truth Feels Like mines the No Doubt singer’s divorce and tabloid-baiting new romance—but the honesty feels far from radical.


 Netflix’s Pee-wee’s Big Holiday features a 63-year-old man playing a boy who is struggling to become a man. It’s all a little too Cree-pee.


 Jeff Nichols channels M. Night Shyamalan in this tense, focused mystery about a boy with extraordinary powers.


 Michigan Governor Rick Snyder and EPA chief Gina McCarthy on Thursday faced harsh questioning about lead poisoning in the city.


 An investigation shows two unaccounted-for shots, apparently fired by federal officers—and suggestions they tried to cover them up.


 Whether hosting Hamilton or releasing a pop song, Barack and Michelle have used their celebrity status wisely.


 Two presidents, a trove of secretly recorded phone calls, immunity from prosecution, a billion-dollar bribery scandal, and protests.


 In Chester, Montana, a world away from city life inspires an artist's music.


 A portrait of the Los Angeles Times’s food writer, Jonathan Gold, explores how humans connect through food.


 Secretary of State John Kerry announced ISIS is responsible for genocide in areas it controls. The move has been a long time coming.


 The theme park says the killer whales in its care will be its last generation.
