2013-07~12
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/218079701/scat/9366300fc9319e9b

Five Uighurs detained in connection with Tiananmen car blaze - China National News
• The Xinjiang-registered SUV involved in Monday's incident in which five people were killed was driven by Usmen Hasan
• Five people connected with the incident were caught just 10 hours after the attack, with help from the Xinjiang government
• Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the main exiled Uighur group, the World Uyghur Congress, warned against believing China's side of the story.
BEIJING - China police said five people have been arrested in connection with the car crash in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, calling it a terrorist attack and identifying the attackers as members of a Muslim minority from Xinjian province.
Authorities also moved to tighten security in the restive far western, energy-rich region of Xinjiang from where the suspects hail.
The Xinjiang-registered SUV involved in Monday's incident in which five people were killed was driven by Usmen Hasan, police said, a man whose name suggested he is an ethnic Uighur, a Muslim people from Xinjiang.
His wife and mother were with him in the car, along with devices filled with gasoline, knives and a flag with "religious extremist content" written on it, police said on their official microblog.
The police identified the mother as Kuwanhan Reyim and his wife Gulkiz Gini. All three died, police officials said.
The vehicle ploughed into pedestrians in the square, which has drawn occasional protests since
the 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations were suppressed by the military. Sources earlier told Reuters it was a suspected suicide attack.
"Police have identified Monday's incident at Tiananmen Square as a violent terrorist attack which was carefully planned, organized and premeditated," police said, adding that the three people in the vehicle died after they set the gasoline on fire.
The other two people killed were tourists. At least 38 people were injured.
Five people connected with the incident were caught just 10 hours after the attack, with help from the Xinjiang government, the police added, all of whom also have names that suggest they are Uighur.
Police said they had seized Islamist militant flags and knives from where they were staying.
"As a common enemy of mankind, terrorism has no future, and is doomed to failure," state television said in a commentary on its microblog. "We firmly believe that the Communist Party and government have the ability and the power to resolutely beat back and defeat all illegal terrorist activities."
All three attackers died when their vehicle exploded beneath the portrait of Mao Zedong hanging from Tiananmen Gate. Two tourists, including a Filipino woman, were killed by the vehicle as it sped down a crowded sidewalk, and 38 people were injured, including three Filipino citizens and a Japanese man.
Uighurs are Muslim Turks native to the restive northwestern region of Xinjiang where extremists opposed to Chinese rule have been battling security forces for years.
The statement said the five detained had helped plan and execute the attack, and were caught 10 hours after it was carried out.
It said they had been on the run and were tracked down with the help of police in Xinjiang and elsewhere. It didn't say where they were captured
They were identified as Husanjan Wuxur, Gulnar Tuhtiniyaz, Yusup Umarniyaz, Bujanat Abdukadir and Yusup Ahmat all Uighurs from Xinjiang.
As authorities stepped up already-tight security in Xinjiang, Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the main exiled Uighur group, the World Uyghur Congress, warned against believing China's side of the story.
"Beijing has always made these kind of accusations, but they refuse to make public the reasoning behind them. They will not make the story behind the accusations transparent," he told Reuters.
Raxit said he was worried the incident would provide authorities with an excuse "to further repress Uighurs".
"If an attack is committed by a Han Chinese, it's not terrorism, but if a Uighur commits it, it is," he said, referring to the majority community. "Beijing makes these accusations in service of an ulterior motive."
It insists it respects the region's people and traditions and blames separatist Uighur militants for provoking violence in Xinjiang, which borders the Central Asian states of the former Soviet Union as well as Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Police have identified one of the suspects as being from Lukqun, where 35 people died in June in what China also termed a terrorist attack.
"We have some police matters we are handling. For security reasons, you are not allowed in. I imagine it will be at least another month or two before this area is open," a police officer at the checkpoint said.
Kunshan (China), March 21 (IANS) India were placed in a relatively easy group in the women's section but the men's team did not prove to be as lucky at the draw for the prestigious Thomas and Uber Cup Finals badminton tournament that was held here on Monday.
In the men's section -- the Thomas Cup -- the Indian team have been drawn along with 13-times winners Indonesia and strong contenders Thailand and Hong Kong China in Group B.
The women's team have been placed in Group D of the Uber Cup alongside Japan -- the runners-up in the last edition in 2014 -- Australia and Germany.
The tournament will be held here in Kunshan from May 15-22.
Meanwhile, Thomas Cup defending champions Japan and top seeds China found themselves in the same group as the draw. The two powerhouses were drawn in Group A alongside France and Mexico, ensuring that the starting stage of the finals itself should be an intensely competitive affair.
Second seeds Denmark, in Group D, were drawn along with Chinese Taipei, New Zealand and South Africa while Group C has South Korea, Malaysia, England and Germany.
In the Uber Cup competition, hosts and defending champions China will have to contend with European power Denmark in Group A. Their group-mates are Spain and Malaysia.
Group B consists of Korea, Chinese Taipei, Mauritius and USA, while Group C has Thailand, Indonesia, Bulgaria and Hong Kong China.
Sixteen teams each in the Thomas Cup and Uber Cup qualified for the final rounds based on their performance in the continental team championships and team rankings. The No.1 and No.2 seeded teams were separated in the draw by placing them at the top of Group A and Group D respectively. The other teams and corresponding group positions were then picked by the invited dignitaries.
The top two teams in each group will make it to the knockout stages. There will be another draw for the quarter-finals.

UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved