2013-07~12
http://www.emirates247.com/business/economy-finance/china-economic-corridor-through-rugged-pakistani-mountains-2013-07-06-1.513310

China 'economic corridor' via Pak - Emirates 24|7
An official (R) raises a Pakistani national flag as he prepares for the arrival of Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif during a welcoming ceremony outside the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on July 5,2013. Sharif is on a visit to China from July 3 to 8. (AFP)
China and Pakistan set their sights Friday on developing a transport link from northwestern China through rugged Pakistani mountains to the Arabian Sea, a route they hope will boost economic growth and slash shipping times, the Associated Press (AP) has reported.
A broad agreement for the "economic corridor" was among eight pacts signed following a meeting in Beijing between Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. The transport link was described as a "long-term plan" to connect the Chinese city of Kashgar to the port of Gwadar, more than 2,000 kilometers  (1,240 miles) away across the towering Karakoram mountains and Pakistan's lawless Baluchistan province.
Another agreement will see a fiber optic cable laid from the Chinese border to the Pakistani city of Rawalpindi that will boost Pakistan's access to international communications networks. China is to provide 85 percent of the financing for the three-year project's $44 million budget, with Pakistan covering the rest.
According to AP, the visit is Sharif's first to his country's close ally since he returned to power last month, highlighting the importance Pakistan places on its 63-year-old relationship with China. The two cooperate closely in diplomatic and defense affairs, and share a common rival in their mutual neighbor and occasional military opponent India.
"Let me tell you very candidly and very sincerely that what I am witnessing here on my visit to Beijing, it reminds me of the saying our friendship is higher than the Himalayas and deeper than the deepest sea in the world, and sweeter than honey," Sharif told Li at the start of their meeting, employing the usually effusive language with which the two nations describe their relationship.
China provides Pakistan with aid and foreign investment, while Islamabad offers Beijing important diplomatic backing in the face of Muslim-majority nations who might otherwise criticise China's handling of its Muslim population.
Pakistan is hoping to attract greater Chinese investment to revive its moribund economy beset by inefficiency, corruption, political instability, and chronic electricity shortages, while expanding two-way trade that exceeded $12 billion for the first time last year.
For its part, China wants Pakistan to crack down on insurgents from China's Muslim Uighur minority who have taken refuge in Pakistan's northwest alongside Al Qaeda-linked extremists. Pakistan says it has killed or extradited several of those militants over the past few years, but acknowledges that some remain at large in the area. 
Hopes for road, rail and pipeline links from Kashgar to the presently little used port at Gwadar received a major boost when control of the port was transferred to China's state-owned China Overseas Ports Holding Company Ltd. in February. Built by Chinese workers and opened in 2007, it is undergoing a major expansion to turn it into a full-fledged, deep water commercial port.
Located just outside the mouth of the Persian Gulf, Gwadar has the potential of vastly cutting the 12,000-kilometer (7,500-mile) route that Mideast oil supplies must now take to reach Chinese ports. It could also provide an outlet for copper and other resources that Chinese firms plan to mine in Afghanistan, while offering a base for China's navy to operate in the Indian Ocean in competition with India.
China has already begun upgrading the Karakoram Highway that runs through the northwestern Xinjiang region to the Pakistan border and has dispatched workers to develop projects high in the mountains of the Pakistan-controlled part of Kashmir.
The geographical and security challenges to the link remain daunting, however, and any working link is likely many years away. It would go through territory menaced by the Pakistani Taliban, while nationalists in Baluchistan view it as an attempt by the ethnic Punjabis who largely run Pakistan to strengthen their control over the desert region and plunder its natural resources.

The Samsung makeover: A look at how the Galaxy S devices have evolved



13 leading architectural firms had taken part in the competition



Paid parking time be 14 hours per day, starting at 8am until 10pm on weekdays



You debt did not accumulate overnight, so do not expect it eliminate it at lightning speed, writes Theda Muller



Several major regional broadcasters have announced aggressive foray into 4K



Exospace B55, Breitling’s first connected chronograph, launched in Middle East



The Dubai Airport Free Zone Authority (Dafza) posted yet another banner year in 2015, achieving an impressive total 



Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge phones take much better pictures than S6 models



Jebel Ali Free Zone (Jafza) registered 52 new companies in the automotive and aeronautics industry, bringing the total 



It will mitigate oversupply risk in current period of weaker demand: Expert



The Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation announced recently a vast diversion towards non-fixed term contracts 



A video of couple Mark Monaghan and Tanya Malone’s wedding has gone viral.



A video has emerged showing a seemingly easy way to access your iPhone without needing to enter the passcode.



Norwegian Navy perform Uptown Funk flash mob at passing out parade.



New interchange at Sheikh Rashid Road – Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Road



Best private firms in the country with good workplace cultures



Three peaks of tower to allow wire-assisted free fall and base jump



Women and children flee to relatives' and friends' houses in Dubai and other emirates to escape heat



Fare ranges between Dh50 and Dh570 for regular trips and Dh400 per hour for tourist journey



A prominent Saudi psychiatrist has urged local families to market their daughters for early marriage, saying this would

