2013-07~12
http://www.economist.com/news/china/21580491-more-outbreaks-violence-show-governments-policies-are-not-working-unveiled-threats

Unveiled threats | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
IN SHANSHAN county in the western region of Xinjiang, efforts in May to promote “ethnic-harmony education month” were declared a success after official lecture teams delivered more than 100 speeches on the topic to 80,000, mostly Muslim, residents. On June 26th it became clear that their hard work had failed, as 35 people were killed in Shanshan in the bloodiest outbreak of ethnic violence in Xinjiang for four years. The government, as usual, has blamed Islamic terrorists.
The unrest, in Lukqun township, near the oasis city of Turpan, was followed two days later by another violent incident 1,000km (600 miles) to the south, near the city of Khotan. Details of both events are sketchy. Officials say that in Lukqun 15 knife-wielding members of a “violent terrorist gang” rampaged through the town after one of their associates was arrested. They are said to have killed 24 people before police shot dead 11 of them. In Moyu county, in Khotan prefecture, about 100 people riding motorcycles and armed with knives attacked a police station, according to an official newspaper.
Coming just days before the fourth anniversary on July 5th of ethnic unrest in Xinjiang’s capital, Urumqi, that left nearly 200 people dead, these latest incidents have clearly unnerved the leadership in Beijing. On June 28th President Xi Jinping called a meeting of the Politburo’s standing committee to discuss Xinjiang. The committee demanded a “resolute strike” against “violent terrorist forces”. Two Politburo members—domestic-security chief, Meng Jianzhu, and head of minority affairs, Yu Zhengsheng—were dispatched to the region. On June 29th Mr Meng presided over a large parade through Urumqi by paramilitary police with armoured vehicles. A similar show of force was staged on July 1st in a county town near the city of Aksu, with regular army troops joining in. Such military involvement is rare.
Global Times, a Beijing newspaper, quoted an unnamed anti-terrorism official as saying that since last year nearly 100 ethnic Uighurs (Xinjiang’s largest minority) had gone to Syria to fight alongside rebels to hone their “terrorist skills”. But in spite of efforts to link Xinjiang’s violence with Islamist forces abroad, there is little evidence of any organised links.
Spontaneous anger triggered by heavy-handed controls on religious expression is probably a bigger factor than officials are prepared to admit. In Turpan, the prefecture to which Shanshan belongs, the authorities have been waging a campaign to persuade Uighur men not to grow long beards and women not to wear the veil or other Islamic clothing. Those living in neighbourhoods where all residents comply are given preferential access to loans and government-sponsored job-training schemes. They can also obtain government subsidies for funerals and weddings. Even the sale and manufacture of the jilbab, a full-length outer garment worn by Muslim women, has been banned.
Such measures are often ignored. In Khotan women can often be seen with their heads or faces covered. Long beards are the norm for older men. But a Uighur taxi driver says the authorities have been getting tougher in recent weeks. He says employees at his company were told in May that they could be fined 5,000 yuan ($815) for picking up passengers wearing face-coverings that reveal only the eyes. If they do so a second time, they could lose their jobs. He says his company does not employ men with long beards. Khotan residents say a deadly eruption of violence in the city in July 2011 was prompted by anger over restrictions on Islamic dress.
The authorities seem unmoved. In response to the violence, 200 staff at a hospital near Aksu met to criticise the attackers. The facility’s Communist Party chief, a Uighur, called for increased security. Those wearing Islamic clothing and long beards would be targeted, he said.
Muhammad Morsi was incompetent, but his ouster should be cause for regret, not celebration
European governments should not kick up a fuss about American spying. They have too much to lose
Fixing America’s broken immigration system would be good for the country—and for the Republican...
Why being 159th-best at investment is no way for a country to sustain a recovery
The Eurobond’s 50th birthday has lessons for governments about how not to regulate finance
The Egyptian army, with widespread popular support, has ended the presidency of Muhammad Morsi. It...
Getting a bill through the House will be harder than climbing the border fence
Radicals, former soldiers and Cuban spies jostle for control of the Venezuelan ring
Politicians have been hurt by the marches, none more so than the president
An ambitious plan struggles to get off the drawing board
A long-standing unfairness in the electoral system undermines the prime minister’s promised...
The new prime minister says his bad old ways are history
The president is out of tune, out of touch and lashing out
Students coming back home helped build modern China. So why are they now faring so poorly in the...
Pursued in one place in west Africa, extremists pop up somewhere nearby. The first article describes...
Another poor Saharan state has come under attack by violent Islamists
A new and much-lauded president is finding it hard to bury old divisions
It will be tricky getting American arms to selected Syrian rebels
The Arabs are casting around for ways to get negotiations going again
The return of recession, and revelations of bankers behaving badly
Disillusion is leading to the rise of two alternative parties
The Kremlin is trying to frighten dissenters from taking to the streets again
The EU is competing with Russia for the future of its eastern neighbours
Why growing resistance to HS2 will probably not prevent it being built
Some 1960s “plate glass” universities are challenging the big names
Union power-grabs in the Labour Party reveal weakness at the top
Arboreal confirmation that Britain is a European country with European problems
Edward Snowden’s revelations about American espionage have riled Europeans. So has the...
Pope Francis grapples with his bank—the first of many problems
The world’s overcapacity in steelmaking is getting worse, and profits are evaporating
Does John Hammergren deserve to be the latest face of executive excess?
Casual gaming’s fallen star hires a new boss from Microsoft
A huge offshore energy project may prove an expensive disaster
India makes a start on easing its dependence on foreign fuel supplies
Companies built on PCs are adapting to a changed world
Restaurateurs may be forced to draw up new, more honest menus
Design companies are applying their skills to the voluntary and public sectors
A private company controlled by banks connects much of the financial system
Authorities on both sides of the Atlantic make progress towards safer banking
Trade negotiations between America and the European Union will not be smooth
Most countries no longer let firms build up unseen stakes
The gold standard holds worrying lessons for the single currency
Researchers have yet to realise the old dream of regenerating organs. But they are getting closer
An old material may find a new use in batteries
A revolution is taking place in how to visualise information
The third volume of a lively portrait of 20th-century Britain
How high art will come to the rescue of Venice’s glassblowers (fingers crossed)
Marc Rich, king of commodities, died on June 26th, aged 78
Terror in Belgium: Days after the arrest of Europe’s most-wanted...
Dissidents in Azerbaijan: Azerbaijan frees 14 jailed dissidents. The rest...
The Economist explains: How Ireland’s traveller community remains on the...
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more