2013-07~12
http://www.rttnews.com/2245416/last-3-uighur-chinese-nationals-at-guantanamo-bay-transferred-to-slovakia.aspx?type=gn&SimRec=1

Last 3 Uighur Chinese Nationals At Guantanamo Bay Transferred To Slovakia
The last three ethnic Uighur Chinese nationals who have long been detained at the Guantanamo Bay detention facility have been transferred to Slovakia.
The US Department of Defense announced the transfer of Yusef Abbas, Saidullah Khalik, and Hajiakbar Abdul Ghuper on Tuesday.
They were subject to release from Guantanamo as a result of a court order issued on Oct. 7, 2008, by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, and are voluntarily resettling in Slovakia, Pentagon Press Secretary Rear Adm. John Kirby said in a press release..
As directed by the president's January 22, 2009, executive order, the inter agency Guantanamo Review Task Force conducted a comprehensive review of these cases. After examining a number of factors, including security issues, these individuals were designated for transfer by unanimous consent among all six agencies on the task force, he added.
The Obama administration informed Congress of its intent to transfer these individuals.
The United States expressed gratitude to the government of Slovakia for this humanitarian gesture and its willingness to support U.S. efforts to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facility. The United States coordinated with the government of Slovakia to ensure the transfer took place in accordance with appropriate security and humane treatment measures.
"This transfer and resettlement constitutes a significant milestone in our effort to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. Secretary Hagel remains grateful to the Defense Department's Special Envoy Paul Lewis, and Department of State Special Envoy Cliff Sloan, for their and their respective teams' many efforts that facilitated this successful transfer," the Pentagon said.
With the latest release of Guantanamo Bay detainees, the number of inmates at the detention center has dwindled to 155.