2013-07~12
http://www.aljazeera.com/news/asia-pacific/2013/10/china-police-seek-eight-suspects-over-crash-201310305488636899.html

China arrests Tiananmen car-crash suspects - Al Jazeera English
Meet the refugees who fled Syria for the Gaza Strip
30 Oct 2013 12:30 GMT | Asia Pacific, China, India, Pakistan
Chinese authorities have captured the suspects in a fatal car crash that killed five people in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, according to state media, which described the incident as a "terrorist attack" for the first time.
Police in the capital had been searching for eight suspects from Xinjiang region after Monday's crash, hotel staff said earlier."The arrests were made 10 hours after the incident, which has now been identified as a terrorist attack," broadcaster CCTV said on its verified English-language microblog account on Wednesday.
A police notice issued to hotels in Beijing earlier named eight suspects sought in connection with the incident.
The notice suggested that police had widened the hunt for suspects.
Seven of the suspects had names typical of the Turkic Muslim Uighur ethnic group native to the northwestern region of Xinjiang, one hotel manager, who gave only her surname, Wu, told the Associated Press news agency.
Wu, who runs the guesthouse attached to the Beijing liaison office of Xinjiang's Karamay city, declined to give other details.
Employees at a dozen other Beijing hotels refused to discuss the order in a possible sign that police have banned talk of their investigation into the attack in the capital's political heart, where China's communist leaders live and work.
The new police notice, issued on Tuesday, did not state the suspects' ethnic backgrounds.
It included the two men from the earlier notification, one of them from Lukqun, where state media said 35 people were killed in June in what Beijing called a "terrorist attack".
The last suspect's name appeared to be from China's Han ethnic majority. He was born in 1992 and lived in "police family apartments" in Xinjiang, the notice read out by hotel staff said.
Beijing police could not be reached for comment on Wednesday.
A statement from the World Uighur Congress, an exile group which China has condemned, said that suspicions that Uighurs were responsible for Monday's crash could lead to stepped-up government repression.
"Today, I fear for the future of East Turkestan and the Uighur people more than I ever have," Rebiya Kadeer, World Uighur Congress president, said in a statement issued from Washington DC on Wednesday.
East Turkestan is the name which the activist organisation uses to refer to Xinjiang.
China has blamed Uighur groups for what it calls "terrorist" attacks in Xinjiang but details of alleged incidents are hard to confirm, and exile groups accuse China of exaggerating the threat to justify religious and cultural restrictions.
Xinjiang is a sparsely populated but strategically important area which borders several Central Asian countries. Uighurs make up 46 percent of Xinjiang's population.
It is periodically hit by violent clashes, including riots in the region's capital Urumqi in 2009 which left around 200 dead, but information is often hard to obtain.
Police have arrested at least 139 people in Xinjiang in recent months for allegedly "spreading jihad", according to state-run media.
In August state-run media said that a policeman had been killed in an "anti-terrorism" operation - although overseas reports said 22 Uighurs died in the incident.

 Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
 are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
 or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
 global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
 accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.

A crew of underground rappers in Havana fight for a free Cuba by taking the young to task over their apathy.
Aboriginal communities taking their cases against oil pipeline and seismic testing to Supreme Court of Canada.
Who dies and where they were shot determines how much attention their deaths get and how many questions are asked.
The Gulf’s ace women's tennis player is putting the region on the world tennis map and eyeing an historic Olympic spot.
Health ministry says 11 people killed at Zaventem airport, shortly before another blast kills 15 at Maelbeek station.
Latest updates from the Belgian capital and reactions from around the world after deadly explosions strike.
Nigeria's first female mechanic views her country through the prism of opportunity and enterprise for women.
Latin American migrants risk life and limb to reach the US border in search of the American dream.
The incredible story of 18 cows that became Israel's most wanted fugitives and symbols of Palestinian resistance.