2013-07~12
http://www.bignewsnetwork.com/index.php/sid/219368576/scat/b8de8e630faf3631/ht/Eight-people-shot-killed-by-police-in-Chinas-Xinjiang-region

Eight people shot killed by police in China Xinjiang region
Our eNewspaper network was founded in 2002 to provide stand-alone digital news sites tailored for the most searched-for locations for news. With a traditional newspaper format, more than 100 sites were established each with a newspaper-type name to cover the highest-ranked regions, countries, cities and states. Each site operates independently providing around-the-clock local news coverage, global & business updates, RSS feeds, and news releases.
Established in 1999, each News.Net site specializes in local news, weather, international headlines, business and finance reports. The News.Net directory of sites covers every major region, country and city around the world, as well as U.S. states and industry sectors. Each independently-operated portal is networked throughout the social media spectrum and is administered by Mainstream Media EC on behalf of Big News Network.
It was the second such incident in the same region this month. Sixteen people, including two police officers, died in a similar clash during an attack near Kashgar town, China's official media reported. As in the previous incident, the reports on Monday's clashes did not identify the ethnicity of the victims.
The incident happened during a terrorist attack in Yarkand County, close to the old Silk Road city of Kashgar, the China Daily reported, quoting the Xinjiang-Uighur government's official news website www.ts.cn.
"At around 6:30 am, nine thugs carrying knives attacked a police station in Kashgar's Yarkand county, throwing explosive devices and setting police cars on fire," the brief report said. "The police took decisive measures, shooting dead eight and capturing one."
Other details were not immediately available and the official media said the incident was being investigated further.
The Xinjiang-Uighur region is close to the border with Pakistan and Afghanistan. Muslim Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking minority in China, resent being ruled by the majority Han Chinese.
China maintains foreign Uighur groups linked to the East Turkistan Islamic Movement are to blame for the trouble in the region. However, the World Uighur Congress, based in Stockholm, Sweden, disputes the allegations.
Advocates of Uighur self-determination and international human rights groups have said China's heavy-handed security policies in Xinjiang are only crating more ethnic tensions.
Last October, Chinese authorities blamed Uighurs for a vehicle incident in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in which five people died, including three in the vehicle, and 40 more were injured. In 2009, riots broke out in Urumqi, capital of the region, in which about 200 people died. 
