2013-07~12
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2013-11-24/uighur-separatist-group-says-tiananmen-square-car-attack-was-jihadi-operation-predicts-more-violence/1224410

Uighur separatist group says Tiananmen Square car attack was "jihadi operation", predicts more violence | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
An Islamist militant group calling itself the Turkestan Islamic Party said last month's deadly car crash in Beijing's Tiananmen Square was a "jihadi operation".
An Islamist militant group calling itself the Turkestan Islamic Party said last month's deadly car crash in Beijing's Tiananmen Square was a "jihadi operation" by holy warriors, the US-based SITE monitoring service said.
The service, which tracks Islamist militant statements, says the party released an eight-minute video online showing the organisation's leader Abdullah Mansour speaking in Uighur with his face obscured.
"Chinese unbelievers, know that you have been fooling East Turkestan for the last 60 years, but now they have awakened," Mansour said.
"The people have learned who the real enemy is and they have returned to their own religion."
Three Xinjiang Uighurs drove a car loaded with petrol canisters into the gate of the Forbidden City on October 28, Chinese police say.
The incident left two people dead, besides the three in the car, and 40 injured.
China had previously stated that the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) were the "behind-the-scenes supporters" of the terrorist attack.
Some security analysts believe the Turkestan Islamic Party is the parent of the East Turkestan Independence Movement, a group that China and the United States have placed on terror lists. Others say both names refer to the same group.
The stated goals of the Turkestan Islamic Party is to secure the independence of "East Turkestan", located in the far north west of China's Xinjiang province, with a population of mostly muslim Uighurs.
It was unclear if the video posted online includes an explicit claim of responsibility, and there has been no mention of it in Chinese state media.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.