2013-07~12
http://www.rt.com/news/us-guantanamo-release-prisoners-031/

US flies three final Chinese ethnic Uighurs from Guantanamo to Slovakia — RT News

 The ethnic Uighurs Muslim detainees were flown to Bratislava from
 the US military prison on the island of Cuba, according to an
 announcement made by Pentagon and State department officials on
 Tuesday. Yusef Abbas, Saidullah Khalik, and Hajiakbar Abdul
 Ghuper volunteered to resettle in Slovakia. The country accepted
 three former inmates in 2010.
 
 Twenty-two Chinese Uighurs had been imprisoned at Guantanamo
 after being captured by US forces in Afghanistan, according to a
 Wikileaks-published prisoner list. Six have already been sent to
 Palau, a pacific island, and 11 others have been dispersed
 between Bermuda, Albania and Switzerland.
 
 While none of the detainees were deemed terror suspects, the US
 was unable to repatriate the Uighurs as the Chinese government
 has a history of mistreating the group as the central Asian
 border region of Xinjiang has been home to some ethnic unrest.
 Some were believed to have had weapons training at an Afghan
 camp, according to the US.
 
 A judge ordered the release of the remaining three in 2008, they
 were held at the prison camp because of problems in finding
 somewhere that would actually take them. The US government
 expressed its gratitude to Slovakia for its ‘humanitarian
 gesture’, Rear Adm. John Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary,
 told the New York Times.
 
 Nine detainees have left Guantanamo in December, and 11 since
 last summer. In April US President Barack Obama expressed his
 wish to renew efforts to close the prison, which has held
 prisoners since 2001, starting out with some 750.
 
 In February, many of the men being held at the Guantanamo Bay
 detention facility launched a hunger strike against camp
 conditions. It was sparked by disrespectful treatment of the
 Quran. One month into the strike, attorneys for the men, many
 housed at the facilities infamous Camp 6, said the number
 refusing food had reached 100.
 
 Following intense efforts to break detainees’ spirits, the number
 of strikers dwindled to 15 by December. That month, the US
 military announced it would no longer disclose information about
 the hunger strikes, saying its release “serves no operational
 purpose”.