2013-07~12
http://www.mercurynews.com/nation-world/ci_24419564/wire-sebelius-hot-seat-india-bus-fire-china

The Wire: Sebelius on hot seat; India bus fire; China arrests; Israeli building plans; sex injury ruling - San Jose Mercury News
National editor's pick of the top news stories in the nation and world at this hour:
Kathleen Sebelius wasn't getting a lot of HealthCare.lov on Capitol Hill Wednesday as a House committee grilled her about the Affordable Care Act and its malfunctioning website. "I am as frustrated and angry as anyone with the flawed launch of HealthCare.gov," the Health and Human Services secretary said in remarks before the Energy and Commerce Committee. "So let me say directly to these Americans: You deserve better. I apologize. I'm accountable to you for fixing these problems." Sebelius' mea culpa did not assuage confrontational Republican critics, two of whom demanded to know why she herself wasn't on the new health care exchange, while she insisted that under the law she was not eligible. Despite myriad technical problems with the website, she claimed, "The website has never crashed" -- prompting critics to hold up computers showing that the HealthCare.gov website had a message up right then saying, "The system is down at the moment." Questioning from Republicans was hostile, with many of them interrupting and arguing with her answers, while Democrats acknowledged problems but tried to put a milder face on them.
A loaded bus in India crashed into a highway barrier and caught fire Wednesday, killing 45 passengers who were locked into the overnight cabin compartment as the driver fled, authorities said. The Bangalore-to-Hyderabad bus was carrying 50 passengers, seven over capacity, and only five were able to escape through a window in front, plus the driver and a bus cleaner. The other passengers were trapped inside the sleeper bus, which had an automatic locking system controlled by the driver, said police official Pradeep, who goes by one name. Police detained the driver and bus cleaner for questioning and filed charges including negligence against the bus operator, Jabbar Travels.
China said Wednesday it has arrested five people in connection with the suicide car crash in Beijing's Forbidden City that killed three people inside the car and two tourists. A statement on a Beijing police blog said the attackers had been identified as a man with an ethnic Uighur name, his wife and his mother. The five people suspected of conspiring in the attack also had names associated with the Uighurs, the restive Muslim minority in western China. Two tourists, including a Filipina woman, were killed as the vehicle sped down a crowded sidewalk, and 38 people were injured. Knives, iron rods, gasoline and a flag imprinted with religious slogans were found in the vehicle, police said. The five people detained had helped plan and execute the attack, and were caught 10 hours after it was carried out, police said. Uighur extremism is generally seen as fueled by heavy-handed Chinese rule in Xinjiang and discrimination against them by China's ethnic Han majority.
Israel said Wednesday it planned to build 1,500 new apartments in East Jerusalem on land claimed by Palestinians -- a provocation that will undoubtedly cast a pall on struggling peace talks. The new construction was seen as an attempt by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to make up for the overnight release of Palestinian prisoners, for which he has faced sharp criticism, although it was done to further peace negotiations. The 1,500 apartments are to be built in Ramat Shlomo, a sprawling settlement in East Jerusalem, Interior Ministry spokeswoman Lital Apter said Wednesday. Israel also plans to develop an archaeology and tourism site near the Old City, she said. Israel's annexation of East Jerusalem, seized in the 1967 Six-Day War, is not internationally recognized, but Israel considers all of Jerusalem its eternal capital, while Palestinians claim East Jerusalem as their capital.
Getting hurt while having sex is not an occupational hazard worthy of workers comp unless your employer required you to have sex, Australia's highest court ruled Wednesday, denying the claim of a woman injured by a light fixture while having recreational sex on a business trip. Reversing a lower court, the High Court in Canberra ruled 4-2 that the woman's employer, the federal government, did not induce her to participate in the sex, so the government insurer Comcare was not liable to compensate her. The woman, who by law cannot be identified, and a colleague were having sex in her motel room when a glass light fixture fell on her face, injuring her nose and mouth, and she later claimed she was too depressed to keep working. Her compensation claim was at first approved, then denied, then went through a series of reversals until Wednesday's ruling, which is final.
The Wire, a summary of top national and world news stories from the Associated Press and other wire services, moves weekdays. Contact Karl Kahler at 408-920-5023; follow him at twitter.com/karl_kahler.