2013-07~12
http://www.laprensasa.com/309_america-in-english/2286420_1-dead-in-bombing-at-communist-party-office-in-china.html

1 Dead in bombing at Communist Party office in China :: La Prensa :: America in English
Police investigate after homemade bombs went off Wednesday outside a Chinese Communist Party office in the central province of Shanxi, leaving one person dead and eight others injured. State-run CCTV said the bombs were hidden in flowerbeds on the side of a 12-lane road near the official building. EFE
Beijing, Nov 6 (EFE).- One person was killed and eight others were injured when homemade bombs went off Wednesday outside a Chinese Communist Party office in the central province of Shanxi, police said.
The incident comes nine days after five people died and 40 others were injured when a vehicle plowed into a crowd and burst into flames in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, and just three days before top Communist Party leaders are due to come together for a major policy meeting in the Chinese capital.
The explosions occurred at around 7:40 a.m. outside the office in Taiyuan, the provincial capital, Shanxi authorities said.
State-run CCTV said the bombs were hidden in flowerbeds on the side of a 12-lane road near the official building.
Photos uploaded to Chinese social-networking sites showed nails and ball bearings strewn around the area where the blasts took place.
The discovery of the steel beads and circuit boards indicate the bombs were self-made, official news agency Xinhua said.
The incident comes just three days prior to the inauguration of a meeting of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, in which a broad series of reforms to the Asian giant's investment- and export-driven economic model are expected to be unveiled.
Chinese authorities have not yet blamed any group for the Taiyuan explosions.
The Chinese government said the Oct. 28 suicide attack in Tiananmen Square, in which all three people inside the vehicle and two tourists were killed, was perpetrated by Muslim Uighur separatists in Xinjiang province.
Beijing called that incident a terrorist attack and police announced the arrests of five suspects two days later.
In his daily press conference Wednesday, the spokesman for China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Hong Lei, refused to give details on the Taiyuan explosions, saying only that the Ministry of Public Security "will provide information in due time."