2013-07~12
http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/news/agencia-efe/131231/us-frees-last-3-uighurs-guantanamo

U.S. frees last 3 Uighurs from Guantanamo | GlobalPost
Washington, Dec 31 (EFE).- The United States transferred to Slovakia the last three Uighurs among the prisoners at the U.S. Navy base in Guantanamo, Cuba, the Pentagon said Tuesday.
Yusef Abbas, Saidullah Khalik and Hajiabkar Abdul Ghuper were freed in compliance with an October 2008 federal court order and moved voluntarily to Slovakia, according to the Defense Department statement.
Abbas, 33, Khalik, 36, and Ghuper, 40, were held at Guantanamo for 11 years and six months.
They were the last among the 22 Uighurs from China captured after the United States invaded Afghanistan in response to the al-Qaeda terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.
As early as 2003 the U.S. military came to the conclusion that the Uighurs were not enemy combatants fighting against the United States, and in 2006 the administration of President George W. Bush sent five Uighur prisoners from Guantanamo to Albania.
The others remained prisoners at Guantanamo more than five years after the court order to free them was issued because the United States could not find a country that would accept them, in part because of pressure from the Chinese government, which classifies Uighur separatists as terrorists.
President Barack Obama promised during his 2008 electoral campaign that he would close the prison at Guantanamo, but ran into congressional opposition and the refusal of other countries to accept those released.
Cliff Sloan, a State Department official whom President Obama charged with renewing efforts to release all Guantanamo prisoners, said that all the Uighurs have now been relocated to six different countries.
In 2009 the Obama administration tried to settle two of the prisoners in a Uighur community in Virginia, but the move was blocked by the opposition in Congress, which imposed even more restrictions on the transfer of prisoners.
"The United States is grateful to the government of Slovakia for this humanitarian gesture and its willingness to support U.S. efforts to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facility," Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said.
The mainly Muslim Uighurs are the largest ethnic group in the northwestern Chinese province of Xinjiang.
The release of the three Guantanamo detainees comes a day after eight Uighur militants died in a clash with Chinese police.
The Uighurs, a Turkic people, complain that China is seeking to suppress their culture and religion and that Beijing's policies in Xinjiang favor Han Chinese settlers.
China, meanwhile, seeks to portray Uighur militancy as a facet of international Islamic terrorism.