2013-07~12
http://www.timeslive.co.za/thetimes/2013/09/26/china-to-rent-5-of-ukraine

China 'to rent 5% of Ukraine' - Times LIVE

 The man accused of trying to swindle convicted murderer Oscar Pistorius appeared in the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria.

 Zimbabwe's former freedom fighters have passed a vote of no confidence in Deputy President Phekezela Mphoko, accusing him of fanning factionalism and tribalism within the ruling Zanu-PF party, reports NewsDay.

 A ship loaded with weapons-grade plutonium left Japan for the United States in what is the largest such shipment of the highly dangerous material since 1992, the environmental group Greenpeace said.

 The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) on Tuesday chose not to attack Jackson Mthembu’s “weaknesses”‚ and hoped “that he will be able to concede to superior logic during debates and deliberations” in his new job.

 Kaizer Chiefs held Asec Mimosas to a 0-0 draw in the second leg of their Caf Champions League first-round tie at Houphouet Boigny Stadium in Abidjan on Sunday‚ which was not enough to prevent Amakhosi exiting 1-0 on aggregate.

 Joe Pietersen missed a simple penalty after the hooter to leave the Sharks and Bulls tied for a 16-16 draw at Loftus on Friday.

 AB de Villiers announced himself at the World Twenty20 with a swashbuckling 64 and made Afghanistan pay heavily for dropping him twice as South Africa revived their campaign with a 37-run victory at the Wankhede Stadium on Sunday.

 With another $6.3-million up for grabs when the PGA Tour completes its Florida swing, it is an opportune moment to salute the prime architect behind such riches.

 More than two dozen players who feature in evidence collected from gamblers should be investigated for possible links to betting rings, an Italian prosecutor has told the BBC and BuzzFeed News.

 Nico Rosberg capitalised on a slow start off pole by world champion teammate Lewis Hamilton and superior tyre strategy over Ferrari to win the season-opening Australian Grand Prix on Sunday.

 In the build-up to a fight, it's not just Hekkie Budler who makes sacrifices - wife Roxy also has to do her bit.

 Michael Jackson's children will reportedly lose most of their R19,594,205,244 inheritance to tax bills and other debts.

 The Who's Roger Daltrey, musician Jools Holland and producer Pete Waterman are involved in opening a R135,662,495 model-railway exhibition centre in Kent.

 Zebra & Giraffe has announced that they are splitting up after eight years.

 Sunday Times and Delta Airlines are giving away three pairs of plane tickets to any American city.

 It was back in 2012 that the United Nations first declared March 20 International Day of Happiness, to recognize happiness as not only a universal goal of all human beings, but also to encourage both organizations and individuals to help increase happiness through...

 Erectile dysfunction (ED) is not just for older men. While studies show that even younger men battle the condition, most men may not be ready to talk about it.

 Dr Michael Mol and John Berry's new cookbook is aimed at the everyday family cook who has their eye on healthier meals, but that doesn't mean dessert is off the menu. Try their recipe for chocolate tartlets

 If you sign a contract that includes a clause which is not compliant with the Consumer Protection Act, does that mean that you forfeit that protection?

 Progress in reducing carbon intensity in the travel and tourism industry can be attributed to several actions, according to a new report by the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC).

 Although “no incidents involving defective inflators have been reported” Honda Motor Southern Africa on Thursday “expanded its recall campaign to replace Takata-supplied airbag inflators”.

 Plants respond a bit better to global warming than scientists had thought, according to a new study that suggests their potential contribution to worsening global warming is not likely as bad as researcher believed.

 The letter by Ziyana Lategan published in this space on Friday 18 March 2016 (An open letter to Unisa's Mandla Makhanya) cannot go unchallenged.

 All data is delayed by 15 min. Data supplied by Profile Data 
 Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.

It would be the biggest "land grab" agreement, in which one country leases or sells land to another, in a trend that has been compared to the 19th-century "scramble for Africa", but which is now spreading to the vast and fertile plains of eastern Europe.
Under the 50-year plan, China would eventually control three million hectares, which represents 9% of Ukraine's arable land. Initially 100000 hectares would be leased.
The farmland in the eastern Dnipropetrovsk region would be cultivated principally for growing crops and raising pigs. The produce will be sold at preferential prices to Chinese state-owned conglomerates, said Xinjiang Production and Construction.
Xinjiang said on Tuesday that it had signed the £1.7-billion (R27-billion) agreement in June with KSG Agro, Ukraine's leading agricultural company. I t said it had only reached agreement for the Chinese to modernise 3000 hectares .
Any sort of "land-grab" deal can be highly sensitive politically. Madagascar was forced to scrap a plan to lease 1.2 million hectares to South Korea in 2009 after angry protests against "neo-colonialism". The Philippines has also blocked a China investment deal. - ©The Daily Telegraph