2013-07~12
http://reason.com/blog/2013/12/31/final-three-uighur-prisoners-released-fr

Final Three Uighur Prisoners Released From Guantanamo Bay - Hit & Run : Reason.com
Credit: AslanMedia / Foter.com / CC BY-NC-NDThe final three Uighur prisoners have been
freed from the prison at Guantanamo Bay, a move that has been
described by the Pentagon as a 
“significant milestone.”
The men had been detained for over a decade, despite the fact
that military assessments found that they had 
no ties to Al Qaeda or the Taliban. Although a federal judge
ruled that the men had been unlawfully detained in 2008 their
release was delayed because of what 
The Washington Post described as "repeated legal
wrangling and attempts to find a country willing to accept them."
Slovakia has accepted the men, and the Slovakian
interior minister has said that they are not terror suspects.
According to the BBC, the U.S.
does not “repatriate Uighur detainees to China because of the risk
they could be mistreated.”
The BBC notes that there are still 155 prisoners at Guantanamo
Bay, a reduction from over 750.
While he was a presidential candidate then-Senator Obama

promised that he would close the prison at Guantanamo Bay when
he became president. However, as ABC’s 
Matt Negrin explained back in July, Obama has faced opposition
to closing the prison in Congress, another reminder that promises
are easier to make than they are to keep:
Obama has run into plenty of opposition in Congress. Lawmakers
passed a bill preventing federal money from being used to transfer
Guantanamo prisoners to the United States. Obama signed that bill
into law, even as he issued a statement that disapproved of it. The
provision was part of a bigger military bill that Obama said was
too important not to sign.
Republicans, in particular, say that Guantanamo must stay open
to keep terrorists there.
Last week, Obama 
signed the NDAA for FY 2014, which included the easing of
restrictions on transferring detainees into custody abroad. The ban
on transferring Guantanamo Bay detainees to the U.S. is still in
place.
In 
a statement on the signing of the bill Obama said:
The continued operation of the facility weakens our national
security by draining resources, damaging our relationships with key
allies and partners and emboldening violent extremists.
For the past several years, the Congress has enacted unwarranted
and burdensome restrictions that have impeded my ability to
transfer detainees from Guantanamo. Earlier this year I again
called upon the Congress to lift these restrictions and, in this
bill, the Congress has taken a positive step in that direction.
The detention facility at Guantanamo continues to impose
significant costs on the American people.
Matthew Feeney is a former assistant editor at Reason 24/7.
Editor's Note: We invite comments and request that they be civil and on-topic. We do not moderate or assume any responsibility for comments, which are owned by the readers who post them. Comments do not represent the views of Reason.com or Reason Foundation. We reserve the right to delete any comment for any reason at any time. Report abuses.
According to the BBC, the U.S. does not “repatriate Uighur
detainees to China because of the risk they could be
mistreated."
Yeah, they might end up in a prison camp without due
process.
Can't Obama just vow to close it again, likes he's been doing
since 2008? That should solve everything.
I'm so glad he was elected twice so that he could keep promising
to close it someday.
Can we continually renew America's promise to close the prison
at Guantanamo Bay?
See, it's hope for change that marks this administration. We are
perpetually denied change so that we can continue to hope for
it.
Well, shit, maybe Obama should have invested all that political
capital he put into giving piles of money to insurance companies
into closing this moral horrorshow instead. That would require a
conscience, though.
I find it funny that he's willing to step all over Congress and
do whatever the hell he wants with shit like Libya and Obamacare,
but not Gitmo.
One wonders if he really, truly wants to close the
place. /facetious
Personally, I think he wants to retire there. He's having the
inmates brainwashed into being total slaves to him.
KK, his hands are tied. If your weren't such a slave to
patriarchy you would understand.
Not exactly opposition when he's the one signing the law that
forces him to break his own promise, is it?
And all that elides the fact that in the absolute best-case
scenario, all Obama planned to do was open a facility functionally
identical to Guantanamo a few hundred miles north.
I know I'm preaching to the choir here, but I think it's
important to always point these things out so that the propaganda
narrative doesn't take hold...
LMAO! Heaven forbid that the U.S. would ever facilitate the
mistreatment of anyone.
I'd hope for Switzerland if I were one of them. An isolated
country that doesn't give two shits what the rest of the world
thinks.
Welllllll, I would not go that far. But they can, and
do, put up a stoic "sorry, we are neutral" face when they want to
disregard some outside pressures.
You know what goes through Obama's mind when these
inconsistencies seep through the walled garden of bliss he
inhabits?
Don't try your Jedi mind-melding tricks on me, old man.
I never understood how Bush was the bad guy for keeping Muslims
from being abused by their home countries. But he had an "R" after
his name, so of course he deserved no benefit.
Why couldn't we have just settled these guys in Orange County?
Why did Slovakia, Bermuda, Albania and CH have to get involved?