2013-07~12
http://news.asiaone.com/news/asia/china-state-media-says-tiananmen-attack-cost-8000

China state media says Tiananmen attack cost $8,000, AsiaOne Asia News
BEIJING - China's state broadcaster said a deadly attack in Tiananmen Square cost eight "terrorists" US$6500 (S$8,000) to execute, as a rights group reported dozens of arrests in connection with the incident.





 

The high-profile car crash on Monday killed two tourists and injured dozens at the popular site and symbolic heart of the Chinese state. The three people in the car - a man, his wife and his mother - all died in the crash, according to police.
China's state-run broadcaster CCTV said late Friday on a verified social media account that the attack had been planned since September and had a "budget" of 40,000 yuan (S$8,000).
The broadcaster said that the group of eight had possessed weapons - including "Tibetan knives and 400 litres of petrol" - and had stayed at a hotel in west Beijing before five of them returned to Xinjiang's capital Urumqi, leaving three others to carry out the attack using a Mercedes SUV.
The reports came as as a Uighur rights group said that more than 50 people had been arrested in the restive far western region of Xinjiang, where China's mostly Muslim Uighur minority is concentrated.
China's top security official has blamed separatist group East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) for backing the attacks.
ETIM is known as a militant Islamic group that seeks an independent state in Xinjiang.
But CCTV did not mention the ETIM and said that eight people from Xinjiang "decided to set up a terrorist group" in September.
It did not specify the ethnicity of the group's members. Names of suspects released by police appear to mark them out as members of the Uighur minority, who say they suffer religious and cultural repression in China.
A spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress, a Uighur exile group previously blamed for promoting violence by Beijing, said Saturday that 53 people had been arrested in Xinjiang in a police crackdown over the past two days.
"China has tightened its local repression since the Tiananmen incident...which could at any time lead to new conflicts between Uighurs and the Chinese government," Dilshat Rexit, a spokesman for the group, said in an emailed statement.
Chinese state-run media have reported periodic bouts of violence in Xinjiang which Beijing often describes as "terrorist attacks".
But Uighur organisations dismiss claims of terrorism and separatism as an excuse by Beijing to justify religious and security restrictions.
Chinese authorities investigating what could be Beijing's first major suicide attack searched on Tuesday for two men from Muslim-dominated Xinjiang after three people suspected to be from the restive region drove an SUV into a crowd at Tiananmen Square and set it on fire.
Chinese police on Monday evacuated Beijing's Tiananmen Square, the site of 1989 pro-democracy protests bloodily suppressed by the government, following a fire after a car ran into a crowd.
They killed themselves and two tourists on Monday in the square, the heart of China's power structure and the focal point of the mass 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations brutally crushed the military.
Satellite image locating the site where five people were killed on Monday when a car ploughed into pedestrians and caught fire in Beijing.
Police are still investigating and have yet to determine the identities of the three people in the sport utility vehicle but suspect they are from Xinjiang, according to the sources. The other dead were a Chinese man and a woman from the Philippines, both tourists.
However, Beijing police said late on Monday they were looking for two suspects from Xinjiang in connection with a "major incident" - though it was unclear if these were the people in the vehicle or accomplices still at large.
The sources said that the occupants were suspected of lighting a flammable substance in the vehicle.
China's government has given no official word on whether the incident was an accident or an attack.
A security personnel walks past in front of the giant portrait of the late Chinese Chairman Mao Zedong as other policemen clean up after a car accident at the Tiananmen Square in Beijing October 28, 2013.
Two senior sources said on Tuesday the crash, which also injured 38 bystanders at perhaps the most closely guarded location in China, was suspected of being a suicide attack carried out by people from Xinjiang. It was initially believed to be an accident.
Policemen set up barriers in front of the giant portrait of the late Chinese chairman Mao Zedong as they clean up after a car accident at the Tiananmen Square in Beijing, October 28, 2013.
A police officer sets up barriers in front of the giant portrait of the late Chinese Chairman Mao Zedong as police clean up after a car accident at the Tiananmen Square in Beijing October 28, 2013.
Police have spread a dragnet across the capital, checking hotels and vehicles, seeking two people suspected to be ethnic Uighurs, a Muslim minority from Xinjiang in China's far west, on the borders of former Soviet Central Asia.
"It looks like a pre-meditated suicide attack," said a source with direct knowledge of the matter, speaking on condition of anonymity to avoid repercussions for talking to the foreign media.
A paramilitary policeman detains a woman who threw papers believed to be her petition papers near the main entrance of the Forbidden City, where the giant portrait of late Chinese Chairman Mao Zedong is hanged and the car incident happened on Monday, in Beijing October 29, 2013.
Tourists are seen next to Tiananmen Gate, in Beijing, October 29, 2013.
Fire extinguishers are routinely dotted around Tiananmen Sq in case of self-immolations.
Get the latest news, opinion, trends, coverage, reports and more from AsiaOne—straight to your inbox! Or download our apps from Apple store or Google Play.