2013-07~12
http://www.broadwayworld.com/bwwgeeks/article/Daqo-New-Energy-Announces-Expansion-Plan-for-Its-Polysilicon-Facilities-in-Xinjiang-20131122

Daqo New Energy Announces Expansion Plan for Its Polysilicon Facilities in Xinjiang
CHONGQING, China, Nov. 22, 2013 /PRNewswire/ Daqo New Energy Corp. (NYSE: DQ) ("Daqo New Energy" or the "Company"), a leading polysilicon manufacturer based in China, today announced that the Board has officially approved the Company's plan to expand its polysilicon capacity in Xinjiang to 12,000 metric ton (MT) per annum.
In the 12 th Five-Year Plan for Solar PV Industry, China will implement differentiated policies to optimize the geographic layout of polysilicon industry by best leveraging the energy advantages in the western regions like Xinjiang. In August, Chinese Vice President Mr. Li Yuanchao visited Daqo New Energy's Xinjiang polysilicon facilities, highly recognized our achievements and encouraged the Company to further strengthen its advantages in technology, cost and quality.
Currently the annual capacity for our Xinjiang facilities is 5,000 MT, which will be raised to 6,150 MT by the end of 2013. The Company plans to further increase the capacity to 12,000 MT and expects to complete the construction and start trail run by the end of 2014. According to the amended investing agreement with the local government of Shihezi City, the Company will enjoy a 3% discount on electricity rate when we fully ramp up the capacity.
"Based on the excellent performance of our current Xinjiang facilities and the firm belief in the promising opportunities in solar PV industry, the Board has approved to accelerate the progress of our long term growth plans," commented Dr. Gongda Yao, Chief Executive Officer of Daqo New Energy. "We have demonstrated our capability by achieving one of the lowest cost structures and the first class quality for polysilicon manufacturing. We believe with the completion of our expansion plan, we will play a more important role to support the industry by providing low cost and high quality polysilicon products, so as to make solar PV more accessible and affordable in the future."


ART - Andrea Rosen Gallery to Display Lizzie Fitch/Ryan Trecartin Exhibit, Today



FITNESS - Review: St. Patrick's Day Kinsale 4 Miler - The Party Continues With Another Stellar Event



MUSIC - VIDEO: First Look - Meghan Trainor Shares Music Video for New Single 'No'

CLASSICAL - Interview: J'nai Bridges Morphs from Sports to Suzuki in SDO Butterfly


OPERA - Interview: Tenor Matthew Polenzani - Boy Toy of the Tudor Queens



DANCE - Review: HONG KONG BALLET Brings Contemporary Ballets to the Joyce



COMEDY - VIDEO: John Oliver Tears Down Donald Trump's Wall on LAST WEEK TONIGHT
