2013-07~12
http://thehimalayantimes.com/rssReference.php?headline=Police+shoot+dead+eight+during+attack+in+China%27s+Xinjiang&NewsID=401298

The Himalayan Times
A man throws coloured vermilion powder during celebrations of Holi festival, at Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu, on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: Skanda Gautam
KATHMANDU: Police said they arrested 226 persons from Kathmandu Valley for their alleged involvement in untoward activities during the Holi celebration on Tuesday.
Police said 133 were nabbed from Kathmandu, 83 from Lalitpur and 10 from Bhaktapur.
Likewise, police also impounded 1,432 vehicles including two-wheelers for violating traffic rules in the Valley on the festive day.
Some of them were driving under the influence of alcohol, according to police.
The post 226 nabbed from Valley during Holi celebration appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Her guest was Prince Harry from the United Kingdom, who is currently on a five-day official visit to the Himalayan nation.
Harry had spent the Monday night at Tamang’s dilapidated house.
He was given a warm farewell by the villagers this morning with white tika on his forehead, garlands and his host’s blessings.
The octogenarian widow had offered the local dish of dhindo (porridge made from corn flours), gundruk (dried vegetables) and chicken curry to the Royal guest.
Meanwhile, the woman also requested the Prince to support living of her disabled son Chhetra Bahadur Tamang.
“His life will be difficult after my demise. Please do something, Sarkar!” the woman said addressing the Prince with the term which was used to address members of the then Royal family here.
“He said he will do something,” the hopeful Tamang said.
“I feel that the God was here at our home. I am too much happy.”
After playing Holi, the festival of colours with children of Gaunda village, Harry left for Pokhara today itself.
The post May you live 100 years, host blesses Prince Harry appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Superintendent of Police Janak Bhattarai said that Sub-Inspector Ram Bahadur Khatri collapsed all of a sudden at about 6 am today and died on the way to the District Hospital in Jaleshwar. Doctors at the hospital pronounced his death, he added.
A permanent resident of Raniswara VDC-3 in Gorkha, Khatri was posted at the Area Police Office in Gaushala in Mahottari during his last time.
The post Mahottari on-duty Police officer dies appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Munich-based Ifo said Tuesday that its main index rose to 106.7 points from 105.7 points the month before.
The increase was also more than anticipated. Market expectations were for a more modest rise to 106.0 points.
Industrial firms saw stronger demand for consumer goods, the institute said in a statement.
The improvement comes as fears about global trade and financial market turmoil seem to be easing after a shaky start to the year. Economist Carsten Brzeski at ING-DiBa said that “German businesses seem to have shaken off fears of long-lasting global slowdown.”
The Germany economy grew by a quarterly rate of 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter of last year, and enjoys a low unemployment rate of 4.3 percent that has helped buoy consumption.
Ifo surveys 7,000 businesses about their assessment of current conditions and their view of the future, both of which rose in the current survey.
The index is considered a leading indicator, meaning it suggests where the economy may be going in coming months.
The post Germany’s Ifo confidence index up after 3 monthly falls appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Singapore’s mass transit system has experienced a string of disruptions in recent years, denting the city-state’s reputation for efficiency.
A spokesman for transit operator SMRT Corp., Patrick Nathan, said the two men had worked for the company for two months and were undergoing on-the-job training at the time of Tuesday’s accident. He did not elaborate.
Singapore’s Straits Times newspaper said five maintenance personnel were walking along one set of tracks, and the two victims crossed over to the other tracks, where they were hit by the oncoming train.
The post 2 Singapore transit workers die after being hit by train appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Nadezhda Savchenko served in a volunteer battalion against Russia-backed rebels and was captured by separatist rebels in July 2014 in eastern Ukraine before she surfaced in Russia under disputed circumstances.
The Ukrainian government says Savchenko is a prisoner of war and should be released under current truce agreements in eastern Ukraine.
Prosecutors, who say Savchenko called in coordinates for the shelling that killed two journalists and several civilians in July 2014, have asked for a 23-year sentence in her case. Savchenko’s lawyers have said they think a conviction is certain.
The post Russian judge reads verdict in trial of Ukrainian pilot appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
The post Western Europe has seen a string of attacks in recent years appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
FILE – An Afghan National Army soldier stands guard at the gate of a Doctors Without Borders hospital in Kunduz, Afghanistan, on Thursday, October 15, 2015. Photo: AP
KUNDUZ: The new commander of US and NATO forces in Afghanistan apologised Tuesday to the people of Kunduz for the deadly attack on a hospital in the city last year that killed 42 people.
US Army General John Nicholson travelled to the northern city to meet local leaders and relatives of those who died in the October 3 attack.
A US Air Force AC-130 gunship attacked the hospital run by medical charity Doctors Without Borders in what Nicholson called a “horrible tragedy.”
Nicholson’s wife Norine accompanied him to Kunduz, along with acting defense minister Masoom Stanekzai.
More than a dozen US military personnel have been disciplined for mistakes that led to the sustained attack. A US military report on the hospital attack is expected to be released within days.
A separate US report on the incident obtained last fall by The Associated Press said the aircraft fired 211 shells at the hospital compound over 29 minutes before commanders realized the error and ordered a halt.
Afghan officials, including Stanekzai, insisted that Taliban fighters, who had overrun the city on September 28, were using the hospital as a base from which to attack Afghan forces. No evidence has been found to support the claims.
Doctors Without Borders, also known by its French initials MSF, immediately ceased operations in Kunduz and has yet to return. The hospital was the only trauma clinic in northern Afghanistan.
The Taliban’s insurgency spread across the previously peaceful north of the country last year, following the end of the international combat mission in 2014. Military leaders expect another year of fierce fighting amid uncertainty about the future of the peace process and talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban.
The post US Commander in Afghanistan apologises for hospital attack appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
British Prince Harry playing volleyball with the local students of Gainda Secondary School in Okhare of Lamjung, on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: RSS
LAMJUNG: Prince Harry from Britain on Tuesday played a friendly volleyball match in Lamjung district. The Royal’s team won the match.
Harry’s team defeated the opponents led by former Gurkha soldier captain Bal Krishna Gurung 25-19.
The Prince’s team included Tak Bahadur Thapa, Umesh Gurung, Jaya Prasad Gurung and Priyasi Gurung, all students of Gaunda Secondary School in Gaunda VDC of the district.
Likewise, Bal Krishna’s team included Yubaraj Gurung, Moti Thapa, Manoj Gurung, Junu Thapa and Kalpana Gurung, who are associated with the Gurkha Welfare Scheme.
The post Prince Harry plays, wins volleyball match in Lamjung appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Here are some pictures from celebrations of the colourful festival in Kathmandu:
The post Holi celebration in pictures appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Transportation Security Administration officers stopped the woman at random Friday, and she remained at large Monday, said Special Agent Timothy Massino with the US Drug Enforcement Administration.
The flight attendant was sent to a secondary screening area, but she quickly dropped her bag, ditched a pair of Gucci heels and fled barefoot downward an upward-moving escalator, said Marshall McClain, president of the union representing LAX airport police officers.
McClain said the case shows why all flight attendants and other airport employees need to be screened.
“With her bringing this amount of narcotics in the airport, chances are this wasn’t her first time through,” said McClain, head of the Los Angeles Airport Peace Officers Association.
Security threats from “insiders,” including airline and airport employees and workers hired by contractors, have been a focus of the TSA, particularly after the December 2014 arrest of several Delta Air Lines baggage handlers. Prosecutors allege they smuggled guns, including an AK-47, from Atlanta to New York.
The TSA has said that full screening of all employees would cost too much. Instead, the agency has urged airports to increase random screenings of workers and to keep background checks up to date.
“We will pay particular attention to the insider threat,” TSA Administrator Peter Neffenger told a Senate committee earlier this month.
The post US officials: Airline worker flees, cocaine found in bag appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Two women wounded in Brussels Airport in Brussels, Belgium, after explosions were heard on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. A developing situation left at least one person and possibly more dead in explosions that ripped through the departure hall at Brussels airport Tuesday, police said. All flights were canceled, arriving planes were being diverted and Belgium’s terror alert level was raised to maximum, officials said. Photo: Ketevan Kardava/ Georgian Public Broadcaster via AP
BRUSSELS: Two explosions tore through Brussels airport on Tuesday morning killing 13 people in what Belgian public broadcaster VRT called a suicide attack, and a further blast struck a metro station in the capital shortly afterwards.
The Belga agency said shots were fired and there were shouts in Arabic shortly before two blasts rang out at the airport. Pictures on social media showed smoke rising from the terminal building through shattered windows and passengers running away down a slipway, some still hauling their bags.
All public transport in Brussels was shut down, as it was in London during 2005 militant attacks on the underground that killed 52. The Belgian Crisis Centre, clearly wary of a further incident, appealed to the population: “Stay where you are”.
The blasts at the airport and metro station occurred four days after the arrest in Brussels of a suspected participant in November militant attacks in Paris that killed 130 people. Belgian police had been on alert for any reprisal action.
British Sky News television’s Alex Rossi, at the airport, said he heard two “very, very loud explosions”.
“I could feel the building move. There was also dust and smoke as well…I went towards where the explosion came from and there were people coming out looking very dazed and shocked.”
“The thinking here is that it is some kind of terrorist attack – that hasn’t been verified by any of the authorities here at the airport.”
The blasts triggered concern across western Europe with Britain calling a meeting of its crisis response committee. The Dutch military strengthening security at airports and borders and London’s major airports Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted and City said they were working to provide a high police presence.
Video showed devastation inside the departure hall with ceiling tiles and glass scattered across the floor. Some passengers emerged from the terminal with blood spattered over their clothes. A witness said the blasts occurred at a check-in desk.
A man is wounded in Brussels Airport in Brussels, Belgium, after explosions were heard on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: Ketevan Kardava/ Georgian Public Broadcaster via AP
The metro station hit by the explosion was Maelbeek, close to European Union institutions. There were no details immediately available of casualties in this second incident of the morning.
VRT said the blast went off on a carriage of the underground train but that no one was killed. Earlier, private broadcaster VTM had said there were reports of the metro death toll at 10.
Other media reports cited the transport authority saying the explosion was on a train travelling between Schuman and Maelbeek stations, close to the EU instutions.
A local journalist tweeted a photograph of a person lying covered in blood among smoke outside Maelbeek metro station, on the main Rue de la Loi avenue which connects central Brussels with the EU institutions.
Ambulances were ferrying the wounded away and sirens rang out across the area.
Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel said on his twitter feed: “We are following the situation minute by minute. Our priority concern is for the victims and those present in the airport.
“For now, we are asking everyone to avoid all movement.”
British Prime Minister David Cameron, whose country is also on a high security alert, expressed shock over the attack. “We will do everything we can to help.”
Brussels airport said it had cancelled all flights until at least 6 a.m. (0500 GMT) on Wednesday and the complex had been evacuated and trains to the airport had been stopped. Passengers were taken to coaches from the terminal that would remove them to a secure area.
All three main long-distance rail stations in Brussels were closed and train services on the cross-channel tunnel from London to Brussels were suspended.
Police did not give any confirmation of the cause of the blast. But there has been a high state of alert across western Europe for fear of militant attacks backed by Islamic State, which claimed responsibility for the Paris attack.
While most European airports are known for stringent screening procedures of passengers and their baggage, that typically takes place only once passengers have checked in and are heading to the departure gates.
Although there may be discreet surveillance, there is nothing to prevent member of the public walking in to the departure hall at Zaventem airport with heavy baggage.
Following an attempted ramraid attack at Glasgow Airport in 2007, several airports stepped up security at entrances by altering the pick-up and drop-off zones to prevent private cars getting too close to terminal buildings.
European stocks fell after the explosions, particularly travel sector stocks including airlines and hotels, pulling the broader indices down from multi-week highs. Safe-haven assets, gold and government bonds rose in price.
French citizen Salah Abdeslam, the prime surviving suspect for November’s Paris attacks on a stadium, cafes and a concert hall, was captured by Belgian police after a shootout on Friday.
Belgium’s Interior Minister, Jan Jambon, said on Monday the country was on high alert for a revenge attack.
“We know that stopping one cell can … push others into action. We are aware of it in this case,” he told public radio.
BRUSSELS: Brussels Media: at least 13 people killed in explosions at airport and subway station.
Authorities tell everyone in Brussels to remain where they are after explosions at airport, subway station
The post At least 13 people killed in explosions at Brussels airport and subway station appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
The United Launch Alliance Atlas V rocket and Orbital ATK Cygnus spacecraft stack sits on the launch pad at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Cape Canaveral, Florida, on Monday, March 21, 2016. Photo: Ben Smegelsky/NASA via AP
CAPE CANAVERAL: A space station supply ship is set to blast off Tuesday night with a commercial-quality 3-D printer for astronaut as well as public use — for a price — and the makings for a large-scale fire.
Don’t worry: The blaze is for scientific purposes only and won’t ignite until the unmanned craft is clear of the International Space Station at mission’s end. NASA project manager Gary Ruff said this blaze will be second in size only to the 1997 fire on the Russian Mir space station, which was caused by a defective oxygen-generating canister.
Orbital ATK’s capsule, named Cygnus after the swan constellation, holds nearly 8,000 pounds of station supplies for NASA. One-fourth of that is scientific research, including robotic grippers inspired by the tiny, sticky hair on geckos’ feet.
An Atlas rocket provided by United Launch Alliance will provide the ride from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. Excellent weather is forecast for the 11:05 p.m. launch.
A look at some of the experiments bound for the space station and its six-man crew:
NASA will deliberately set a fire inside the trash-packed Cygnus cargo ship, once it leaves the space station in May and is a safe distance away. Researchers want to understand how a fire spreads in weightlessness — how fast and how big does it get? The goal is to improve fire safety on future spacecraft. An electrical igniter will be used to light a yard-long cotton-fiberglass sheet inside a box. The burn should last 15 to 20 minutes, with a pair of cameras recording the flames and sensors making measurements. A week or so later, the capsule will burn up as planned over the Pacific. The test is called Saffire, short for Spacecraft Fire Experiment.
This new 3-D printer is an update to one launched to the space station in 2014. Northern California-based company Made In Space says the new printer is bigger and better. The first printer created items no bigger than an iPhone, this new printer will churn out items as big as an iPad mini. It will be controlled from the ground, with minimal input from the astronauts. The intention is to make 3-D items as needed for real-time use. But the company also is leasing the printer for groups interested in creating customized 3-D items in space. Some of the items will be returned to Earth aboard SpaceX Dragon capsules, according to the company.
A new camera will provide high-definition video of meteors entering Earth’s atmosphere. It should be ready to go well before the Perseids meteor shower in August. Southwest Research Institute’s Michael Fortenberry and his team want to analyze the chemical composition of incoming meteors. This is the third attempt to get the experiment to the space station; the first was destroyed in an Orbital launch explosion in 2014, the second in a SpaceX launch accident last June.
A spacecraft landing on an asteroid will need to anchor itself to avoid floating away, given the exceedingly low gravity. The question is: Will the anchor stay put or yank free? Researchers hope to better understand the loose, gravelly asteroid surface with a NASA experiment known as Strata. They’ve pulverized a hunk of meteorite discovered in Africa to simulate the surface material found on airless asteroids; 400 grams are on board. Silica glass shards also are making the trip, along with other materials stored in tubes, so researchers can see how they move around in weightlessness.
Some of nature’s best grippers can be found on the feet of geckos. Researchers at Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, have based their new mechanical spring-loaded grippers on the thousands of tiny sticky hairs found on geckos’ feet. Five handheld grippers will be tested on the space station; one will remain on board an entire year. Researchers envision using these so-called Gecko Grippers for robots’ hands and feet, allowing them to crawl around the outside of a spacecraft to perform inspections or repairs. The reusable grippers can be turned on and off, and adhere to multiple surfaces, making them ideal for future space station use, according to NASA scientist Pete Hasbrook.
The post Space station delivery rich in science and technology appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
FILE – An Indian women stands in front of an air cooler to cool herself on a hot summer day in Hyderabad, in the southern Indian state of Telangana, on May 31, 2015. Photo: AP
GENEVA: Hotter weather appears to be here to stay, El Nino or not, the UN weather agency said Monday, warning that the Paris climate accord last year shouldn’t give way to complacency about global warming.
The World Meteorological Organisation issued its annual climate report following a record-hot 2015, highlighting records already announced by different countries’ weather agencies. The agency pointed out that not only was 2015 breaking records on the surface but also hundreds of meters deep in the ocean.
And the first two months of 2016 were even hotter, so startling that they “have sent shockwaves around the climate sciencecommunity,” David Carlson of the World Climate Research Programme said in a statement.
Climate scientists blame record high temperatures last year and this year so far on a combination of a super-sized El Nino, which is a natural warming of parts of the Pacific that changes weather worldwide, on top of a long-term global warming trend from the burning of fossil fuels.
NASA said last month was 1.35 degrees Celsius (2.43 degrees Fahrenheit) warmer than average. Of that, 0.8 degrees (1.44 degrees Fahrenheit) comes from the long-term warming and 0.25 degrees (0.45 degrees Fahrenheit) from El Nino, with the rest unexplained residual, calculated climate scientist Stefan Rahmstorf of the Potsdam Institute in Germany and the University of New South Wales.
Even after the El Nino phenomenon abates in coming months, way above normal temperatures won’t exactly go away, Carlson and others said.
“We’re on a slope; sometimes the slope goes very steep, sometimes it’s a little bit more shallow, but we’re going upward,” Carlson said in a news conference. “So the normal is going to be increases: It’s going to be increased temperature, increased ocean heat content, loss of ice, we know all of these things.”
Katharine Hayhoe, a Texas Tech climate scientist who wasn’t part of the WMO team, agreed: “These records vividly illustrate the destructive power of an El Nino on climate change steroids.”
The WMO predicts warmer weather accompanied by pockets of both drier and wetter conditions, depending on the region, around the world.
WMO Secretary-General Petteri Taalas told reporters in Geneva that many people believe the climate issue is “solved … since we reached a nice agreement in Paris.” But, he said, “we haven’t changed our behavior yet.”
The post UN: After hot 2015, new normal is hotter world temperatures appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
The deceased has been identified as 27-year-old Shanta Lal Moktan of Korak VDC-7, informed Inspector Satya Narayan Thapa of the Ward Police Office, Narayangadh.
Police said Thapa went missing after a boat ferrying four turned turtle in the River. Apart from Thapa, one was rescued immediately while two others swam outside the River to save themselves.
Thapa was found at 6:30 am on Tuesday near the shore of Narayani River.
The post Youth found dead in Narayani appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
US soccer team forward Clint Dempsey speaks to the press before the start of practice at Barry University in Miami Shores, Florida, on Monday March 21, 2016. Photo: AP
MIAMI: Clint Dempsey is expected to play his first game with the US since October when the national team plays a World Cup qualifying match Friday in Guatemala.
The 33-year-old Dempsey was left off the USA roster for two qualifying matches in November. Coach Jurgen Klinsmann cited the need to look at younger players.
“It’s not really up to me,” said Dempsey, in reference to not playing last fall. “It is and it isn’t. It is in that you have to keep working hard and playing. But it’s up to the coaching staff to make the decisions, and I’m happy to be a part of these important games.”
The Americans could use his scoring touch. Dempsey has 48 goals while playing for the US, second in history behind the 57 scored by Landon Donovan. He’s also the all-time leading scorer against Guatemala with five goals.
Dempsey last played for the national team on Oct. 10 in the Confederations Cup loss to Mexico.
Jozy Altidore has been slowed by an injury, so Klinsmann could pair Dempsey with forward Bobby Wood, a 23-year-old Hawaiian and prolific scorer on his German team FC Union Berlin.
Dempsey also might be used in the midfield. Either way, Dempsey will add a dangerous dynamic to the offense. He’s added 13 goals in World Cup qualifiers — tied with Donovan for the most in team history — and Altidore has 12.
“He’s got experience,” Wood said of Dempsey. “He’s been around for a while. It adds another leader to the team, and I think everyone is excited about that.”
The US is 13-0-1 against Guatemala in qualifying matches on its home soil. However, the match at Guatemala shapes up differently. USA has just one win and five ties in its past six matches there. The lone win in that span was a 1-0 victory in 2008.
The match Friday is the first of home-and-home qualifiers. Guatemala will play the Americans on March 29 in Columbus, Ohio.
With two victories over Guatemala, the Americans would clinch advancing to the final round of qualifying for the 2018 World Cup. That final six-team round kicks off in 2017.
Dempsey said playing any road game while attempting to qualify for the World Cup is difficult because of the nationalistic fervor among the fans.
“You can really feel that home-field advantage,” Dempsey said of the atmosphere in Guatemala. “It’s always a hostile crowd. They support their team very passionately. The trick is to try to get as many points as you can from away games.”
“You want to manage it in the right way, and that’s being careful with cards and making sure you take the energy from the fans and use it to your benefit,” he said. “You have to try and impose your game on the other team.”
The post Dempsey to play for US at World Cup qualifying in Guatemala appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Arsenal goalkeeper Petr Cech (right) shakes hands with Barcelona’s Ivan Rakitic after the end of the Champions League round of 16 first leg soccer match between Arsenal and Barcelona at the Emirates stadium London, on Tuesday, February 23, 2016. Photo: AP
PRAGUE: Arsenal goalkeeper Petr Cech has been voted the Czech Republic’s player of the year for 2015.
The 33-year-old Czech international won Monday’s poll of players, coaches, football federation officials and journalists for a record eighth time overall.
Cech left Chelsea in 2015 — following 11 successful years — and moved to English Premier League rival Arsenal. He also helped the Czech national team qualify for the 2016 European Championship in France.
He sustained a calf muscle injury earlier in March and won’t play in the forthcoming international matches against Scotland and Sweden.
Last year’s poll winner, Sparta Prague striker David Lafata, finished second while Hertha Berlin midfielder Vladimir Darida came third.
National team coach Pavel Vrba was voted best coach for the sixth straight year.
The post Petr Cech voted player of the year in Czech Republic appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
A general view of the Zaventem’s international airport near Brussels on February 20, 2013. Photo: Reuters/ File
BRUSSELS: Explosions tore through the departure hall of Brussels airport on Tuesday morning killing one person and injuring several others, the Belgian news agency Belga said.
The agency said shots were fired and there were shouts in Arabic shortly before the explosions.
The blasts occurred four days after the arrest in Brussels of a suspected participant in November militant attacks in Paris that killed 130 people. Belgian police had been on alert for any reprisal action.
Social media showed pictures of smoke rising from the departure hall where windows had been shattered by the blasts. Passengers were seen running away down a slipway.
Sky News television’s Alex Rossi, at the scene, said he heard two “very, very loud explosions”.
“I could feel the building move. There was also dust and smoke as well…I went towards where the explosion came from and there were people coming out looking very dazed and shocked.”
“The thinking here is that it is some kind of terrorist attack – that hasn’t been verified by any of the authorities here at the airport.”
Video showed devastation inside the departure hall with items scattered across the floor.
Belgian media said rail traffic to the airport was suspended.
Brussels airport said it had cancelled all flights and the complex had been evacuated.
Salah Abdeslam, the prime surviving suspect for November’s Paris attacks on a stadium, cafes and a concert hall, was captured by Belgian police after a shootout on Friday.
Belgium’s Interior Minister, Jan Jambon, said on Monday the country was on high alert for a possible revenge attack following the capture of 26-year-old Abdeslam.
“We know that stopping one cell can … push others into action. We are aware of it in this case,” he told public radio.
French investigator Francois Molins told a news conference in Paris on Saturday that Abdeslam, a French citizen born and raised in Brussels, admitted to investigators he had wanted to blow himself up along with others at the Stade de France on the night of the attack claimed by Islamic State; but he later backed out.
The post Explosions hit Brussels airport, one killed: Belgian media appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli with Chinese Premier Li Keqiang at the Great Hall of the People Monday, March 21, 2016 in Beijing, China. (Lintao Zhang/Pool Photo via AP)
KATHMANDU: Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, who is on a seven-day visit to China, on Tuesday, claimed that Nepal would not allow its land to be used under any pretext against the northern neighbour.
According to a press statement issued by Oli’s press advisor Pramod Dahal today, PM Oli said that he was very thankful to the government of China for the respect shown towards the sovereignty of Nepal and also for the support it extended to Nepal.
While addressing a programme organised by Renmin University on the theme of ” Nepal-China Relations in the context of One Belt-One Road Initiative”, PM Oli said that Nepal was always in favour of One China policy.
The deep relation between two countries on the basis of Panchasheel principles would be stronger after the initiatives of ‘One Belt One Road’ programme, stated PM KP Sharma Oli.
Meanwhile, PM Oli would interact with entrepreneurs and also address a press conference with Chinese media organised at Embassy of Nepal in Beijing.
Meanwhile, an agreement about Nepal’s membership as a Dialogue Partner of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) was signed today in the presence of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli.
The SCO is a Eurasian political, economic and military organisation founded in 2001 in Shanghai by the leaders of China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.
At present, four countries – Afghanistan, Belarus, Iran and Mongolia – have been granted observer status while Ufa Summit has decided to admit India and Pakistan as full members. Armenia, Azerbaijan, Cambodia, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Turkey are Dialogue Partners of the SCO.
Foreign Secretary Shankar Das Bairagi from Nepal and the SCO General Secretary Rashid K. Alimov had signed the agreement.
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs Kamal Thapa, Ministers for Commerce and Education Deepak Bohara and Giriraj Mani Pokharel respectively, Secretaries and other members of the delegation witnessed the signing ceremony.
The post Won’t allow Nepal land to use against China, says PM Oli appeared first on The Himalayan Times.
Britain’s Prince Harry accepts flowers and blessings from locals and school children in Gainda VDC of Lamjung, on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: RSS
POKHARA: British Prince Harry was accorded a warm welcome when he landed at the Pokhara Airport on Tuesday.
High government officials including the Chief District Officer of Kaski district, Hari Prasad Mainali, received Harry when he arrived at the airport from a Nepali Army helicopter.
From the airport, Prince Harry proceeded towards the British Camp at Lamachaur by car amidst tight security.
British Prince Harry arrives at the Pokhara Airport in Pokhara, on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: RSS
Prince Harry is scheduled to return to Kathmandu today after participating in different programmes in Pokhara. The Prince arrived at Pokhara for sightseeing, according to the British Embassy, Kathmandu.
British Prince Harry receives the warm welcome from the locals of Gainda VDC in Lamjung, on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: RSS
The locals have taken the British prince’s visit to Pokhara as an important occasion.
Early this morning, British Prince also observed the sunrise and eye-catching beauty of the Himalayas from Gaunda in the eastern part of Lamjung district.  Along with that he also enjoyed scenic beauty of Mt Annapurna-II, Mt Machhapuchchhre, Mt Lamjung, Mt Manaslu, Mt Himchuli and Mt LH Lho besides sightseeing.
British Prince Harry embarks on a half-an-hour journey to Okhare by foot from Deurali of Lamjung, in Gainda VDC of Lamjung, on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: RSS
After that he arrived at Lamjung, where he was received by the local residents of Gurung and Tamang communities as per their tradition and culture.
Locals help British Prince Harry to try on Bhangra, a traditional costume of Gurung community, in Gainda VDC of Lamjung, on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: RSS
He there inspected the situation of the quake hit people and also played volleyball with the students of Gaunda Secondary School, one of the quake-ravaged academic institutions in Lamjung.
British Prince Harry playing volleyball with the local students of Gainda Secondary School in Okhare of Lamjung, on Tuesday, March 22, 2016. Photo: RSS
He is on a visit to Nepal as the representative of the British Queen Elizabeth II on the occasion of the bicentenary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Nepal and Britain.
The post Prince Harry welcomed in Pokhara appeared first on The Himalayan Times.