2013-07~12
http://www.dispatch.com/content/stories/national_world/2013/10/30/uighurs-focus-of-probe-into-tiananmen-crash.html

Uighurs focus of probe into Tiananmen crash | The Columbus Dispatch
Enjoy the convenience of home delivery plus Digital D. Sign up for our BEST VALUE today!
Online? On the go? Enjoy unlimited premium dispatch.com content plus the E-Edition for computer and iPad.
Award-winning journalism conveniently delivered to your home. Choose the custom package best suited for you!
The E-Edition includes all of the news, comics, classifieds and advertisements of the newspaper.
And it's available to subscribers before 6 a.m. every day.
All current subscribers have full access to Digital D, which includes the E-Edition and
unlimited premium content on Dispatch.com, BuckeyeXtra.com, BlueJacketsXtra.com and
DispatchPolitics.com. 
Subscribe
today!
BEIJING — Chinese police were seeking information yesterday on two ethnic Uighur suspects
thought to be linked to an apparent suicide car attack near Tiananmen Square in the country’s
capital that killed five people and injured 38.
Police released no word about a possible motive for Monday’s incident at Beijing’s Forbidden
City, one of China’s most politically sensitive and heavily guarded public spaces. But
investigators sent a notice to hotels in the city aimed at tracing the movements of two suspects
and uncovering any other conspirators.
It was unclear whether the two Uighurs were thought to have perished in the car or were still at
large, and whether they might have been linked to militant groups in the western region of
Xinjiang, where radicals have been fighting a low-intensity insurgency against Chinese rule for
years.
If Monday’s incident was such an attack, it would be the first in recent history outside of
Xinjiang, and the boldest and most ambitious, given the high-profile target.
The sport-utility vehicle veered inside a barrier separating a crowded sidewalk from a busy
avenue and plowed through pedestrians as it sped toward Tiananmen Gate. There it crashed into a
stone structure near a large portrait of Mao Zedong that hangs near the entrance to the former
imperial palace.
The vehicle’s three occupants were killed along with two bystanders, including a Filipino
woman.
The gate stands opposite sprawling Tiananmen Square, which was the focus of the 1989
pro-democracy movement that was violently suppressed by the military, and any incident there is
highly sensitive.
Xinjiang is home to largely Muslim ethnic Uighurs, who are culturally, religiously and
linguistically distinct from China’s ethnic Han majority. Many have chafed under heavy-handed
Communist Party rule.
In Xinjiang this year, dozens of people have been killed in clashes between security forces and
Uighur militants, who the government says have been inspired by global jihadist teachings and
joined al-Qaida-inspired fighters in Syria.