2013-07~12
http://manilastandardtoday.com/2013/12/17/16-killed-in-clashes-in-xinjiang-in-china/

16 killed in clashes in Xinjiang in China - The Standard
 BEIJING—Sixteen people were killed in a clash in China’s restive Xinjiang region, home to the mostly Muslim Uighur minority, reports and activists said Monday, less than two months after a fiery attack in Tiananmen Square.
Police attempting to detain criminal suspects in Shufu county near the Silk Road city of Kashgar, deep in far western China, were attacked by several “thugs” armed with explosive devices and knives, reported the tianshannet news portal, which is run by the Xinjiang government.
Two police officers were killed and 14 of the “thugs” shot dead on Sunday, it said.
But an overseas Uighur rights group said police had broken into a house where members of the ethnic minority were “gathering” and opened fire first.
All 14 people killed by police were Uighurs and two of them were minors, Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the Munich-based World Uyghur Congress, told AFP.
“The abusive use of force by authorities in the area has deprived the Uighurs of their right to live,” he said.
Early Tuesday, China’s official Xinhua news agency reported that six suspects have been captured.
An initial probe has revealed the 14 “terrorists” shot dead were from a group promoting extremist religious ideas and making explosives for terrorist attacks, Xinhua said citing a Xinjiang police official.
The incident comes less than two months after an attack in Tiananmen Square, the symbolic heart of the Chinese state, when according to police, three Xinjiang Uighurs ploughed into crowds of tourists, killing two people and injuring 40, before crashing outside the Forbidden City and setting their vehicle ablaze.
All three attackers -- named by authorities as Usmen Hasan, his wife and his mother -- died.
6th Floor of Universal Re Bldg., 106 Paseo De Roxas cor. Perea Street, Legaspi Village, 1226 Makati City Philippines
© 2016 The Standard. All rights reserved.Powered by LEENTech Network Solutions