2013-07~12
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/nov/08/china-tiananmen-explosion-increase-dissent-repression

Tiananmen blast shows China faces rise in violent dissent – and repression | World news | The Guardian


Friday 8 November 2013 12.56 EST


Last modified on Wednesday 13 January 2016 10.37 EST


First came the car crash and explosion in Tiananmen Square, Beijing. Then came multiple blasts outside Communist party offices in a northern city. Two fatal incidents in 10 days – just ahead of a major party meeting that begins on Saturday – have highlighted the challenges facing China's leaders despite years of pouring cash into tightening security and preventative measures.
Spending on domestic security has soared over the last decade, overtaking the country's China's military budget. This spring it rose by 8.7% year-on-year, to 769.1bn yuan (£79bn).
Major events are accompanied by increasingly punitive and sometimes downright absurd restrictions: big political meetings in Beijing have seen curbs on kite-flying and the sale of pencil sharpeners.
But last month two tourists and three suspects died in Tiananmen Square, one of China's most tightly patrolled and politically sensitive places; while on Wednesday one person died and eight injured in a relatively sophisticated attack with timed explosives outside Communist party offices in Taiyuan, Shanxi.
Authorities blamed the separatist East Turkestan Islamic Movement for the Beijing attack. Members of the ethnic minority Uighur community who seek independence for the north-western Xinjiang region call it East Turkestan.
Li Wei, an anti-terrorism expert at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, said terrorism had spread from Xinjiang to other parts of China and security had to be strengthened.
"In Xinjiang, Beijing and some other bigger cities, the recognition [of anti-terrorism work] is better; in other districts it is limited," said Li.
In contrast, the government seems to see the Taiyuan explosions as an isolated incident. The Shanxi government said on Friday police had detained a 41-year-old man, who they say confessed his responsibility.
The statement did not address possible motives but said he had been jailed for nine years for theft. China has seen numerous violent attacks by people targeting officials, employers or even children over personal grievances.
Yet drawing a sharp line between the cases is not straightforward; some argue that the Tiananmen case is about individuals rather than an organised threat.
Magnus Ranstorp, of the Swedish National Defence College, an expert on militant Islamistc movements, said that if the Tiananmen case had been as sophisticated as officials suggested, "you would have seen a more directed attack, rather than a symbolic act of martyrdom; you would see synchronised attacks, violent attacks".
Three individuals carried out an attack requiring only one person, and the explosion was caused by igniting petrol.
Ranstorp said he understood that there had been some Uighur separatist links to Pakistani groups and the Taliban, but involving individuals or small scale organisations.
"They do not really have the capacity, given the repression, to carry out a serious challenge on Chinese soil," he said.
He suggested the real threat came from individuals with personal grievances – albeit possibly with some links to organisations – who saw an opportunity.
Radio Free Asia has reported that Usmen Hesen, the Uighur man who ploughed the car carrying his wife and mother into crowds at Tiananmen Square, may have sought revenge for a raid on a mosque in his hometown in Xinjiang.
Fu Hualing, of the law faculty at Hong Kong University, said China's domestic security apparatus had focused on targeting both traditional "enemies of the state" and non-violent political dissidents who could threaten the party's grip on power.
Now it faced new challenges: collective actions such as protests by groups such as migrant workers, petitioners and demobilised soldiers and – most threateningly – "the individual terrorists, like the person who crashed the car in Tiananmen Square, or the person who kills a police officer in an isolated case. You can't control them. They are everywhere. It's difficult to profile them because everyone has the potential to do that."
Instead, Fu said, authorities "need to deal with grievances more fairly, have better procedures and more institutionalised mechanisms: better courts, the rule of law, transparency, participation in the decision-making process, so you can divert the anger and frustrations."
While individual attacks do not pose a direct political challenge, the party's claim to legitimacy rests on providing social stability as well as economic growth, he noted.
Michal Meidan, China analyst at Eurasia Group, warned that social volatility was likely to increase given slowing growth, raised expectations, anger over issues such as land grabs and corruption, and limited progress on political reform.
Incidents such as the recent ones would encourage the domestic security apparatus to press for resources, she said; authorities had been reining it in, after its rapid expansion under the former security chief Zhou Yongkang.
But ever-tighter controls prove counter-productive, Ranstorp warned. Uighurs already complain about increased police scrutiny. "There's no strategy to alleviate grievances," he said. "In the short term, repression works; in the long term, it compounds the problem."
Sign in
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.


We’re doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
