2013-07~12
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2013/08/28/top-china-stories-from-wsj-graft-probe-financial-hub-transparency/

Top China Stories from WSJ: Graft Probe, Financial Hub, Transparency - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
Your daily round-up of the best of the Journal’s China coverage:
China’s Transparency Standards Collide With U.S. Investor Expectations: Here’s something U.S. investors in Chinese companies shouldn’t expect to be told: Whether relatives of senior politicians number among the executives, as they often do. (Free)
Beijing’s Grand Visions for Financial Hub: A new financial center planned for Beijing aims to defy doubters on the sustainability of China’s real-estate boom and the stability of its overstretched banks. (Free)
Posttrial, Bo Still Shines With Base: Communist Party efforts to scrub away Bo Xilai’s popular image have yet to dim support for the disgraced political star in the western Chinese municipality he governed. (Subscriber Content)
China Communist Party Plans Key November Meeting: China’s Communist Party will hold a key meeting of senior officials in November to discuss major policies on the country’s reform agenda, the official Xinhua News Agency said. (Subscriber Content)
China Extends Graft Probes to PetroChina: State-controlled PetroChina Co. said three of its senior executives are under investigation by authorities for “severe disciplinary violations” and have resigned, as Chinese authorities seem to be ratcheting up efforts to root out official corruption. (Subscriber Content)
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

The cockroach farm was built for traditional Chinese medicine, but the cockroaches were kept in an ordinary greenhouse. A vandal broke into the greenhouse and allowed 1.5 million cockroaches loose into the surrounding cornfields where the cockroaches now call their home.
There's a cockroach farm in China? How did they escape - overpower the guards?
1) 40,000 dams in China on the verge of collapsing and believed real reason of current mass flooding in China.
2) One million cockroaches escape from Chinese farm and invades local cornfields.
3) Chengdu man does knife attack that kills four and injures eleven people
4) Media sources in China negate fact that China has experienced worst flooding in a century, while at the same time have experienced worst heat wave in half-a-century.
5) Dengue fever hits high of 257 people in Yunnan province, meanwhile a new form of bird flu H7N7 has been confirmed found in chickens in China.
6) 24-hour fast food restaurants in Beijing become known as shelters for the homeless.
7) Unknown number of crocodiles swim away from slaughter farm during flooding in Guangdong province.
8) Ordos Ghost city on brink of housing collapse as prices drop from 20,000 yuan per square meter to less than 3000 yuan per square meter.
9) 86 of China’s steel companies have now incurred 486.4 billion in liabilities suggesting industry is now on verge of bankruptcy.
10) Three Chinese newspapers caught for false reporting are China Business Herald, Sanjiang City Express, and Shenzhen Economic Daily. And,
11) 15 Uyghurs in prayer have been shot and killed by Chinese security forces on eve of Ramadan. Bodies were bulldozed over in desert as mass grave.
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
