2013-07~12
http://voiceofrussia.com/radio_broadcast/25298789/248528043/

Radio : Burning Point : The Voice of Russia: News, Breaking news, Politics, Economics, Business, Russia, International current events, Expert opinion, podcasts, Video
We are talking about what is going on in China following the incident on Monday, when a car was exploded right in the middle of Tiananmen Square. That resulted in three people dying within the vehicle and two bystanders were also killed, and dozens were injured as the result of this incident. It was first classified as an accident, then it was called an act of terrorism. Now the Chinese state media are demanding severe punishment to put down this war aimed at Beijing by Islamist militants form the restive Xinjiang region.
To get a more detailed picture of the incident, its premises and implications we are joined by Dolkun Isa – the Chairman of Executive Committee of the World Uighur Congress based in Germany; and Francois Godement – Professor of Political Science at Sciences Po in Paris and also the Director of Strategy for the Asia Center
Dolkun Isa – the Chairman of Executive Committee of the World Uighur Congress based in Germany.
It is still not very clear for us too. The Chinese Government blocked all the information even for us. That’s why, at the moment we cannot say anything about the real situation and what has happened. We get some information from the Chinese Global Times or the Chinese media, but cannot trust them because there is no independent media there.
Is it really done by Uighurs or some other groups? Because it is not only Uighurs that are suffering from the Chinese Communistic Party’s persecution. So, right now it is very difficult to say was it done by Uighurs.
If it was a suicide, why three people? According to the information from the Chinese police, a guy committed suicide with mother and his wife. Another suspicious thing that police announced is that this car is from East Turkestan, from Ürümqi. From East Turkestan to Beijing is more than 3700 kilometers. If he was planning a suicide, why bring a car from East Turkestan?
The Chinese Government discrimination policy of Uighurs never changed. We are an autonomy since 1955, but this autonomy and all the rights that we were granted are only on paper. We are not terrorists, we accept the Chinese flag, we accept the Chinese constitution, we just need justice. China should separate which are peaceful activities, which are separatist activities, which are terrorist activities. But they always put these things in the same category.
Francois Godement – Professor of Political Science at Sciences Po in Paris and also the Director of Strategy for the Asia Center.
What is new is that this act has reached a very symbolic place of the Chinese official politics – Tiananmen Square, but the rest is frankly not new. My hunch is that we are going to find out that this was a desperate act of terrorism committed, probably, by members of one family with some, at least loose, identification to an Islamic group in Xinjiang region. But there have been worse acts of violence in China in the past.
China has done a very bad job of economic and social integration with the Uighurs in the province. The religious aspect, I don’t think it is the aspect which China has dealt with in the worst way, on the contrary. I would say that although Uighurs are Muslims, it is only a small part of the Islamic trend that is strongly opposed to China. At present I would bet for homegrown terrorist phenomenon.