2013-07~12
http://www.platts.com/latest-news/metals/melbourne/australias-celsius-eyes-2015-production-start-27581181

Australia's Celsius eyes 2015 production start for Kyrgyz coking coal projects - Metals | Platts News Article & Story


Australia's Celsius Coal plans to start production at its Uzgen Basin coking coal projects in the Kyrgyz Republic in 2015, the company's CFO Matthew O'Kane said on the sidelines of the Mines and Money conference in Melbourne Thursday.Celsius is looking to initially develop two coking coal projects in central southwest Kyrgyzstan -- Kargasha and Kokkia. "A low capex start-up operation most likely utilizing augers is expected to deliver a start-up production rate of around 500,000-600,000 mt/year," O'Kane said."Our goal is still to ramp up to 3-5 million mt/year over time," he added.

Article continues below...











Request a free trial of: Steel Markets Daily












Platts Steel Markets Daily is a leading source for iron ore prices, scrap metal prices, and iron ore news. It is the only publication that publishes global metallurgical coal spot prices on a daily basis and contains two iron ore price benchmark assessments in one report: Platts IODEX and TSI 62% iron ore.


























Australia's Celsius Coal plans to start production at its Uzgen Basin coking coal projects in the Kyrgyz Republic in 2015, the company's CFO Matthew O'Kane said on the sidelines of the Mines and Money conference in Melbourne Thursday.Celsius is looking to initially develop two coking coal projects in central southwest Kyrgyzstan -- Kargasha and Kokkia. "A low capex start-up operation most likely utilizing augers is expected to deliver a start-up production rate of around 500,000-600,000 mt/year," O'Kane said."Our goal is still to ramp up to 3-5 million mt/year over time," he added.
Platts Steel Markets Daily is a leading source for iron ore prices, scrap metal prices, and iron ore news. It is the only publication that publishes global metallurgical coal spot prices on a daily basis and contains two iron ore price benchmark assessments in one report: Platts IODEX and TSI 62% iron ore.

Celsius is in a unique position with its Kyrgyz projects because it will not be impacted by what happens in seaborne coking coal markets, O'Kane said. "Domestic coking coal prices in China are disconnected from seaborne trends."Most of the production from the Kyrgyz projects is expected to be sold directly into China's Xinjiang region. The coal will be transported first by road, then by rail on the proposed Trans-Asia rail line that is being developed by the Kyrgyz Republic and the Chinese government. The rail line would pass within 10 km of the Celsius projects.O'Kane said that while no offtake agreements for Celsius' coking coal had been signed, the company visited several steel mills in the region and "everything is telling us that the market in Xinjiang is under-supplied in coking coal.""Coking coals that transact in Xinjiang are also currently sold at a premium to seaborne markets," he added.Celsius sees several key customers in Xinjiang with Bayi Steel in the north -- a 10 million mt/year producer of steel. Three additional blast furnaces are also due to commission in Xinjiang's western Kashgar region in 2014 that will require around 9 million mt/year of coking coal by 2015, O'Kane said.--Marnie Hobson, marnie.hobson@platts.com--Edited by Haripriya Banerjee, haripriya.banerjee@platts.com


 @PlattsSBBSteel on Twitter

 @PlattsCoal on Twitter

 Platts metals group on LinkedIn


 ©
 2016
 Platts, McGraw Hill Financial. All rights reserved.