2013-07~12
http://www.chinapost.com.tw/china/national-news/2013/11/01/392554/Uyghur-group.htm

Uyghur group scorns Tiananmen 'terrorist' claim - The China Post
Beijing police said on Wednesday that Usmen Hasan — in an SUV carrying his mother and wife, jihadist banners and machetes — sped onto the pavement, crashed in Tiananmen Square and set the car alight.
The crash in the symbolic heart of the Chinese state killed all three people in the car and two tourists, with 40 others injured.
Five other suspects with Uyghur-sounding names were captured within 10 hours, although police only announced their detention two days later.
The mostly Muslim Uyghur minority are concentrated in China's far western region of Xinjiang, where ethnic tensions and discontent with the government periodically burst out into violence.
Beijing regularly calls such incidents "terrorism," but Uyghur organisations dismiss that as an excuse to justify religious and security restrictions, and information in the area is tightly controlled.
Alim Seytoff, a U.S.-based spokesman for the overseas World Uyghur Congress (WUC), said the official narrative of the Tiananmen event was full of holes and discriminatory.
"The Chinese claim is in a way very unbelievable, to some extent outrageous," he told AFP.
"The only reason this is labeled as a terrorist incident is because the passengers happened to be Uyghurs."
Seytoff questioned why an attacker would kill his own family, and how religious material could survive in a car engulfed in flames.
"If he were a terrorist, why would he bring his mother and his wife?" Seytoff said.
"The car was burned almost to the ground, the three people were burned to death, and the flag wasn't burned — in the car?"
The account fit what Seytoff called a pattern of authorities labeling Uyghurs as terrorists based on "thin evidence."
"We do not believe there is any kind of organized resistance against Chinese rule," he said.
"Some of the violence by Uyghurs — they are more sporadic, individualistic, out of desperation."
According to Chinese state-run media a "terrorist attack" in Xinjiang left 35 people dead in June, and 139 people have been arrested in recent months for spreading jihadist ideology.
Ethnic tensions have risen in Xinjiang since millions of members of China's Han majority have moved to the resource-rich region, where they largely control the economy. Rioting in the capital Urumqi involving both ethnic groups in 2009 left 200 people dead.
Seytoff warned Uyghurs could face tighter repression after Monday's incident, particularly in the capital, where the WUC said 93 people have been rounded up.