2014-10~12
https://abdulruff.wordpress.com/2014/12/16/pakistan-helps-china-in-targeting-xinjiang-muslims/

Pakistan helps China in targeting Xinjiang Muslims! | Dr. Abdul Ruff Colachal Blog
Pakistan helps China in targeting Xinjiang Muslims!
–DR. ABDUL RUFF COLACHAL
________________
Pakistan on which Kashmiri Muslims pin all hopes for freedom form
Indian yoke in order to create an independent Kashmir, has decided to
work seriously against Xinjiang Muslims who have been, like
themselves also do, fight for sovereignty from Chinese occupation.
Kashmiri Muslims are aware of this crude fact but since they hate
India for its extra military laws and occupational crimes , they have
to opt for Pakistan merely as a tactic.
The Pakistani attitude against Muslims in China clearly vindicates the
suspicion of many Kashmiri Muslims about Pakistani bogus support for
Kashmiri freedom struggle and in fact it wants to make Kashmir a
part of destabilized Pakistan to serve the US interests and whom
Pakistan also kill to get more service charges from USA and EU.
The parasitic nature of existence of Pakistan is understandable but
deplorable but when Kashmiri Muslims themselves want to be the
scapegoats, it makes a complete mockery of all freedom struggles
taking place world over.
From the attitude of Kashmiri media, both printed and online/blog it
is evident that Kashmiris do not want the freedoms struggle to succeed
not only their own but anywhere in with world.
Having established complete control over Azad Kashmir, Pakistan uses
pathetic looking Kashmir to get more support of weapons and money from
China for big projects and has gifted a part of Kashmir it possesses
illegally to China to get economic support from Beijing. Islamabad
expects Beijing to be grateful to Pakistan.
Pakistan which dismantled the first ever Islamic government in Swat
region is considered by enemies s of Islam, including china, a
valuable and important asset to be used against Islam.
Earlier in February 2014, China said Islamist militants active in
Xinjiang province posed a “realistic threat” and vowed to step up
anti-terror cooperation with “relevant” countries. The Pakistani
assault on the tribal areas in an important part of the greater
Chinese game plan to uproot the terror bases by engaging in bilateral
strategies.
China and Pakistan signed more than 20 agreements on Sharif’s trip,
including nuclear power and on the deep water port of Gwadar, which
China is developing. The agreements signed between the two include
solar power production at Quaid-e Azam Solar Park, easy loan for
laying optic fibre between the two countries, mining of 65,00,000
metric tons of coal in Thar Block-2, 870 MW Sukhi Kinari hydropower
project, 1,320 MW Sahiwal power project and MoU for 100 MW Jhimpir
wind power project. An agreement was also signed to establish an
industrial park in Faisalabad. The two countries also inked an
agreement for economic and technical cooperation.
Chinese assistance in development of Gwadar port in the Indian Ocean
is related to exploitation of natural resources in Xinjiang. Pakistan
has offered China a ‘trade and energy corridor’ via Gwadar, linked to
inland roads. Xinjiang is also the heart of China’s known oil
resources and a transit area for major oil and gas pipelines. China
also wants to import gas from Iran by joining the Iran-Pakistan gas
pipeline that will pass through Gilgit-Baltistan on the Pakistan
border to Xinjiang in China.
The “all weather friendship” of China and Pakistan witnessed a recent
episode when during a meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping, on
Nov 8, 2014, Mian Muhammad Nawaz Sharif, PM of Pakistan reassured
that his country will help China with its fight against Muslims who
Beijing says are active in its western region of Xinjiang.
Pakistan thinks it plays safe with both USA and China though USA has
been trying to contain Beijing in the region and in Asia. Pakistan and
china consider Muslims who obstruct the pipelines along their lands
are terrorists. Therefore, Sharif told Xi that his country would
continue to resolutely fight the East Turkestan Islamic Movement
(ETIM), China’s foreign ministry said in a statement following the
meeting in Beijing.
China has got a part of Kashmir in order to use them against Muslims
in Xinjiang so no Chinese would get killed in encounters. the Chinese
military has been engaged in halting the flow of “terrorists from
Pakistan” up the Karakorum Highway and through the Khunjerab Pass into
Xinjiang. China sought Pakistan to stem the tide of Uyghur militants
into China. China is also suspicious that some mid-level members of
Pakistan’s Army are sympathetic to the Uyghur Muslims. Many of these
sympathetic soldiers have been influenced by Pakistan’s Islamisation
policies since the 1980s. Many Chinese officials believe that
Pakistan’s intelligence services have contracts with Uyghur Muslim
leaders who may be used, if needed, in places like Kashmir and
Afghanistan. As such, Pakistanis are unwilling to fully take out the
Uyghur Muslims within their borders.
China blames ETIM for carrying out attacks in Xinjiang for restricting
the religious practices and freedom of expression by China army and
other state terrorists. China is a major Pakistan ally in the region
enjoying economic favors as service charges, and has long urged
Islamabad to weed out what it says are “militants” from Xinjiang, who
are holed up in a tribal belt, home to militant groups which include
the Taliban and Al Qaeda fighting foreign occupations in the region.
China has long accused Uyghur militants waging a sometimes violent
campaign for independence of being part of ETIM. Chinese establishment
received operational assertion when on June 15, 2014 Zarb-e-Azb
military operation was launched by Pakistan in North Waziristan Agency
(NWA) of Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) targeting in
particular foreign soldiers who were assembled over the years by the
Pakistan Taliban.
The presence of the anti-China Muslims as a part of anti-colonization
by enemies of Islam in Pakistan’s tribal regions has been a source of
concern for China, which is in the midst of its own declared crackdown
on “terrorist activities” by groups like ETIM along the
Afghanistan-Pakistan border. China has been leaning on Pakistan to
take a more active role in the fight against terror. China’s concerns
are obvious, and Pakistan has received the message: deepened economic
cooperation between the two countries which Islamabad desperately
needs will proceed much more smoothly if China’s security concerns are
assuaged. Thus, when Pakistani President Mamnoon Hussain met with
Chinese President Xi Jinping in May 2014 last, Hussain called ETIM a
“common enemy” of Pakistan and China.
Pakistan courts both super power USA and Asian giant China well and
handles them exceedingly well on their anti-Islamic concerns by
targeting Muslims because in attacking Islam and Muslims Islamabad has
nothing to lose but only gain money and weapons. Killing Muslims is
not a new retching for Pakistani military that killed even imams in
Lal Mosque. Pakistani parasitic tongue is too long lingering between
US and China honey. Beijing is reacting very positively to the
Pakistani initiative, targeting both Muslims and Islam with
spokesperson Hua Chunying saying that “China always stands by the
Pakistani government in implementing and moving forward its
counter-terrorism and security strategies based on its national
conditions”. Hua also praised Pakistan’s sacrifices and “positive
contributions” in the fight against international terrorism.
The largest of China’s administrative regions, Xinjiang borders eight
countries – Mongolia, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan,
Afghanistan, Pakistan and India – and until recently its population
was mostly Uyghur. Most Uyghurs are Muslims and Islam is an important
part of their life and identity. Their language is related to Turkish,
and they regard themselves as culturally and ethnically close to
Central Asian nations. But development has brought new residents.
In the 2000 census, Han Chinese made up 40 percent of the population,
as well as large numbers of troops stationed in the region and unknown
numbers of unregistered migrants. The percentage of Han Chinese has
increased in the 2010 census. According to the last Chinese national
census (2010), the current population of Xinjiang is 21.8 million, of
which Han Chinese make up 8.7 million, or 40.1 percent. The rest,
approximately 13 million, are minorities, mainly Uyghurs and smaller
numbers of other Turkic groups such as Kazakhs, Tajiks and Uzbeks.
Since the incorporation of East Turkestan into China, Uyghurs have
staged more than 400 rebellions against the central government. In the
1990s, open support for separatist groups increased after the collapse
of the Soviet Union and the emergence of independent Muslim states in
Central Asia. However, Beijing suppressed demonstrations and activists
went underground.
Evidently, with economic and diplomatic support, Pakistan is in no
position to displease China. Pakistan has given more than token
support to the Chinese fight against the Uyghur militants. The
Pakistani vow of assisting China in thwarting the Uyghur groups has
been rightly made in the light of Operation Zarb-e-Azb in which so far
about 1,100 militants were killed by Pakistan Army. In a duplicitous
way, Pakistan has “crushed” the anti-Chinese Muslim insurgents in its
own land. It can be stated that with falling out of “complete trust”
from US and Osama bin Laden’s killing by the US Navy Seals, Pakistan
has been cornered to the Chinese wall.
Many in Pakistan, Azad Kashmir and India say if Beijing and Islamabad
can find workable options to connect their twin anti-terror
crackdowns, killing more Muslims than they have been managed to do so
far, it will provide a major boost to existing military ties and
economic friendship between the two. Pakistan could even become a
strong power in the region. For this Pakistan should kill more
Pakistani Muslims and also help China in killing most Uyghur Muslims.
It is fact that occupation nations do not l allow freedom of
expression to people under suppression. Pakistan cannot tolerate any
criticism of its occupational techniques and punish them, worse than
its counterpart India has been sing to Kashmiris. Kashmiri Muslims
besieged by India and Pakistan have to say exactly what their
respective government wants and allows. Takes Kashmiri Muslims in
Azad Kashmir is more fearful than their counterparts in India’s Jammu
Kashmir.
Basically Muslims in both arts of Kashmir are semi-slaves and veto
member china exploits that predicament of Kashmiris and weaknesses of
India and Pakistan. .
____________________________________
Educationist, Prolific writer, Specialist on State Terrorism; Chronicler of
Foreign occupations &
Freedom movements (Palestine, Kashmir, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan,
Xinjiang, Chechnya, etc.) Chancellor-Founder of Centor for International
Affairs(CIA); Commentator on world affairs & sport fixings, Expert on
Mideast Affairs, university teacher; Author of books/ebooks; Editor.
Unfortunately, today there is not even one Muslim nation
today practicing truly Islamic faith and life.
 (Account: No 62310377429* -* CIF No:
78215311481- State Bank of Hyderabad, India) Phone: 91-8129081217
Please log in using one of these methods to post your comment: