2014-10~12
http://www.arabianbusiness.com/west-stoking-extremism-in-mideast-claims-china-s-top-paper-573997.html

West stoking extremism in MidEast, claims China's top paper - Politics & Economics - ArabianBusiness.com
We can only send passwords to the e-mail address you're registered with. If you can not remember it, or have any other problem, please e-mail registration@arabianbusiness.com
"This is a classic case of how rearing a tiger will court calamity," it added. (AFP/Getty Images)
Western countries are stoking extremism in the Middle East with their support for anti-government opposition movements, China's top newspaper said on Thursday, repeating a call for non-interference in the region's turmoil.
China has expressed concern about the rise of ISIL in countries like Syria and Iraq, nervous about the effect it could have on its own unruly far western region of Xinjiang where Beijing says it faces a threat from Islamist extremists.
But it has also condemned efforts by Western nations to arm certain groups fighting against the Syrian government, and has shown no sign of wanting to join US efforts to use military force against ISIL.
The People's Daily, the official paper of China's ruling Communist Party, said that moves by the West to support anti-government movements in the Middle East were having the opposite effect.
"The facts prove that by letting jihadists pass unchecked into Syria to join battle has caused the expansion of the extremist group ISIL," the newspaper wrote in a commentary.
"This is a classic case of how rearing a tiger will court calamity," it added. "The entry of major powers must avoid by all means adding to the chaos."
The United States needed to understand that the enemy of your enemy was still your enemy, the newspaper added.
The piece was published under the pen name "Zhong Sheng", meaning "Voice of China", often used to give views on foreign policy.
However, the international community could not just sit by and watch as ISIL grew. It needed to play a constructive role and follow the rules of the United Nations charter, the commentary said.
That meant respecting countries' sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, it added.

Disclaimer:The view expressed here by our readers are not necessarily shared by Arabian Business, its employees, sponsors or its advertisers.

Despite the lifting of sanctions in January, many foreign companies...


Investors in Saudi Arabia now have a new source of uncertainty...


waiting for your lip contour in Kuwait soon inshallah best of luck huda your the best more


waiting for your lip contour in Kuwait soon inshallah best of luck huda your the best more


If I am not wrong it was the Islamic Banking arm of Emirates NBD who illegally cashed my friend Allan Paris's security cheque landing him in Jail. Please... more


I just cannot understand why all this incessant whining, yeah this is life and the standard of living is too expensive and will become far more expensive... more


waiting for your lip contour in Kuwait soon inshallah best of luck huda your the best more


A landlord is also from the same people not a super man or goldmine owner. He also lease his very valuable property to an unknown person to live and stay... more


If I am not wrong it was the Islamic Banking arm of Emirates NBD who illegally cashed my friend Allan Paris's security cheque landing him in Jail. Please... more
