2014-10~12
http://fullcomment.nationalpost.com/2014/11/10/kelly-mcparland-chinas-challenge-is-to-keep-its-progress-ahead-of-the-price-it-pays/

Kelly McParland: China's challenge is to keep its progress ahead of the price it pays | National Post
Kelly McParland | November 10, 2014 10:09 AM ETMore from Kelly McParland | @KellyMcParland
China has certainly had a busy — and revealing — week. Reports on environmental devastation,  international bad manners, the launching of a new plan to silence troublemakers, all wrapped around a steady stream of foreign dignitaries arriving for a grab-and-grin with China’s leaders in hopes of getting a piece of the pie.
On Wednesday the China Daily ran a report demonstrating the price China is already paying for the pollution it spews in its headlong race to develop. The official English-language paper reveled that more than 40% of the country’s arable land is suffering from degradation caused by pollution, acidification, global warming and urbanization. With 1.4 billion mouths to feed, “food security” is threatened, with just enough arable land still available to remain above the “red line” set by the government. At 0.1 hectares per capita, China has less than half the world average: you think energy supply is important to the world’s most populous country, imagine what happens when it can’t feed itself.
While worried about the environment at home, China shows less concern for what happens overseas. A London organization reported that when President Xi Jinping led an official visit to Tanzania to promote trade earlier this year, the Chinese delegation loaded up on poached ivory, shipping it home in diplomatic bags.
According to a report by the Environmental Investigation Agency … members of the Chinese delegation used Mr. Xi’s visit as an opportunity to procure so much illegal ivory that local prices doubled to about $318 a pound.
Tanzania is the world’s biggest centre for poached ivory, driving down the endangered elephant population. In the massive Selous Game Reserve the elephant population has fallen 67 percent since 2009, to 13,000. Asia, and particularly China, is the main destination, despite official denials and pledges to improve. Last year a frustrated Tanzanian minister suggested shooting poachers “on the spot” to slow the devastation.
The New York Times reported on Sunday that Beijing has instituted its latest effort to quell unrest among the Uighur minority in the northwest, by shipping as many as possible to the other end of the country in southern Guangdong. By offering jobs, free travel and housing, the communist government hopes to dilute the Uighur population in Xinjiang by spreading it out among the Han Chinese who dominate the rest of the country. A smiliar approach was taken decades ago in Tibet, though in more brutal fashion, with Han Chinese shipped to Tibet to water down the native Tibetan population. Protesters were either shot or jailed, as is still the practice with more troublesome Uighurs.

Chinese President Xi Jinping was told of Ottawa’s concerns about a Canadian couple being held as suspected spies in northern China, Prime Minister Stephen Harper said Sunday during a meeting held in the opulent Great Hall of the People.
“That particular case is of significant concern to us and to Canadians and that is why I raised it,” Harper said during a brief news conference.
Perhaps what’s changed is that all these issues are now public information, outside China if not within. Inside the country censorship is still the norm, but outside its borders Chinese leaders know that their actions are no secret, and subject to question and criticism. That matters, given the high priority those leaders put on international stature and the respect they crave.
Beijing is hosting an Asian-Pacific summit this week, and global worthies have been lining up for their photo op with President Xi. Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s office spent Sunday issuing a steady stream of announcements on the deals he’d secured during his visit. Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe met Mr. Xi on Monday, as did President Barack Obama. All are eager to sign deals, do business, advance trade. So are the Chinese, though they know they’ll have to endure a ritual lecture on their various human rights violations and environmental sins in return. After his official session, Mr. Harper bragged that some of the investment annoyances Beijing has with Ottawa weren’t even raised, even though he put all Canada’s usual complaints on the table.
Presumably it all has an impact. China today is not the China it was even a decade ago, when Mr. Harper was wagging his finger and refusing even to travel to Beijing. Change does happen. Whether it’s in time to save the elephants or rescue China’s food industry remains to be seen.
Topics: Full Comment, Asia-Pacific Politics, Barack Obama, Beijing, China, Chinese Politics, Stephen Harper, Xi Jinping
It's no secret most of the U.S. media think Trump is a buffoon and a liar. So what if he wins the nomination? Can they contain their contempt?
Oilpatch M&As are off to the hottest start in years… and test your budget trivia. These stories and more in your morning cheat sheet to the Financial Post
In American Girls, Nancy Jo Sales discovers teens are building their popularity like brands, taking cues from advertising's most provocative impulses
William Nylander can't remember much about being born in Calgary, but he will treasure his first game against the Calgary Flames.
‘I think from some guys right now, the effort is not there. It’s not good enough. I think those guys know who they are'
© 2016 National Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.