2014-10~12
http://www.globalresearch.ca/china-jails-cias-uighur-imams/5413594

US Sponsored Islamist Insurgency in Xinjiang? China Jails CIA’s Uighur Imams | Global Research - Centre for Research on Globalization
China has imprisoned around two dozen Uighur Muslim leaders in the western region of Xinjiang for “illegal religious activities.”
The convicted suspects were given prison terms ranging between five and 16 years, according the China’s state-run news service.
Aljazeera reports China is concerned enemies of the state in Xinjiang may receive support from Islamists in nearby Pakistan and Afghanistan.
Left out of the Aljazeera report is the fact Uighur Muslims were present at Osama bin Laden’s CIA-ISI and Saudi funded training camps in Afghanistan prior to 2001. According to journalist Eric Margolis, the CIA used third parties in the effort to train the Uighur.
“The CIA was going to use them in the event of a war with China, or just to raise hell there, and they were trained and supported out of Afghanistan, some of them with Osama bin Laden’s collaboration. The Americans were up to their ears with this,” Margolis told Scott Horton in 2008.
Details of the operation to destabilize China came to light during the immigration court case of a Turkish Islamic leader, Fethullah Gülen, in 2008.
During the court case prosecutors uncovered an illegal covert CIA operation to use Islamic radicalism to destabilize Central Asia, a plan that received its broad strokes from the work of arch globalist and former national security advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski and his book, The Grand Chessboard: American Primacy and Its Geostrategic Imperatives.
You’ve got to look at the big picture. After the fall of the Soviet Union, the super powers began to fight over control of Central Asia, particularly the oil and gas wealth, as well as the strategic value of the region.
Given the history, and the distrust of the West, the US realized that it couldn’t get direct control, and therefore would need to use a proxy to gain control quickly and effectively. Turkey was the perfect proxy; a NATO ally and a puppet regime. Turkey shares the same heritage/race as the entire population of Central Asia, the same language (Turkic), the same religion (Sunni Islam), and of course, the strategic location and proximity.
This started more than a decade-long illegal, covert operation in Central Asia by a small group in the US intent on furthering the oil industry and the Military Industrial Complex, using Turkish operatives, Saudi partners and Pakistani allies, furthering this objective in the name of Islam.
This is why I have been saying repeatedly that these illegal covert operations by the Turks and certain US persons dates back to 1996, and involves terrorist activities, narcotics, weapons smuggling and money laundering, converging around the same operations and involving the same actors.
And I want to emphasize that this is “illegal” because most, if not all, of the funding for these operations is not congressionally approved funding, but it comes from illegal activities.
Graham Fuller, a former CIA station chief in Kabul and a senior political scientist for the Rand Corporation, added the required philosophical base for the effort by writing The Xinjiang Problem for the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, a diplomatic graduate school that has served as a base for Zbigniew Brzezinski and a number of neocons, including Eliot Cohen and Paul Wolfowitz.
Turkey has served as a proxy and facilitator for a number of terrorist projects, most recently supporting ISIS, now the Islamic State. It is also involved in the CIA’s project to undermine China by supporting its Uighur separatist movement. As usual, the affair has the standard number of intelligence twists and turns.
One of the main tools Washington is using in this affair in order to get Turkey involved in the Xinjiang affair is some Turkish Americans, primarily the Fetullah Gulen team who are prosecuted in absentia in Turkey for trying to found a theocratic State order in this country because he runs his activities from the United States, his protégé. Another Turk used in this affair is Enver Yusuf Turani, who is the self styled Foreign and Prime Minister of the East Turkistan Government in exile. He has been an American citizen since 1998. Enver Yusuf is in close cooperation with Fetullah Gulen… Their activities for the government in exile are based on a report entitled “the Xinjiang Project” drafted by Graham Fuller in 1998 for the Rand Corporation and revised in 2003 under the title “the Xinjiang Problem.” It emphasizes the importance of the Xinjiang Autonomous region in encircling China and provides a strategy for it.
More recently the CIA surrogate, the State Department’s National Endowment for Democracy, has fanned the flames of unrest in China’s Xinjiang where separatists are calling for a state they dub East Turkistan.
Disclaimer: The contents of this article are of sole responsibility of the author(s). The Centre for Research on Globalization will not be responsible for any inaccurate or incorrect statement in this article. The Center of Research on Globalization grants permission to cross-post original Global Research articles on community internet sites as long as the text & title are not modified. The source and the author's copyright must be displayed. For publication of Global Research articles in print or other forms including commercial internet sites, contact: [email protected]
www.globalresearch.ca contains copyrighted material the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. We are making such material available to our readers under the provisions of "fair use" in an effort to advance a better understanding of political, economic and social issues. The material on this site is distributed without profit to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving it for research and educational purposes. If you wish to use copyrighted material for purposes other than "fair use" you must request permission from the
copyright owner.