2014-10~12
http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/11/11/us-usa-china-terrorism-idUSKCN0IV03020141111

Terrorism should be denied safe haven along China's borders: Obama | Reuters
BEIJING Terrorist groups such as the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) should not be allowed to establish a safe haven in ungoverned areas along China's periphery, U.S. President Barack told Chinese state news agency Xinhua.
In a Xinhua interview that ran on late on Monday, Obama urged greater cooperation between China and the United States in fighting global terrorism.
"There are specific areas where we could work together, for example in stemming the flow of foreign terrorist fighters and cracking down on terrorist funding networks," he was quoted as saying.
Repeating his earlier message that the United States welcomes the rise of a peaceful, stable and prosperous China, Obama said he "absolutely" rejected the idea that the United States was trying to contain China.
China blames the East Turkestan Islamic Movement for carrying out attacks in its western region of Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people, though many foreign experts doubt the group's existence in a cohesive group.
The latest photos from deadly explosions at Brussels Airport and a metro station in Belgium's capital.  Slideshow 
Using citation analysis to identify authors whose papers wield outsized influence
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.