2014-10~12
http://www.thespec.com/news-story/5163356-chinese-state-media-attack-in-western-xinjiang-region-kills-15-injures-14/

Chinese state media: Attack in western Xinjiang region kills 15, injures 14

HamiltonBusiness.com
 , 
 Young Professionals
 , 
 Economic Development
 , 
 Steeltown

Like AC/DC and Kiss, ZZ Top is one of those bands that seems to have been...
On a philosophical level, the strategy makes sense. But it has more than...
The decision to buy a cottage is one that should be made after careful...

 BEIJING, China - Chinese state media say 15 people have been killed in an attack in the country's troubled western Xinjiang region.


 The official Xinhua News Agency says 14 other people were injured in what it said was a terrorist attack Friday in Shache county.


 The Tianshan news portal said Saturday that the attackers used vehicles, knives and explosives in the assault. It said the dead included 11 of the attackers.


 Such attacks have claimed dozens of lives in Xinjiang over the past year. Members of the region's Muslim Uighur (WEE-gur) minority group have bristled under what they say is repressive Chinese government rule.

Question: 


What happens to your inheritance if you divorce? 


Answer: 


The Court of...
The team at Genuine Bakery & Catering in Hamilton, Ontario, are the experts in catering. Whatever...
Similar to your home’s roof, fences need to be repaired or replaced after years of use — and the...
If you suffer from the embarrassment and discomfort of missing or severely decayed teeth, Eastgate...
The Coffee Gourmand, located in Hamilton, supplies the finest quality of natural products designed...
At Good Point Tattoos in Oakville, Ontario they’ve designed and applied hundreds of different...
Whether it’s a seminar, meeting or family reunion, the unique atmosphere, delicious menu options...
They know how to keep kids engaged at Le Ballon Rouge in Hamilton. One of the city’s only French...
Question:


What is “Undue Influence”?


Answer:


In a previous article, I wrote about the legal...
Every smile is different. This is a fact that cannot be disputed. So why with the ever-advancing...
When you don’t know how to get rid of that unsightly junk from your last home renovation, the MG...
By David Grossman


For many coaches, the focus is only about winning games.


Amos Connolly was...
Question:


My brother is incapable but doesn’t have a Power of Attorney – What can I...
There are few things in life that can be more hectic or stressful than moving. This is why the...
Like you, raccoons like to live an urban lifestyle. Unlike you, they have little regard for...
Tanning sessions at Paradise Tan in Hamilton, Ontario, not only help you look great but also can...
Custom Direct Windows & Doors Ltd., located in Stoney Creek, knows that increasing the value of...
When you choose to go with concrete for your driveway, trust the professionals at Oakville’s Matos...
Natura Day Spa is located in Dundas, Ontario, and provides manicure, pedicure, hairstyling and...
Sandblasted and routed signs are stylish and popular for people who are looking to designate or...