2014-10~12
http://gulfnews.com/news/world/china/burqas-in-public-banned-in-capital-of-china-s-ethnic-region-1.1425575

Burqas in public banned in capital of China's ethnic region | GulfNews.com
The monthly women's lifestyle magazine offering real solutions for real women.
The most read magazine in the UAE. Lively, intelligent and thought-provoking.
Focused reports on events, business and lifestyle. In depth, insightful, influential.
An inspiring home interiors magazine showcasing the best interior design.
The No. 1 source for entertainment, lifestyle & fashion in the UAE.
In-depth look at issues behind the news, with sections on people, books and art.
A weekly motoring magazine packed with the latest local and global motoring news, reviews and views.
The UAE's most listened to pop music FM radio station.
Radio 2 is all about great fun and great music!
A contemporary hits radio station with a South Asian focus
Gadget soup for the techy soul. News and reviews with our own irreverent spin
The UAE's monthly magazine for men. High octane cars, gadgets, and interviews.
The UAE's first stop shop for buying and selling cars.
Give your career a boost. Find the best and latest jobs.
Digital version of today’s newspaper, exactly as it is in print.
Get your brand seen in the region's most read newspaper.
100s of offers, half price deals, 2 for 1s - and more.
Have something you want to tell us, a question, or complaint?
Capital of China's ethnically divided Xinjiang region bans public wearing of head coverings traditionally donned by some Muslim women
Beijing: The capital of China's restive western region of Xinjiang has introduced a law banning veiled robes in public amid measures taken by Beijing to curb Muslim extremism, authorities announced Thursday.
The law in the predominantly Muslim region comes as Beijing intensifies a campaign against religious extremism that it blames for the violence that has left hundreds dead in the past 20 months.
"This fits into the larger pattern, keeping up with the trend in the past five years that has really intensified in the last year by the government to try to forcibly reshape and standardise the type of the garments among the Uighur females," said James Leibold, a scholar of ethnic policies at Australia's La Trobe University.
Xinjiang is home to the Turkic-speaking Uighur minority Muslims, who have complained of China's repressive rule and economic disenfranchisement under a government dominated by the majority Han Chinese.
In clamping down on violence in Xinjiang, authorities are targeting what they call manifestations of religious extremism among Uighurs, such as beards and women's veils.
Scholars say they are not necessarily expressions of extremism but cultural choices by Uighurs, and they warn the heavy-handed measures may anger ordinary Uighurs.
"It polarises the tensions even further, and you get violent push-back," Leibold said, noting that acts of unveiling Uighur women have been met with resistance In Xinjiang.
Earlier this month, the northern Xinjiang city of Karamay announced that young men with beards and women in burqas or hijabs would not be allowed on public buses.
In another public campaign called "Project Beauty," authorities have banned veils and masks that cover up a woman's face. Uighur women also are requested to tie headscarves behind their ears, instead of wrapping them around their chins, a custom authorities say is not indigenous to Uighur cultures.
Police also have raided women's dress shops in Xinjiang and confiscated full-length robes.
The new law was passed by the Urumqi legislature's standing committee on Wednesday but needs endorsement at the regional level before going into effect.
Muslims make up about 1.8 percent of the Chinese population. In Xinjiang, non-Muslim ethnic Han Chinese make up 41 percent of the region's population.
GulfNews.com is the most widely read newspaper, and online site in English in the Middle East. With a daily BPA audited paid circulation of over 108,000, and an online audience of 3.5 million uniques every month, it is your go to source for information on the region. Sign up below to begin personalising your experience