2014-10~12
http://english.cri.cn/4526/2014/11/04/2701s850854.htm

Exploring the Hexi Corridor
Gansu province was once considered one of the most important sections of the ancient Silk Road and today it is fast becoming one of the most important sections on the modern Silk Road Economic Belt thanks to its historical association with the historical trading route. The Hexi Corridor, running northwest from the bank of the Yellow River, marked the trail for the northern route of the Silk Road through the province. The Hexi Corridor was the most important route for traders as they sought to travel to Xinjiang and Central Asia. The appearance of silk goods in Siberia as early as the first millennium BC was the direct result of traders travelling via the Hexi Corridor.
Today, Gansu's link to the past as well as its cultural resources and natural geography are helping to drive tourism within this northwesterly province. The Zhangye Danxia landform, a unique patchwork of multicolored rocks, the result of red sandstone and mineral deposits being laid down over 24 million years, attracts tourists from all around the country. Meanwhile, the Mogao Grottoes in Dunhuang and the Jiayuguan Great Wall pass are also mainstays on the tourist trail. But according to He Yanhong, the deputy director of investment at the Dunhuang cultural industrial zone, the initiation of the Silk Road Economic Belt concept has propelled development in the area thanks to an emphasis on cultural tourism. The industrial zone has already seen a total investment of 35 billion yuan with 30 projects currently operating within the area.
Elsewhere, the reimagining of the Silk Road is leading to other viable business opportunities thanks to the attention being placed upon the idea of the Silk Road following President Xi Jinping's revival of the Economic Belt idea. For instance, the city of Jiayuguan and the China Cultural Media Group have agreed to establish a theme town where tourists can learn about the culture of the Silk Road and partake in artistic communication and cultural exchanges.
Lian Ji, head of the publicity department in Gansu, noted that the province actively sought to combine cultural industries and tourism in order to build large-scale zones or projects which could boast a strong reputation and a visible brand. Thanks to the attention being placed on the Silk Road Economic Belt within China, the job of developing such reputations and brands and thereby maximizing the area's commercial potential has been made somewhat easier for the Gansu business community.
Of course, in the process of developing cultural tourism, cultural protection remains a necessary step, especially when dealing with ancient heritage sites. Officials in Gansu are certainly mindful of this, and over a million yuan has been spent in order to maintain and protect historical and cultural heritages across the province, leading to a new system of assessment and management.
Lian Ji says policies such as carrying out wooden architectural repair, using specialized polishing technique to restore ancient paint, and installing security at the Jiayuguan site and requiring tourists to make reservations before visiting the Mogao Grottoes are just a few examples of the policies that are essential in order to strike a balance between protection and economic interest.
Gansu's popular tourist sites command a lot of attention whilst also helping to drive development within Gansu alongside the impetus that the Silk Road Economic Belt concept has brought. But there remain a number of cities located within the Hexi Corridor which are worth exploring due to their modern-day situation as well as their links to the ancient Silk Road route. This section of MESSENGER presents a small selection of cities which deserve attention alongside the ever-popular attractions of Grottoes and the Great Wall.