2014-10~12
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/228037603

Ilham Tohti's Students to Stand Trial 'Soon' in China's Xinjiang - China National News
Chinese authorities in the troubled northwestern region of Xinjiang are getting ready to put on trial a number of students of jailed Uyghur scholar Ilham Tohti, his wife said on Monday.
The former professor at the Central University for Nationalities in Beijing was handed a life sentence, along with deprivation of political rights and confiscation of all his assets, following his conviction of a charge of "separatism" by a court in Xinjiang on Sept. 23.
Both Tohti, 44, and his lawyers had expressed concern that seven of his students may already have been tried and sentenced in secret on similar charges.
But Tohti's wife Guzelnur told RFA she had gotten a phone call from the mother of one of the students, a graduate student named only as Parhat.
"I got a call from a parent of one of the students on Nov. 12," Guzelnur said. "They said their son's trial would be held soon, probably in [Xinjiang's regional capital] Urumqi."
Guzelnur added: "The mother of the graduate student, Parhat, called me and said they have already hired a lawyer and now they are waiting for the trial."
China has launched a year-long crackdown on "terrorism" in Xinjiang following a string of violent incidents in recent years.
But rights activists say Tohti didn't receive a fair trial and should never have stood trial in the first place for the peaceful expression of his views, which were widely seen as moderate criticisms of Beijing's repressive policies targeting Uyghurs.
Tohti's defense lawyer Liu Xiaoyuan said he is in the process of appealing the initial verdict and life sentence.
"I have handed in nine pages of additional material [for the appeal]," Liu told RFA after visiting Tohti's detention center, where his students are also believed to be held, on Monday.
"[Tohti] is aware that the appeal won't be held in court; I have already told him about that," Liu said. "He still wants the appeal to be held in court, so I told him ... to write to the court expressing this view."
"He wrote an application, calling for the appeal to be held in court and for further investigations into the facts of the case," Liu said, adding that Tohti's case should qualify for an appeal hearing in court.
He said he had recently held meetings with three court officials over the appeal.
"I hope they will change this decision, because I told them this is a major, important case," Liu said.
"What's more, a lot of the facts of the case haven't been made clear. There are holes in the evidence, especially around the question of witness reliability," he said.
Meanwhile, Guzelnur said the family remains extremely concerned about Tohti's health, as they have been prevented from taking him a set of clothes suitable to Xinjiang's winters.
She said she had recently written to her husband telling him news about the couple's two young sons.
Urumqi's temperature was listed as -1C (31F) on Monday, according to the Travel China Guide website.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Kunshan (China), March 21 (IANS) India were placed in a relatively easy group in the women's section but the men's team did not prove to be as lucky at the draw for the prestigious Thomas and Uber Cup Finals badminton tournament that was held here on Monday.
In the men's section -- the Thomas Cup -- the Indian team have been drawn along with 13-times winners Indonesia and strong contenders Thailand and Hong Kong China in Group B.
The women's team have been placed in Group D of the Uber Cup alongside Japan -- the runners-up in the last edition in 2014 -- Australia and Germany.
The tournament will be held here in Kunshan from May 15-22.
Meanwhile, Thomas Cup defending champions Japan and top seeds China found themselves in the same group as the draw. The two powerhouses were drawn in Group A alongside France and Mexico, ensuring that the starting stage of the finals itself should be an intensely competitive affair.
Second seeds Denmark, in Group D, were drawn along with Chinese Taipei, New Zealand and South Africa while Group C has South Korea, Malaysia, England and Germany.
In the Uber Cup competition, hosts and defending champions China will have to contend with European power Denmark in Group A. Their group-mates are Spain and Malaysia.
Group B consists of Korea, Chinese Taipei, Mauritius and USA, while Group C has Thailand, Indonesia, Bulgaria and Hong Kong China.
Sixteen teams each in the Thomas Cup and Uber Cup qualified for the final rounds based on their performance in the continental team championships and team rankings. The No.1 and No.2 seeded teams were separated in the draw by placing them at the top of Group A and Group D respectively. The other teams and corresponding group positions were then picked by the invited dignitaries.
The top two teams in each group will make it to the knockout stages. There will be another draw for the quarter-finals.

UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved