2014-10~12
http://news.yahoo.com/top-asian-news-8-00-m-gmt-080302556.html

Top Asian News at 8:30 a.m. GMT - Yahoo News
BANGKOK (AP) — Thailand's Crown Prince Vajiralongkorn has asked the government to strip his wife's family of their royally issued surname, the latest development in a high-profile crackdown that involves senior members of the police force. The move came after at least three relatives of the crown prince's wife, Princess Srirasm, were arrested last week as part of the corruption probe.
TAIPEI, Taiwan (AP) — China urged Taiwan to protect the gains of landmark cooperation between the mainland and the self-ruled island after Taiwan's pro-Beijing ruling party was routed in local elections. The defeat in Saturday's elections of the Nationalist Party, which lost nine cities and counties, including its longtime strongholds Taipei, the capital, and the major central city of Taichung, led to the resignation of Premier Jiang Yi-huah, who heads the Cabinet. President Ma Ying-jeou promised to make changes.
BEIJING (AP) — An attack in China's troubled western Xinjiang region left 15 people dead and 14 injured, state media reported Saturday, the latest in a wave of ethnic violence there that has claimed dozens of lives over the past year. The official Xinhua News Agency reported that the attack took place at a "food street" Friday in Shache county, the same region where state media said a series of attacks in July left 96 people dead, including 59 assailants.
BEIJING (AP) — A prominent human rights lawyer was released Saturday from six months in police custody in central China, according a Beijing-based social justice group. Chang Boyang has been campaigning for the rights of migrant workers, HIV patients and children poisoned in a 2008 tainted milk scandal.
BEIJING (AP) — Beijing has adopted a smoking ban in all indoor public spaces including workplaces and public transport. The official Xinhua News Agency reported that the ban will go into effect in the capital city of 21 million people on June 1 and carry a fine of up to 200 yuan ($32.50). The Standing Committee of Beijing Municipal People's Congress passed the draft regulation Friday.
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) — An Afghan official says three South African nationals and one Afghan were killed in an attack on a guesthouse in the capital Kabul, revising the original toll up from one foreigner. The chief of Kabul police, Gen. Mohammed Zahir, said Sunday that the head of an international aid group was killed, along with his son and daughter, in the attack the day before. He gave no ages for the children, and did not identify the organization.
GUWAHATI, India (AP) — India's home minister hit out at Pakistan on Saturday, accusing its state agencies of using terror to try to destabilize India, and rejecting Pakistan's assertion that non-state actors are involved in terrorism. "Pakistan is continuously engaged in destabilizing India, but says non-state actors are behind the acts of terror. I want to ask Pakistan if its Inter-Services Intelligence is also a non-state actor," Rajnath Singh said, referring to Pakistan's national intelligence agency.
BEIJING (AP) — A leading Chinese rights activist who organized rallies for media freedom pleaded not guilty to charges of disturbing public order in an all-night trial in which the judge rejected his requests for food, a lawyer said. The case against Yang Maodong, 48, comes amid a broadening crackdown on dissent. In January, a Beijing court sentenced legal activist Xu Zhiyong to four years in prison for leading a loosely organized civil movement. Several of his followers also were imprisoned.
HONG KONG (AP) — At age 14, he stepped into the spotlight to take on — and ultimately help defeat — Hong Kong authorities' plans to launch a "national education" curriculum, calling it a ploy to brainwash the city's youth with unquestioned support for the Chinese Communist Party. Now, at 18, Joshua Wong is helping spearhead a mostly student-led protest movement that is pressing for greater democratic reforms in the semiautonomous Chinese territory.
CANBERRA, Australia (AP) — Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott, who rose to power in large part by opposing a tax on greenhouse gas emissions, is finding his country isolated like never before on climate change as the U.S., China and other nations signal new momentum for action. Abbott tried and failed to keep the issue off the agenda of the annual G-20 summit of wealthy and emerging countries that was hosted by the Australian city of Brisbane in mid-November. An agreement between Washington and Beijing to curb emissions, announced days before the summit, suggests he had misjudged the international mood on the issue.
TOKYO (AP) — A volcano in southern Japan blasted out chunks of magma Friday in the first such eruption in 22 years, causing flight cancellations and prompting warnings to stay away from its crater. The Japan Meteorological Agency said that Mount Aso spewed out lava debris and smoke, shooting plumes of ash a kilometer (3,280 feet) into the sky. Dozens of flights from Kumamoto, the nearest city, were canceled.
A renewed plunge in oil prices is a worrying sign of weakness in the global economy that could shake governments dependent on oil revenues. Yet it is also a bonus for consumers as prices fall at the pump, giving individuals more spending money and lowering costs for many businesses. The latest slide follows OPEC's decision to leave its production target at 30 million barrels a day. Member nations of the cartel are worried they'll lose market share if they lower production.
TOKYO (AP) — Japan's biggest newspaper apologized in print Friday for using the term "sex slaves" in its English-language edition to describe Asian women forced into Japanese military-run brothels during World War II. The conservative Yomiuri said in articles in English and Japanese that it was inappropriate to have used the phrase and others implying the women were coerced to provide sex. The newspaper identified 97 articles, including 85 of its own, with "sex slaves" or similar expressions between 1992 and 2013.
BEIJING (AP) — Chinese authorities say in a six-month report card on their security crackdown in Xinjiang that they busted 115 terrorist gangs before they could unleash violence. But tallies of death tolls in the ethnically tense region suggest the violence has continued, and may even have intensified. Information from the region is routinely suppressed so experts caution against any firm conclusions about the level of violence in the far western region that is home to 10 million members of the Muslim Uighur minority, who chafe under what they consider suppression by China's ethnic majority Han. However, both Chinese state-run media and foreign outlets who monitor Xinjiang have continued to report a stream of deadly clashes.
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia (AP) — Malaysia Airlines on Friday said its loss widened last quarter and apologized for a promotional tweet slammed as insensitive after two deadly passenger jet disasters this year. In its last public financial result before a planned privatization and overhaul, the flag carrier said its net loss in the July-September quarter rose 53 percent from a year earlier to 576.1 million ringgit ($170.3 million).