2014-10~12
http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/world-digest-oct-13-2014/2014/10/13/377fa11c-52e4-11e4-809b-8cc0a295c773_story.html

World Digest: Oct. 13, 2014 - The Washington Post
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
Kim Jong Un, the mysteriously missing leader of North Korea, has suddenly resurfaced, with state media Tuesday showing him walking with a cane as he gave “field guidance” at a new apartment complex.
The reports should put an end to rumors that Kim has been overthrown or is under house arrest, but will do little to end speculation about his health.
The Rodong Sinmun, the mouthpiece of the Korean Workers’ Party, featured an unusual photo spread on its front page Tuesday showing the young leader, thought to be 31 or 32, leaning on a cane at an odd angle.
The Great Successor, as Kim is known, had last been seen in Pyongyang on Sept. 3, attending a concert with his wife.
British lawmakers voted Monday to recognize Palestine as a state, a move that will not alter government policy, but carries symbolic value as Palestinians seek international recognition.
Britain does not classify Palestine as a state, but says it could do so at any time if it believed it would help bring peace between the Palestinians and Israel.
Prime Minister David Cameron abstained from the vote, which was called by an opposition lawmaker, and Cameron’s spokesman earlier said that foreign policy would not be affected whatever the outcome.
The vote was closely watched by Palestinians and Israelis seeking to gauge the readiness of European countries to act on Palestinian hopes for unilateral recognition by U.N. member states.
The 274-to-12 vote comes just as Sweden’s new center-left government prepares to officially recognize Palestine, a move condemned by Israel, which says an independent Palestine can only be achieved through talks.
U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon chastised Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday over the issue of Jewish settlements and challenged him to show “leadership” and make compromises for peace.
The uncharacteristically harsh language by Ban came during a visit to Jerusalem, where he denounced Israel’s plans to build 2,500 homes in Givat Hamatos as a “clear violation of international law.” The project would complete a band of Jewish housing in East Jerusalem and present another obstacle to the Palestinian goal of establishing a capital in the area.
“This does not send the right signals, and I urge the government of Israel to reverse these activities,” Ban said, standing next to Netanyahu. He added: “This is the time for leadership, Mr. Prime Minister — for the resumption of talks — for an end to polarization. There is not a moment to lose.”
Talks between Israel and the Palestinians broke down in April and violence followed, culminating in a 50-day war this summer.
A court in China’s western Xinjiang region has sentenced to death 12 people accused in attacks that killed 37 people in July, state media reported Monday.
The Xinhua News Agency said that the court in Kashgar prefecture sentenced 15 other people to death with a two-year reprieve and that nine people received life sentences. Xinhua said 20 others received terms of four to 20 years.
Tensions have run high between the Muslim Uighur ethnic group and Han Chinese in Xin­jiang, with ethnic violence killing hundreds over the past year. Authorities say they are battling separatist terrorists in the region, while Uighur groups accuse authorities of repression.
Yemen’s president on Monday appointed a diplomat and former oil minister as premier, after securing the backing of Islamists as well as Shiite rebels who control the capital, Sanaa, signaling an easing of a political deadlock in the violence-stricken nation.
Khaled Bahah, Yemen’s envoy to the United Nations, will have 30 days to form a government.
We will update you when news breaks about the virus.
Success! Check your inbox for details. You might also like:
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses!
Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games!
Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve.