2014-10~12
http://www.brecorder.com/editorials/0:/1241728:prime-ministers-china-visit/

Prime minister's China visit | Business Recorder

 Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's recent three-day visit to China led to the Chinese pledge to invest 42 billion dollars in Pakistan while Pakistan committed to helping China fight a terrorist threat in the far west. It is unclear whether the pledged 42 billion dollar investment is over and above the 34 billion dollar memoranda of understanding signed last year between the two governments with the PML-N government claiming at that time that it was foreign direct investment (FDI) and not a loan; and/or whether this amount included the 22 billion dollars under discussion during the Pak-China Joint Working Group (JWG) meeting in January 2014. Be that as it may, it is relevant to note that a senior official who participated in the JWG in January this year revealed that "Beijing will extend preferential and medium-term soft loans of $22 billion to Pakistan against government guarantees; we have carved out a plan to capitalise on the opportunity that Beijing has extended to Pakistan. Under the plan, Chinese companies will be offered the coal, hydropower and huge transmission line projects under a direct contracting regime, which is not against the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority rules." The Chinese reportedly demanded at the meeting that there be no international bidding for contracts - a PPRA condition - which, critics maintained, may well lead to over charging by the Chinese.However, those who opposed the Chinese offer on the grounds that it may violate the PPRA rules must be made aware of two facts: first, that the PPRA rules allow for exceptions to the clause relating to international bidding as mentioned by the official cited above and second, Pakistan has witnessed a further decline in FDI by 17 percent during the first quarter of the current fiscal year and this must be a source of serious concern to all, particularly the government. Thus Pakistan is not an attractive destination for FDI and in this case it would be prudent not to look the gift horse in the mouth. And with the Chinese pledging a whopping investment of 42 billion dollars one would hope that criticisms be tempered in the national interest.China has pledged to invest in our sadly deficient energy sector as well as other infrastructure sectors. However, the jury is still out as to whether China would invest or lend the amount to us. Details of the agreements have not yet been made public, however, FDI can be undertaken through any of the following methods: (i) by incorporating a wholly-owned subsidiary or company; (ii) by acquiring shares in an associated enterprise; (iii) through a merger or an acquisition of an unrelated enterprise; and (iv) participating in an equity joint venture with another investor or enterprise. One would assume that the Chinese companies, most if not all, wholly owned by the government, would participate in equity venture with a Pakistani investor or enterprise operating in the private sector. The rate of return allowed to the Chinese company was no doubt agreed during the prime minister's recent visit and it is fair to assume that the government would provide a sovereign guarantee, which was a Chinese demand in January of this year. However, one would conclude that an effective deal would be between the Chinese companies and those operating in the Pakistani private sector with the amount of the loan payable by the other investor. Payment by the Pakistani partner in the joint venture would impact on our foreign exchange reserves though a private sector operator may be reluctant to go into a joint venture if he has no control over the price of the utility.Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, according to the international media, pledged to help the Chinese deal with terror threat in its Xinjiang province, which is sourced to terrorists operating on our side of the border. India and Afghanistan governments have made much of Chinese request alleging that China has at last publicly acknowledged that Pakistan is exporting terror across all its borders. This is a serious charge though one would hope that the ongoing Zarb-e-Azb operation would be viewed by our long time ally as an all-out effort to combat the force of terrorism once and for all.