2014-10~12
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2014-10-21/are-hong-kong-protests-a-threat-to-sovereignty/1381327

Are Hong Kong protests a threat to sovereignty? | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
Against a backdrop of expected talks between Hong Kong protesters and authorities today, Beijing feels the very notion of China's sovereignty is at risk.
Against a backdrop of expected talks between Hong Kong protesters and authorities today, Beijing feels the very notion of China's sovereignty is at risk. But what is sovereignty in this modern age? James Giggacher writes.
Anyone watching Hong Kong's umbrella revolution continue to rain on Beijing's parade may be forgiven for asking if China is at risk of falling apart.
The Occupy Central and protestors' calls for non-interference in the 2017 election of the territory's chief executive represent more than a hunger for democracy and free and fair ballots.
At stake is the very notion of China's sovereignty in the territory.
When it comes to international relations and the realm of global politics, sovereignty is queen. It is the idea of supreme authority over a given realm and body politic, and is what gives states the fundamental right to be states.
In simpler terms it's that cantankerous old man rocking on his porch while nursing a shotgun and yelling at those pesky kids to get off his lawn. But poor old grandpa might soon be put "into a home".
For while sovereignty supposedly gives states the right to govern without any external interference, in today's world very few states actually have this power (some would even argue they never had it).
From global economic forces and the shackles of free trade agreements; supposedly international values like human rights and the responsibility to protect; and non-state actors ranging from enlightened NGOs to nefarious "death cults", the old man of world politics is facing many lawn encroachers.
Which raises an interesting conundrum - that sovereignty never was as simple and absolute as states would like to have us think and which we have commonly come to believe.
People often assume that sovereignty also means states have total internal autonomy, and in fact that they are one and the same. Nothing could be further from the truth. Just because states have the power to close off the borders, doesn't mean they can exercise absolute authority inside the country.
And when parts of a state seek greater autonomy, while not a direct play for sovereignty, it is an erosion of its viability in the original host state. This applies to even the most controlled of places - like China.
We need only look at the bright lights of Hong Kong's financial district to see how the supposed glue that's patched individual modern states together for so long - since the Peace of Westphalia ended a combined total of more than 100 years of European war way back in 1648 in fact - really comes unstuck.
When it comes to Hong Kong, China claims to rule "one country, two systems", enshrining the territory's right to a limited amount of self-governance. It's part of the reason why, when the territory was transferred back to China from the United Kingdom in 1997, Beijing agreed to the Basic Law - a mini-constitution that recognised the fundamental right of locals to choose their own leaders.
But by backflipping on the promise of universal suffrage, and determining to put forward its own prescribed candidates for the 2017 election, Beijing shows there is more "one country" than "two systems" in its current conception of rule; more like one country, one system. On the other hand, others argue China's leaders are well within their constitutional rights to limit candidates and govern Hong Kong as they see fit.
For Hong Kong's former Prada-wearing, now politicised youth, the question is whether Beijing's ideas for "one country", fit their vision of "two systems". Clearly, what Beijing proposes is unpalatable. For China, ceding greater autonomy than limited elections is out of the question.
Of course, Hong Kong isn't the only fracture point Beijing faces, with the vexatious problem of Tibet and the Uighurs also throwing its grand vision of greater China into the spotlight. Then there is the island that got away ... so far - Taiwan.
In all cases, people from these disparate, historically and culturally distinct parts of the nation are saying they want greater autonomy, and in Taiwan's case they want to maintain the current status quo of being left to their own devices. Autonomy provides the opportunity to tend their own lawns to a greater degree.
So what about the current impasse? Beijing is good at waiting out disquiet. But it is equally nervous about things it can't control. In particular, it is scared that it will lose control of a Hong Kong that is based on real democracy - particularly if that democracy then spreads like a virus and other parts of the country get crazy ideas about greater autonomy. It can't afford that politically.
Beijing's jitters aren't helped when Team America weighs in to the debate, urging that Hong Kong's democratic rights be respected. Nothing will push Beijing further in the opposite direction than stones cast from afar in Washington. It's now told the US to back out of its backyard.
And as the protestors still cling to the asphalt with gritted teeth and cracked fingernails, we are unlikely to see a repeat of the Tiananmen tragedy. But nor are China's leaders likely to loosen the reins any time soon. The recent violence and police crackdowns are a clear indication that Beijing's patience is wearing thin - though they are now willing to talk. Time will tell if this only serves to exacerbate momentum for increased defiance of central governance.
Sovereignty is one of the key themes at the 2014 Research School of Asia and the Pacific symposium Landscapes of sovereignty in Asia and the Pacific, taking place at the Australian National University, October 21-22.
James Giggacher is Asia Pacific editor at the Australian National University's College of Asia and the Pacific. View his full profile here.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.