2014-10~12
http://www.brecorder.com/world/europe/199083-trade-rights-on-agenda-as-chinaa39s-li-visits-germany.html

Business Recorder
LONDON: British Prime Minister David Cameron condemned the "appalling" attacks in Brussels and said Europe should stand together against the terror th
BRUSSELS: A series of apparently coordinated explosions ripped through Brussels airport and a metro train on Tuesday, killing at least 26 people in th
BRUSSELS: Belgian firefighters said at least 21 people had died after "enormous" blasts hit Brussels airport and the city's metro system on Tuesda
LONDON: Britain's credit rating will be put under pressure by a marked slowdown in fiscal consolidation unveiled in last week's budget, rating
FRANKFURT: German media and publishing giant Bertelsmann said Tuesday its b...
FRANKFURT: Deutsche Bank's finance chief said the first two months of 2...
JAKARTA: The Indonesian government set a 3.4 percent coupon for its $750 mi...
ST. PETERSBURG: Jurors on Monday awarded wrestling star Hulk Hogan a total ...
RIO DE JANEIRO: Brazilian politics looks a lot like a dark and twisted TV s...
BRUSSELS: Belgium's Foreign Minister Didier Reynders on Tuesday said au...
ISLAMABAD: The production of various petroleum products witnessed positive ...
ISLAMABAD: Korea Exim Bank has started work on a feasibility study for a ne...
KARACHI: State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) on Monday auctioned Pakistan Investme...
Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) Chairman Shahryar Khan expressed that T20 capt...
LONDON: Manchester United will tour China in July as part of their preparat...
MIAMI: Defending champion Rory McIlroy is determined to get back to winning...
Thin, crunchy, deep fried potatoes are a one of the heavenly snacks globall...
India is going gaga over Pakistani export Fawad Khan, the Pakistani actor h...
NEW YORK: For the first time, Pakistan will mark its National Day at the UN...
SHANGHAI: The Shanghai stock exchange has delisted investment firm Boyuan f...
MOSCOW: The Russian rouble weakened on Tuesday after news of explosions at ...
LONDON: Top-rated German bond yields fell near a two-week low on Tuesday as...
FRANKFURT: German media and publishing giant Bertelsmann said Tuesday its bottom-line profit doubled in 2015 as investment in digital media started to pay off. "2015 was a very good year for Bertelsmann," said chief executive Thomas Rabe."For the fir
FRANKFURT: Deutsche Bank's finance chief said the first two months of 2016 were the worst start to a year for banks in general that he has seen in his banking career. "That has left its marks on our business," Marcus Schenck told German daily Boe
JAKARTA: The Indonesian government set a 3.4 percent coupon for its $750 million global sukuk maturing in five years and a 4.55 percent coupon for a $1.75 billion global sukuk maturing in 10 years, a finance ministry official told reporters on Tuesda
ST. PETERSBURG: Jurors on Monday awarded wrestling star Hulk Hogan a total of $140 million -- $25 million more than he was granted last week over a sex tape posted by entertainment website Gawker.The 62-year-old Hogan, whose real name is Terry Bollea
RIO DE JANEIRO: Brazilian politics looks a lot like a dark and twisted TV series these days, complete with tales of betrayal, wire-tapped phone calls and a corruption scandal reaching into the highest halls of power.The twin political and economic cr
BRUSSELS: Belgium's Foreign Minister Didier Reynders on Tuesday said authorities feared that suspects involved in the deadly attacks at Brussels airport and a metro station could still be at large."The inquiry is still ongoing... because we fear
ISLAMABAD: The production of various petroleum products witnessed positive growth of 6.51 percent during the first seven months of the current fiscal year as compared to the corresponding period of last year.The petroleum products that contributed po
ISLAMABAD: Korea Exim Bank has started work on a feasibility study for a new Information Technology Park on Pakistan Software Export Board's (PSEB) land in Chak Shahzad and the loan agreement is expected to be signed by fall of 2016.According to
KARACHI: State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) on Monday auctioned Pakistan Investment Bonds (PIBs) of Rs 126.360 billion.The maturity period for these PIBs is 3,5,10 and 20 years. The coupon rate is 8.75 percent, 9.25 %, 9.75 % and 10.75 %, said SBP statemen
Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) Chairman Shahryar Khan expressed that T20 captain Shahid Afridi will retire after the conclusion of ongoing World T20 in India.“Afridi told me himself that he will retire after this World Cup [World T20]… I didn’t f
LONDON: Manchester United will tour China in July as part of their preparations for the 2016-17 season, the English Premier League giants announced on Tuesday.United will spend eight days in the country and play two matches, with fixture dates, venue
MIAMI: Defending champion Rory McIlroy is determined to get back to winning ways at the World Golf Championship Dell Match Play this week, his final tune-up event before next month's Masters in Augusta. The Northern Irishman has suffered fluctuat
Thin, crunchy, deep fried potatoes are a one of the heavenly snacks globally and it goes well with almost every cuisine. It cannot be denied that potato chips are great and we can consume them almost daily. They're the perfect snack food, but how
India is going gaga over Pakistani export Fawad Khan, the Pakistani actor has been receiving praises for his latest Bollywood flick ‘Kapoor & Sons’. Bollywood critically acclaimed actress Richa Chadda has expressed her admiration towards Fawa
NEW YORK: For the first time, Pakistan will mark its National Day at the UN, with a concert in the prestigious General Assembly hall on March 23.Organized by the Pakistan Mission to the UN, the concert will feature Ustad Rahat Fateh Ali Khan.The conc
SHANGHAI: The Shanghai stock exchange has delisted investment firm Boyuan for providing false information, a statement said, the first time a listed company has been removed under new disclosure rules.The Shanghai exchange on Monday approved the deli
MOSCOW: The Russian rouble weakened on Tuesday after news of explosions at Brussels airport and a metro station, reversing gains seen at opening. At 0842 GMT, the rouble was 0.4 percent weaker against the dollar at 68.10, weakening swiftly in reactio
LONDON: Top-rated German bond yields fell near a two-week low on Tuesday as explosions in Brussels spurred demand for safe haven assets amid fears the incident could be the latest in a number of militant attacks in Europe. The European benchmark yiel