2014-10~12
http://www.ifex.org/china/2014/11/25/xinjiang_verdict/

Chinese court upholds unjust life sentence against Uyghur scholar, trial marked by irregularities - IFEX
UPDATE from PEN International: China: One year after court upholds life sentence, Uyghur PEN member Ilham Tohti must be released, 20 November 2015
This statement was originally published on hrw.org on 21 November 2014. The Xinjiang High People's Court upheld a life sentence for "separatism" against China's most prominent Uighur scholar in proceedings that grossly violated his basic rights, Human Rights Watch said today. Ilham Tohti, an economics professor in Beijing, was convicted on September 17, 2014 after what amounted to a show trial for being a "secret separatist." The Xinjiang High People's Court did not hear Tohti's appeal in public, ignored his lengthy submission, and took the highly unusual step of announcing its ruling at a sentencing session inside the detention center where Tohti is being held. Tohti's lawyer received insufficient notice to attend the ruling, which only two of Tohti's relatives were allowed to attend. "Sentencing Ilham Tohti to life imprisonment is an injustice of the highest order," said Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch. "The court's verdict makes clear that Tohti did not incite violence or other unlawful action, and that he sought ways to reduce ethnic tension in Xinjiang. By upholding the life sentence, the High People's Court merely added insult to injury." Reflecting the highly politicized proceedings that marked Tohti's case since his arrest in January, the Xinjiang High People's Court effectively rejected Tohti's request for an appeal, which would have examined whether his criticism of state policies in Xinjiang genuinely constituted "separatism." The court did not respond to Tohti's written appeal, in which he detailed how he had always operated within the limits of his role as an academic and within his rights under China's Constitution. The High People's Court limited its ruling to affirming that the sentence was in line with what the law mandated for separatist "ringleaders." Tohti, who is originally from the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region (XUAR), was taken into police custody in Beijing on January 15, 2014. The Xinjiang police quickly transferred Tohti to Urumqi, the capital of the XUAR. On January 25, the Urumqi Public Security Bureau issued an online statement accusing Tohti of having "engaged in separatist activities" and having "fanned ethnic hatred." The Urumqi Intermediate People's Court convicted Tohti in September for inciting and coercing students into separatist activities, trying to "internationalize" the Xinjiang issue, and giving interviews to foreign media. Several former students of Tohti are expected to be tried in the coming weeks, according to the mother of one defendant. Human Rights Watch remains gravely concerned about their treatment in detention and their ability to receive a fair trial meeting international standards. "If the Chinese government really wants to improve the situation in Xinjiang, imprisoning for life those best placed to do so is precisely the wrong strategy," Richardson said.
On 21 February 2015, International Mother Language Day, PEN calls for the immediate and unconditional release of academic and Uyghur PEN Ilham Tohti. Tohti is a public intellectual from China's Uyghur minority and one the world's foremost scholars on Uyghur issues.

While China's President Xi Jinping is enjoying the hospitality of his hosts in the U.S., engaging in dialogue with those who disagree with him on many issues, scores of well-known dissidents and an unknown number of lesser known writers, artists, intellectuals, and activists will be languishing in the prisons that his government oversees for seeking to do nothing other than what he himself will be doing this week.
Draft counterterrorism law would require telecoms and ISPs to provide backdoor access and encryption keys to government
Strike by journalists calling for end to censorship met with state-led ideological campaign
The 100-page report shows that Tibetan refugee communities in Nepal are now facing a de facto ban on political protests, sharp restrictions on public activities promoting Tibetan culture and religion, and routine abuses by Nepali security forces.
"Crackdown on bloggers and social media users follows presidential transition"
IFJ's report documents the continued deterioration of press freedoms in Mainland China, as well as Hong Kong and Macau. It takes its title in direct response to Chinese authorities adopting more repressive measures in 2013 reminiscent of the Mao era four decades ago, including direct censorship, Internet surveillance, abuse of legal process, harassment and intimidation, and televised confessions of journalists and bloggers without trial.
A growing number of Chinese assert basic rights, share uncensored information online, and challenge perceived injustice despite the regime’s hostility toward organised dissent
President Hu Jintao, the leading jailer of press freedom defenders in the world
More than half of imprisoned journalists from minority regions, Tibet and Xinjiang
China "has more journalists, bloggers and cyber-dissidents in prison than any other country"
Authorities take "unprecedented step of rounding up over 30 of the most outspoken critics and 'disappearing' them for weeks"
Direct and indirect suppression of speech, books, music and other materials considered morally, politically or otherwise objectionable.
In recent years, the space afforded to civil society to operate freely has been shrinking dramatically across the world, presenting a serious threat to democracy and human rights. Eastern Europe and Central Asia (EECA) have been especially badly affected by this shrinking political space.
The report surveys the rocky landscape for media and public discourse since the ruling military junta lifted the curtain on the southeast Asian nation in 2012 after five decades of isolation from the modern world.

World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers
29 October 2015 


This report scrutinizes legislation covering freedom of expression and religious freedom in the Balkans, and whether satire and blasphemy are in any way regulated in these countries.

Center for Independent Journalism - Romania
 8 July 2015 


Despite its Constitutional commitment to free speech, India’s legal system makes it surprisingly easy to silence others. Routine corruption, inefficiency, and the selective enforcement of vague and overbroad laws allow individuals, or small groups, to censor opinions they find distasteful. - See more at: http://www.pen-international.org/the-india-report-executive-summary-and-key-findings/#sthash.TIIM2xbu.dpuf
As Globe International Center (GIC) reported, from 2012-2014, violations against journalists and the media increased compared to previous years and journalists faced external threats and intervention in their professional work, different types of pressures, threats, censorship in distribution, demands to reveal their information sources, to question and give testimony in mass by law enforcement bodies, especially by the General Intelligence Agency, use of criminal defamation law by politicians and public bodies or public officials censoring the media.
As the election looms for later this year, incidents in 2014 and in early 2015 involving the press raises serious questions on the genuineness of media freedom in Burma. The situation is alarming as the state seems to have heaped all the faults and fines on the media in the past year, which has seen a media worker being killed in October on the pretext of national security. International assistance has poured into the country to develop the media aimed at lifting and sustaining the state of media freedom. However, a viable press freedom environment seems unlikely to materialise in Burma before the end of this administration.
The media in Tripura is still dependent on the government for financial help, giving them an unprecedented upper hand to control press freedom in the state. As long as the political party in power is satisfied, the media is deemed to be okay otherwise there is an incredible pressure on the journalists as they have to not only endure insults but also face demotion in rank as well as being refused accreditation. - See more at: https://samsn.ifj.org/media-in-north-eastern-state-of-tripura/#sthash.0GypROMb.dpuf
In Dala, PEN Myanmar experienced a rare opportunity to work with a group of 200 or so high school children from the local state secondary school, which stands adjacent to the monastery compound.
There are far too many countries where news and content providers constantly face a very special and formidable form of censorship, one exercised in the name of religion or even God. And with increasing frequency, this desire to thwart freedom of information invokes the hard-to-define and very subjective concept of the "feelings of believers."
From August 28 to October 15, 2014, PEN American Center carried out an international survey of writers1 , to investigate how government surveillance influences their thinking, research, and writing, as well as their views of government surveillance by the U.S. and its impact around the world.
Legal regulation in the field of freedom of expression became more stringent as a result of abrupt introduction of amendments to the already undemocratic law ‘On Mass Media’ in December 2014.
Global press freedom has fallen to its lowest level in over a decade, according to the latest edition of Freedom House's press freedom survey. The decline was driven in part by major regression in several Middle Eastern states, including Egypt, Libya, and Jordan; marked setbacks in Turkey, Ukraine, and a number of countries in East Africa; and deterioration in the relatively open media environment of the United States.
This legal analysis examines the compliance of the 2014 News Media Law of Myanmar with international standards on freedom of expression and media freedom.
Political intolerance, activities of fundamentalists and drug trafficking groups, government impunity, and the continued existence and application of repressive speech laws, continue to limit FoE rights in many countries of the region.

Association for Freedom of Thought and Expression
24 April 2014 


The 100-page report shows that Tibetan refugee communities in Nepal are now facing a de facto ban on political protests, sharp restrictions on public activities promoting Tibetan culture and religion, and routine abuses by Nepali security forces.
IFJ's report documents the continued deterioration of press freedoms in Mainland China, as well as Hong Kong and Macau. It takes its title in direct response to Chinese authorities adopting more repressive measures in 2013 reminiscent of the Mao era four decades ago, including direct censorship, Internet surveillance, abuse of legal process, harassment and intimidation, and televised confessions of journalists and bloggers without trial.
Hungary’s independent media today faces creeping strangulation. State capture of Hungarian media is unfolding slowly but surely, principally through the “soft censor- ship” of financial incentives and influence that affect media outlets’ editorial content and economic viability.

World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers
28 January 2014 


Decade-long efforts to promote media reforms in Serbia have foundered. This report describes the mechanisms of a growing “soft censorship” that denies Serbia’s citizens their right to a free and independent media and offers recommendations that can help dismantle these insidious practices.

World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers
28 January 2014 


World Report 2014 is Human Rights Watch’s 24th annual review of human rights practices around the globe. It summarizes key human rights issues in more than 90 countries and territories worldwide, drawing on events through November 2013
Join Index on Censorship, writers, journalists and artists from around the world to condemn the shocking seizure of Turkish independent media group, Zaman. 


#USA presidential candidates: @eff wants to know where you stand on open access, the #TPP and privacy https://t.co/hW9txuf1Qd – 8:03 AM, 22 March 2016
555 Richmond Street West, Suite 1101, P.O. Box 407
 Toronto, ON, Canada, M5V 3B1
 Tel: +1 416 515 9622
 Fax: +1 416 515 7879
Contact us
IFEX publishes original and member-produced free expression news and reports. Some member content has been edited by IFEX. We invite you to contact [email protected] to request permission to reproduce or republish in whole or in part content from this site.