2014-10~12
http://www.japantoday.com/category/world/view/china-says-15-killed-in-terrorist-attack-in-xinjiang

China says 15 killed in 'terrorist attack' in Xinjiang ‹ Japan Today: Japan News and Discussion
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday.
Letters and numbers only; 5 to 50 characters. This cannot be changed later.
You will be sent an email to activate your account before you can log in.
Yes, I would like to receive news alerts from JapanToday
I agree to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
"They say they are victims of discrimination and left out of the benefits of development in Xinjiang, which has seen an influx of Han Chinese moving in from elsewhere in the country."
That's the same old story worldwide. The British brought the Chinese in to Malaya and Singapore and other Muslim regions to build the local economies because the local populations couldn't be interested. To this day, there are no economically developed Muslim-majority countries, apart from a few whose economies were built by non-Muslims.
why is "terror" in quote marks? Indiscriminate deadly attacks on public crowds sure sounds like "terror" to me.
The use of inverted commas by the writer or news agency AFP suggests that "the world" still has (or should have) some sympathy with Uighur separatists, and not with the heavy-handed Chinese government on this.
Actually these people would fall 100% into the category of Islamic 'terrorists' anywhere else.
Al Jazeera though tends to call all of them in their various guises around the globe 'fighters', in an attempt to stay neutral.
Interesting that quotation marks (inverted commas) can lay bare emotions and allegiances, though.
China suppresses all its non-Han communities.Immolations and suicide attacks are desperate reactions to extreme intolerant and plain nasty governance
Why does article put "terror" in quotation marks? If these attacks are not terrorism, what are they?
If it takes place in China, they're either 'terrorists' or freedom fighters. If it takes place in UK or USA, well, they're evil terrorists.
"
 If it takes place in China, they're either 'terrorists' or freedom fighters. If it takes place in UK or USA, well, they're evil terrorists.
 "
No, political correctness has eliminated terrorism in the US too. If it takes place in the US, these days it is typically called a "workplace incident". Ask Colonel Hassan about it.
Well the problem here is that it's China. And just how much can we trust China's news reporting? What if these "terrorists" are just an excuse for them to commit genocide and ethnic cleansing on an area that China wants to gain territory on for the Han Chinese?
With their current issues and territorial disputes with surrounding nations, I can't help but wonder how much is truth and how much is an attempt by the CCP to get some kind of "sympathy" on the world stage by saying, "China has Islamist terrorism too!" by whipping up a situation of their own making.
Terrorism against unarmed victims is terrorism in China or anywhere else. And I don't see China as making this kind of thing up for some sort of gain. There's no logic to that; plus we've seen a lot of other examples of suicide attacks in other places. Sadly, it's real.
I guess you missed the videos which showed Uighurs watching people play mah-jong and then suddenly pull out knives and axes and start chopping people, or those driving cars trying to run pedestrians down. But don't let that change your mind out the bogeymen - ordinary Chinese citizens going about their lives, minding their own business.
You may not like Chinese people, but innocent people don't deserve to be stabbed to death or blown up. You'd be throwing a hissy fit if it happened in your country. You know, some Americans are offended when others say 9/11 was a conspiracy nothing to do with Muslim extremists or terrorists. Double standards.
Since foreign reporters and journalists are not allowed into Xinjiang we only know the Chinese side of the story. Reports coming out of China are not always accurate and there is no way to verify them.
"Since foreign reporters and journalists are not allowed into Xinjiang/..."
What? That's simply not true. How come I've been reading lots of stories recently filed from that region. Some Western journalists have reported being tailed or harassed and some specific areas may be off limits during times of conflict, but they are allowed to go there and report.
For instance, I've read about how the Uighurs have benefited from many years of affirmative action and other state priviledges that Han don't get, and now the Uighur activists want ethnic (specifically religious) cleansing for the entire region.
You may not like Chinese people, but innocent people don't deserve to be stabbed to death or blown up. You'd be throwing a hissy fit if it happened in your country.
Since when did I say I didn't like Chinese citizens? Don't know if you've noticed but I specifically stated the CCP is the biggest two-faced crew on the planet expecting the world to buy the crap they're shoveling out to their own people. When a group lies so much it becomes hard to believe them. They cried "wolf" a bit too much to be believed. If you've been paying attention for the past few articles about what the CCP was doing over time to the region with a high Uighur populace, and pretty much uprooting them... and they've been in that area for centuries. Kind of like TIBET!
Because the Uighurs are mostly muslim of Turkish descent, and with the current fervor of active encouragement by actual Islamists trying to make their own Caliphate in the middle east, when the CCP made the decision to start moving in the ethnicities they want to move in and so the Uighers that are actively committing these acts of terrorism are taking a page from the Islamists terror groups. Before that, there was nary a peep out of or about them. It will only be a matter of time before the real Islamists start making their way to Xinjiang to "assist" their fellow muslims.
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday.

 You have to love how they could easily put them along the coast and shoot down…
This is all a sick joke, a great many women start off working when young &…
Posted in: Full-time housewives in strong position to enter job market - if they want to
"Robot drivers won't be able to take revenge. Hence I'll cut them off on a whim,…
Posted in: Autonomous cars aren't perfect, but how safe must they be?
Touristic places really have to catch up and cater to special diets. 


 It's always amused me…
Posted in: Trump demands Republicans embrace him as Democrats unleash attacks