2014-10~12
http://www.thestatesman.net/news/83409-china-afghanistan-decide-to-crackdown-on-xinjiang-militants.html

The Statesman: Abusing Thackeray is 'spitting at the sun': Saamana
The PDP chief spoke to media persons and termed her meeting with Narendra Modi 'good and very positive'.
The union home minister said that no decision has been taken with regard to withdraw Assam Rifles from the Indo-Myanmar border.
The MNS chief said the comments of Shreehari Aney, who resigned from the post of Maharashtra Advocate General, were not his own.
Belgium PM Charles Michel said priority is to rescue the victims of the blasts that struck Brussels.
Pakistan observes its National Day on March 23, to mark the anniversary of the resolution for Pakistan at the Muslim League's Lahore meeting in 1940.
These annual military exercises are the largest ever conducted in the Korean Peninsula and involve more than 17,000 American and 300,000 South Korean troops.
The midfielder feels his former boss will fit in well at United and Antonio Conte will do a good job at Chelsea too.
The overall viewer experience is enhanced as the audience is now privy to an aspect that was earlier out of bounds earlier.
New Zealand will face Pakistan in the most important match of Group 2 in Mohali on Tuesday, where a win for both the teams is crucial in their own aspects.
Chinese colours, sprinklers and waterguns are flying off the shelves while local manufacturers are facing losses of up to 75 per cent, Assocham said.
Grove authored best-selling books and widely cited articles, and spoke out on an array of prominent public issues.
The revamped insurance schemes have the potential to reduce distress in the farm sector and would be rolled out in a "mission mode" from April 1.
The Sufi conference inaugurated by Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Thursday last appears to have been part of a well-planned scheme of the BJP to create confusion among Muslims.
With Obama’s historic visit to Cuba, the US President and his counterpart, Raul Castro, have scripted a watershed chapter in what is often referred to as Pan-American history.
There have been many military intervention by the UN in the second half of the 20th century; running the gamut from large-sized interventions to small-scale ones.
Police said the call regarding flight 9W832 was received at around 4 pm.
The CM tweeted after an opinion poll predicted that AAP will win around 85 seats.
The service will benefit tourists and visitors to the grand precinct.
About 10,64,039 cases are pending in lower courts across the state.
Bhitarkanika National Park forest personnel made the arrests on Monday.
Naveen Patnaik said over 17 lakh saplings would be planted this year.
The festival is celebrated in the spring season with colours and water, much like Holi, but with additional Manipuri features.
The philosophy, life and cultural influences of the Parsis in India, whose Zoroastrianism faith is considered among the world's oldest religions
How often do we actually remember the contents of subjects that are taught in school?
With a low calorie diet, even Type 2 diabetes can be reversed.
Dipesh chakrabarty, a professor at the University Of Chicago, recently delivered a lecture on the implications of climate change on human history in Kolkata.
With the Central University of Jammu entering into a tie-up with the only Press Club in the state, students are guaranteed hands-on experience.
Cricket match between India and Pak sees the level of madness raised to an impossible pitch.
"#Brussels bound @jetairways flight from #Delhi has landed," the actress tweeted.
The Shiv Sena here on Tuesday dismissed Delhi-based publication Tehelka's comparison of the party founder Bal Thackeray with absconder mafia don Dawood Ibrahim Kaskar akin to "spitting at the sun".
Hitting out at Tehelka's recent story drawing parallels between the late Thackeray and Dawood, the party said that since any criticism of Shiv Sena or its leaders succeeds in attracting national attention, it has become a fashion to target them.
"Such crude allegations are being made by a publication which has been discredited for outraging modesty, sexual assault and rape... It was already taught a lesson by the people and buried... But it is now attempting a revival from the grave with such statements against Bal Thackeray," the Sena said in an edit in the party mouthpiece 'Saamana'.
It contended that such publications and individuals like Justice (retd.) M.S. Katju love to criticse Shiv Sena or the Thackeray, knowing it would create a nationwide controversy and attract limelight for them.
"At times, they virtually beg - 'Oh, somebody come and attack, us, assault us, or spit on us' - to grab national spotlight... But they don't deserve it, the nation was proud of Bal Thackeray and his patriotism," the edit said.
Citing various instances, the party pointed out how the late Thackeray had taught the Hindus of India to "live with pride and like men", saved them and united them to face adversities and challenges, and instilled a sense of self-respect in them.
"He believed in summary execution of terrorists, advocated Hindu human bombs attacking Pakistan to teach the religious fundamentalists there a lesson, giving tit for tat to terrorists' bullets... If all this is terrorism, then it is 'patriotric terror' and all one billion Hindus in the country support him," the edit side, ripping apart Tehelka's contentions.
However, it said that "we have not drunk a dead mother's milk, so we will not flaunt the guts to attack a dead body", the Saamana indicated it would decide how to tackle it (Tehelka) later.
On Sunday, Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray had adopted a dismissive stance vis-a-vis Tehelka saying his party activists would deal with it.
However, estranged cousin Raj Thackeray's Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) has taken up the issue strongly and demanded action against the Tehelka for its writings against Thackeray.