2014-10~12
http://www.just-style.com/analysis/chinas-xinjiang-steps-up-efforts-to-lure-garment-companies_id123440.aspx

China's Xinjiang steps up efforts to lure garment companies | Apparel Industry Analysis | just-style
The Xinjiang regional government in China's north west is pushing ahead with its planned US$3.2bn package of incentives to attract investment from textile and garment companies, just-style has learnt.
The government of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region announced planned legislation to find its own funding on 20 October, and hopes to secure supplementary funding from the central government in Beijing. The legislative proposal is within a 2014 'action scheme' package that includes a list of companies promising to build plants next year and who should receive subsidies as a result.
In September, the Xinjiang government also issued construction standards for textile manufacturing plants. Companies will only be granted subsidies if they comply.
It wants the package to create 420,000 jobs in the 22m population region and push its textile and clothing output to just over US$14bn by 2018, according to government documents. The regional government hopes its initiative will have created 1 million jobs, with an output of US$34.8bn, by 2023.
The incentives will apply to both Chinese and foreign companies, Cao Lianlian, an official from the business promotion office of the Yili Autonomous Prefecture Garment and Apparel Industry Association, in northern Xinjiang, told just-style. Cao added that the programme's details will soon be finalised, as China's central government is keen to improve the remote Xinjiang region's economy.
The primary beneficiaries will be new clothing factories in Xinjiang's south, which will enjoy a period of free or low rents; access to language and vocational training centres for workers; grants to help build factories; and subsidies for local cotton and electricity purchases.
Cotton farmers in Xinjiang will also profit, as the region produces 60% of China's raw cotton, but "the lack of factories has meant low demand from local enterprises," a Xinjiang government communiqué notes. "With poor rail links to the rest of the country, Xinjiang's cotton farmers have felt the pinch in recent years."
The fund's aim to "increase employment and incomes and maintain social stability," in the region will prop up slumping employment numbers, a Xinjiang government communiqué noted. "We prefer garment companies, because it hires more workers," Cao added.
Xinjiang province is already the main beneficiary of China's new cotton policy, which will pay subsidies to farmers when the market price falls below a pre-set benchmark.
However, not only is the region one of the poorest in China, it has also been hit by violence in recent months, including ethnic riots and terror attacks. Authorities have blamed separatists from the mostly-Muslim Uighur ethnic minority who resent China's repressive policies towards them. An influx of Han Chinese from the rest of China has added to the tensions.
The Chinese 12th five-year (2011-2015) development plan for the local textile industry reveals that Ürümqi, Xinjiang's capital, has been earmarked for development as the regional textile and apparel trading centre, while Aksu, Shihezi and Korla have been designated as three textile industrial cities.
Meanwhile, large textile industrial parks will be located in seven cities, towns and counties - Hami city, Bachu county, Alar city, Xayar county, Manas county, Kuytun city and Khorgas town.
China has also plans to transport exports from the region on a 1,200 mile high-speed railway through Xinjiang to a Chinese-funded port in Pakistan's Gwadar. From there exporting to Europe and North America will be faster and safer than on the long, politically vulnerable, route through the South China Sea and the Indian Ocean.
However, as Mike Flanagan recently wrote on just-style: "The central government honestly believes that money will benefit Xinjiang's native Uighur population. But similar (though less expensive) attempts at textile-driven growth over the past 15 years have got nowhere."
Click on the following link for further insight: THE FLANARANT: Is China's dream becoming a nightmare scenario?
An interactive databank with intelligence on the major apparel sourcing countries
Get the latest comment, analysis and breaking news first. Sign up for the just-style newsletter.
Get the daily news as it happens, and our weekly best-of roundup.
©2016 All content copyright just-style.com
Published by Aroq Ltd. Address & registered office: Aroq House, 17A Harris Business Park, Bromsgrove, Worcs, B60 4DJ, UK. 
Tel: Intl +44 (0)1527 573 600. Toll Free from US: 1-866-545-5878. Fax: +44 (0)1527 577423.
Registered in England No: 4307068.
Get full access to all content, just $1 for 30 days
just-style gives you the widest apparel and textile market coverage.
But only paid just-style members have full, unlimited access to all our exclusive content - including 16 years of archives.
I am so confident you will love complete access to our content that today I can offer you 30 days access for $1.
It’s our best ever membership offer – just for you.