2014-10~12
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/26064/20141204/china-claims-the-wests-involvement-with-middle-east-ensues-more-extremism.htm

China Says U.S. Involvement in Middle East Creates More Extremism : Related China : Chinatopix
"The facts prove that by letting jihadists pass unchecked into Syria to join battle has caused the expansion of the extremist group Islamic State," People's Daily reports.(Photo : news.vice)
People's Daily, the official newspaper of the Communist Party of China (CPC), says that the U.S. and its allies' involvement in the Middle East has had a negative effect and only leads to the expansion of more extremism within the Islamic countries.
China has become more concerned with the conflict in the Middle East as of late, and according to reports, Xinjiang already faces a threat from Islamist extremists.
But according to People's Daily, the West's support of anti-government movements has only thrown more fuel into the fire. The report claims that the West's backing and arming of rebel militias with jihadist connections to help with the fight in Syria only leads to the expansion of extremism.
"The facts prove that by letting jihadists pass unchecked into Syria to join battle has caused the expansion of the extremist group Islamic State," the newspaper wrote referring to the group known as ISIS, ISIL or Daesh.
China isn't the only one who has had this stance on the conflict in the Middle East. Russian President Vladimir Putin has also expressed his concerns about the aggressive involvement of the West actively enabling the collapse of the regime of Syrian government.
"It could throw the entire system of international law and order out of balance," Putin said in 2013.
Many Western pro-war advocates point towards the recent Islamic state-targeted airstrikes led by the U.S. of having a positive impact on the conflict in Syria with extremists, but even that's not the case according to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.
"It isn't true that the strikes are helpful. They would of course have helped had they been serious and efficient. We are running the ground battles against Daesh," Assad said. "And we have noticed no change."
Meanwhile, China wants to play a bigger role and is willing to participate in peace talks with Afghan and Pakistan government as well as the Taliban. China hopes to succeed by offering to build a railway transportation network, which could potentially help rebuild the economy within Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent rumors have emerged that Sacramento Kings All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins could finally move to the Los Angeles Lakers in the summer following his recent comments about the Hollywood squad’s young players after the two team’s recent game. read more