2014-10~12
http://www.tennesseedaily.com/index.php/sid/228228217

China's Constitution 'Useless' Without Enforcement: Lawyers - Tennessee Daily
Dozens of prominent rights lawyers have signed an open letter calling on the ruling Chinese Communist Party to uphold the rights and freedoms enshrined in the country's constitution, activists said this week.
The letter had garnered more than 100 signatures, more than 60 of them members of China's embattled legal profession, its author told RFA ahead of China's first-ever National Constitution Day on Thursday.
"We wish to see our constitution taken seriously, and protection for human rights and the right of citizens to go about their business in peace to be taken seriously," the letter, penned by rights lawyer Wang Quanping, said.
"This should be the Chinese dream," it said, in a reference to President Xi Jinping's slogan for the country's future.
But it said simply setting aside a day in the calendar to honor the idea of the constitution isn't enough.
"If there is no system to oversee its implementation, and those who are in breach of the constitution aren't investigated and brought to justice, then the constitution will remain outside the legal system," the letter said.
"In such circumstances, the constitution is just a piece of paper filled with empty words, and the Chinese dream becomes the Chinese nightmare," it said.
"The authority of the constitution is turned to waste paper."
Wang said the letter was signed by a broad cross-section of Chinese society.
"There people from as far away as Xinjiang, there are teachers, drivers, waiting staff and barkeeps, university students and office workers," he told RFA. "It's really very broad."
According to Wang, China's civil servants and Communist Party members are becoming more serious about the importance of the constitution.
"Nowadays, Chinese civil servants must take an oath to uphold the constitution, which is a very good thing," Wang said. "But I think this is still rather symbolic."
"People won't really respect the constitution, and it won't really have any authority, until the government actively pursues constitutional rule," he said.
"There are far too many instances of actions that are in breach of the constitution; far too many to count," he said.
He called on China's National People's Congress (NPC) to play an active role in enforcing the principles of free speech and human rights enshrined in the 1980 document.
"Without investigations into those who breach it, the constitution is useless," Wang said.
In Beijing on Thursday, several hundred people with long-running complaints against the ruling Chinese Communist Party were detained after they staged a protest outside the headquarters of state-run broadcaster CCTV, Shanghai-based activist Zhu Jindi said from within the unofficial Jiujingzhuang detention center on the outskirts of Beijing.
"We're in Jiujingzhuang right now; they brought us all here, one bus at a time," Zhu said. "There were 800 people here today, all from Shanghai alone."
"They took my ID card away, and then they started calling our names, one by one, to go in."
She said the protest was timed to coincide with National Constitution Day.
"But as soon as we got out of the subway, the police surrounded and stopped us, and forced us to get on the buses," Zhu said. "China has no rule of law, but we had to come out...if we hadn't, we would be even less likely to get a result."
Earlier this week, two activists in Shanghai unfurled banners in the city's People's Park calling on the government to uphold Article 35 of the constitution.
But petitioner and rights activist Chen Jianfang said she and fellow activist Sun Hongqin were "roughly handled" by four or five police officers, when they were thrown into a police vehicle.
"They used brute force, and one policeman...grabbed me by my hair, and banged my head against something, and bashed my head with his fist," Chen told RFA.
They asked us: "Do you have any qualifications to be talking about the law like that?"
Article 35 states that Chinese citizens enjoy the freedoms of expression, publication, association, movement and protest.
Sun said they were held in a local police station for three hours on Wednesday before being released.
"I had unfurled a banner, and Chen Jianfang took a photo," she said. "They snatched away two banners that I had in my purse."
Eyewitness Tan Lanying said the police had handled the petitioners "with violence."
"As soon as Chen Jianfang took her photo, the police rushed in like mad dogs and snatched their stuff away, and several of them dragged her away and beat her," Tan said.
"There is no guarantee for the personal safety of ordinary people; it's terrible to beat people up just for putting up a banner," she said.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
New York, March 21 (IANS) Police in the US state of Tennessee have launched an investigation into a controversial Facebook photograph showing two young children with their hands and mouths bound and covered with duct tape, a media report said.
Published under a caption that read, "Kids for Sale 45 percent Off because they bad," the photo was sent to police by "a few sources" on Thursday, NBCNews.com reported on Sunday.
The photo was published on the now-deleted profile of a Facebook user last week.
A man believed to be a cousin of the Facebook user described the photo as "basically a joke" in a post on the social media site on Friday.
"I don't really (too) much care about the people they have opinions," the post read.
"Our family and friends know the love we have for all the kids in our family it's just crazy that out of a whole lifetime they judge a person off of this one event. Basically a joke at the moment that people just went overboard about. People make mistakes and that's what this situation is, a lesson learned. They are safe, unharmed, and loved that's all it is to it," he said.

New York, March 21 (IANS) Police in the US state of Tennessee have launched an ...
Tribal women from Attappady meeting District CollectorP. Marykutty in Palakkad on Monday seeking the closure ...
in Nashville, working with some of the city's best session musicians along the way. Fifty ...
(FAHR-mahr) to a 10-day contract. <br>Farmar (6-2, 180) has appeared in 490 games (30 starts) ...
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (AP) -- Many Tennessee farmers who participated in the state&apos;s return to industrial ...
Get the latest Tennessee Daily headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Tennessee Daily - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved