2014-10~12
http://www.dispatch.com/content/stories/national_world/2014/11/29/15-die-in-attack-in-xinjiang-despite-increased-security.html

15 die in attack in rebellious Chinese region despite increased security | The Columbus Dispatch
Enjoy the convenience of home delivery plus Digital D. Sign up for our BEST VALUE today!
Online? On the go? Enjoy unlimited premium dispatch.com content plus the E-Edition for computer and iPad.
Award-winning journalism conveniently delivered to your home. Choose the custom package best suited for you!
The E-Edition includes all of the news, comics, classifieds and advertisements of the newspaper.
And it's available to subscribers before 6 a.m. every day.
All current subscribers have full access to Digital D, which includes the E-Edition and
unlimited premium content on Dispatch.com, BuckeyeXtra.com, BlueJacketsXtra.com and
DispatchPolitics.com. 
Subscribe
today!
KASHGAR, China — Fifteen people died in a terrorist attack in China’s rebellious Xinjiang
region, state media reported Saturday, despite Beijing’s recent efforts to strengthen security in
the far-west part of the country.
China’s Xinhua news service said that 11 of the dead were “mobsters” who tossed explosive
devices and attacked civilians with knives on a food-market street in Shache County, south of
Kashgar, about 1:30 p.m. on Friday. Police on patrol nearby killed the 11 attackers, and 14 people
were wounded, Xinhua reported.
Shache, part of Kashgar Prefecture, is the same county where 37 people were reportedly killed in
an ax-and-knife attack on July 28. Xinhua reported that a local court sentenced 12 of the attackers
to death in October. Fifteen more were sentenced to death with a two-year reprieve.
As in the reported attack in July, none of what Xinhua reported on Saturday could be
independently confirmed, including the assertion that mobsters were responsible. Foreign media are
restricted from traveling freely in much of Xinjiang, an enormous region in western China beset by
years of ethnic unrest.
Muslim Uighurs, who once were the majority in Xinjiang, have long resented Beijing’s rule and
policies of assimilation. Over the past two years, Uighur militants have unleashed repeated attacks
against police and civilians, not just in Xinjiang, but also in other regions of China.
As is standard in state media, Xinhua’s report on Saturday did not describe the alleged
terrorists, nor did it detail the ethnicity of those attacked. Xinhua said that “a number of
explosive devices, knives and axes were found at the scene,” and that those wounded were receiving
treatment in local hospitals.
The attacks follow efforts by President Xi Jinping to shore up security in Xinjiang, a region of
vast natural resources that is crucial to Xi’s plan to expand economic ties with Kazakhstan and
other nations that border the region.
State media reported this week that Xinjiang was seeking 3,000 former troops from the People’s
Liberation Army — people “of high political quality and military experience” — to supplement
security in the region.
Also this week, the government issued a six-month report card on Xinjiang’s security campaign.
The report said police had detained 334 suspects and prosecuted 294 cases of people sharing
materials to promote terrorism, including videos and audio.
After a series of deadly attacks in Xinjiang, Xi fired Gen. Peng Yong from his job as chief of
the People’s Liberation Army in the region last year. But the attacks in Xinjiang have continued,
if not intensified, in the past year.
In September, a series of bomb blasts killed 50 people in Luntai County, southwest of Xinjiang’s
regional capital, Urumqi, state media said.
That attack came five months after state media reported that terrorists engaged in two suicide
car bombings that killed 31 people and wounded more than 90 in Urumqi. That is the deadliest attack
in Xinjiang, one that appeared aimed at striking fear in Han Chinese, who are now a majority in
Urumqi.