2014-10~12
http://www.singaporestar.com/index.php/sid/228349837

China Sentences 8 to Death for Knife, Bomb Attacks in West - Singapore Star
BEIJING - China sentenced eight people to death for their roles in two knife and bomb attacks this spring in the country's violence-plagued western region of Xinjiang, state media reported on Monday.
In April, a knife and bomb attack at a train station in the region's capital of Urumqi killed three and injured 79. In May, 39 people at a Urumqi market were killed when attackers hurled explosives out of the windows of two SUVs.
Five others were given a sentence of "suspended death", which in China is usually tantamount to life in prison. Four others were given lesser prison sentences, state television said.
State television broadcast interviews with some of the defendants, who said they had been led astray and regretted their actions.
In such a heavily politicized environment, a fair trial was impossible, said Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for exile group the World Uyghur Congress.
"China has not looked at all for the root causes of the incident from the point of view of their own extreme policies," he said in an emailed statement.
Hundreds of people have been killed in the region in the past two years, mostly due to violence between the Muslim Uighur minority and the majority Han Chinese. The government has blamed a series of attacks in other parts of China, including Beijing, on Islamist militants from Xinjiang.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest. Beijing denies that.
Xinjiang, resource-rich and strategically located on the borders of central Asia, is crucial to China's growing energy needs. Analysts say most of the proceeds from sales of its resources have gone to majority Han Chinese, stoking resentment among Uighurs.
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) The government on Monday approved 15 FDI proposals worth Rs.7,261.60 crore, based on the recommendations of Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB).
The approved proposals were from Sun Life Financial (India) Insurance Investments, Nippon Life Insurance Compnay, Tata AIA Life Insurance Company and others.
Of the approved proposals, the highest proposal emerged from Nippon Life Insurance Company at Rs.2,265.5 crore, followed by Tata AIA Life Insurance Company at Rs.2,055 crore and Sun Life Financial (India) Insurance Investments' Rs.1,664 crore.
Another proposal amounting to Rs.6,885 crore has been recommended to be approved by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) while 10 proposals coming from Apollo Hospitals Enterprises, Lupin and others have been rejected.
In the list of eight deferred proposals, Whirlpool Asia, Bupa Singapore and RMS Arc Insurance Borkers featured while Equitas Holdings withdrew its application.

Singapore / Tokyo, Mar.21 (ANI): Subway is the most important transport system in Singapore with ...
Singapore - Two maintenance staff working on elevated tracks in Singapore's mass transit system were ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) The government on Monday approved 15 FDI proposals worth Rs.7,261.60 ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Following his maiden win in the Indian Open last weekend, ...
SINGAPORE: Two maintenance staff of Singapore’s MRT?operator SMRT have been killed after a track accident ...
Get the latest Singapore Star headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Singapore Star - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved