2014-10~12
http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/11/26/press-digest-china-idUSL3N0TG08220141126

PRESS DIGEST -China - Nov 26 | Reuters
SHANGHAI Nov 26 Chinese newspapers available in
Beijing and Shanghai carried the following stories on Wednesday.
Reuters has not checked the stories and does not vouch for their
accuracy.
- China is set to launch policies to support Chinese exports
and make domestic firms more competitive in global trade,
sources told the official newspaper.
- Beijing will accelerate construction of new energy car
charging infrastructure and offer funds to cities that promote
new energy cars, the Ministry of Finance said on Tuesday.
- A draft proposal related to reform of China's power
industry has been handed to central authorities, sources told
the state-run newspaper. The reform includes trying to attract
more private funds into the sector and overhauling pricing.
- A music video celebrating Chinese President Xi Jinping's
relationship with his wife has gone viral in China, receiving 50
million views on the country's Tencent video service.
- China will draft more regulations to combat terrorism in
the country's restive western Xinjiang region, officials told
the newspaper. The draft would deal with issues such as
religious extremism, managing Internet usage and cracking down
on terror-related audio and visual materials.
- China had nine research institutions in the world's top
200 this year, up from three last year, according to the Nature
Index 2014 Global. The Chinese Academy of Sciences ranked number
six overall.
For Hong Kong and South China newspapers see..... 

(US$1 = 6.1355 Chinese yuan)

 (Reporting by Chen Yixin and Adam Jourdon; Editing by Anupama
Dwivedi)
The latest photos from deadly explosions at Brussels Airport and a metro station in Belgium's capital.  Slideshow 
Using citation analysis to identify authors whose papers wield outsized influence
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.