2014-10~12
http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2014-12-04/china-shows-shawshank-redemption-to-celebrate-citizens-rights.html

China Celebrates Constitutional Rights Citizens Are Arrested For - Bloomberg Business
Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
Students in more than 400,000 schools across China recited the country’s 135-article constitution today in a national celebration of the document that enshrines one-party rule as well as a series of freedoms that some are being jailed for exercising.
In Shanghai, propaganda officials are marking the first Constitution Day by screening movies, including “The Shawshank Redemption” and “Training Day” which depict corruption in the U.S. law enforcement systems, at a film festival to promote better awareness of the 32-year-old charter.
China’s new celebration, coming as the government continues to prosecute rights activists and dissenters, was decreed at the ruling party’s October plenum, which promised improved legal processes. So far, President Xi Jinping’s push for improved rule of law doesn’t include any mechanisms to decide when rights guaranteed by the country’s constitution, such as freedom of speech or assembly, have been breached.
“These are all basic human rights protected by the constitution; if that cannot be guaranteed, it’d be useless even if you designate everyday as a Constitution Day,” said Wang Jianxun, a Constitutional law professor at China University of Political Science and Law. “That would only become a nice-sounding but hollow echo.”
Xi’s administration has abolished labor camps, allowed citizens more grounds to sue the government, and is now promoting the constitution as it seeks to address public discontent with corruption Xi has warned threatens the party’s rule. That leadership is enshrined in the preamble to the charter, which was adopted by the National People’s Congress on Dec. 4, 1982, based on a previous version enacted in 1954.
There is little sign that Xi’s legal push has led to more tolerance of dissent. Gao Yu, a veteran journalist, was tried on Nov. 21 for leaking internal party documents on censorship to overseas media. On the same day, Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti lost his appeal against his conviction for promoting separatism with a website on Xinjiang and religious affairs. The two cases have been criticized for suppressing views deemed critical of or threatening to the ruling party.
While celebrating the constitution may be intended to bolster the legitimacy of China’s leadership, it could increase the challenge the leaders face in the future, according to Jerome Cohen, a professor of law at New York University who specializes in Chinese law.
“Chinese are highly intelligent people who will increasingly note the contrast between the promises in the Constitution and the realities of daily life,” he said.
Xi, both the president and Communist Party general secretary, said yesterday that the document is “a good constitution” because it suits “our national situation, reality and the development demands of the era.” Zhang Dejiang, chairman of the National People’s Congress, said the charter reflects “the glorious course during which the Chinese Communist Party led the people through long struggle.”
Legal scholars say that without a mechanism that can adjudicate disputes over the document, which could suggest independence of judges and a separation of powers, the constitution isn’t enforceable. As part of the celebration, around 200,000 judges will pledge their fealty to the constitution.
“There’s this common impression: violating laws brings legal consequences, but little can be done about any breaches of the constitution,” said Zhou Hanhua, a senior researcher at Institute of Law of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
Various suggestions to address the problem, including setting up a commission under the National People’s Congress or establishing a constitutional court, remain “in the phase of scholarly discussion,” said Zhou, who’s also director of the Institutes’s Research Centre on the Constitution and Administrative Law.
“There’s long road ahead,” said Zhou. “The Constitutional process in China is very much a work in progress.”
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Opera or Internet Explorer.