2014-10~12
http://www.standartnews.com/english/read/new_bulgarian_connection_in_the_global_jihad_ii__the_tatar_link-6203.html

New "Bulgarian" connection in the global jihad II. - The Tatar link - Standart News
It is a little known fact that in the ranks of the Taliban, the jihadists set up "Jamaat Bulgar" in honor of the medieval Muslim state Volga Bulgaria. They later were joined by Uighurs (Muslim ethnic group in China) and the brigade was renamed "Uighur-Bulgarian Jamaat".
In the early 90s a movement for Bulgarian national revival appeared in Tatarstan, which considers that the Bulgarians were forcibly renamed Tatars by Stalin. At the same time, "Tatar brand" is considered to be compromised in the Arab world because of the Tatar-Mongol invasion and destruction of the capital of the Caliphate of Baghdad in the middle of the XIII century. The Muslim from the times of Volga Bulgaria corresponds to the ideal times of pure Islam.
After the entry of US troops in Afghanistan the "Bulgar Jamaat" was drawn into the Taliban-controlled tribal areas in Pakistan. Currently their headquarters is in the village of Degon.
The first emir of "Jamaat Bulgar" Rais Mingaleev organized an attack against the mufti of Tatarstan Ildus Faizov whose car was blown up in the summer of 2012, but he miraculously survived.
A vouge "Bulgarian" connection appeared again in the global jihad: the influential analytical edition SITE announced that an Islamist Facebook page reported the death of Anis Bulgarian Mujahideen (Al Bulgari), hit by a drone bomb in Waziristan, Pakistan. Anis was part of the network "Hakka" - the elite guard of the Taliban in the tribal areas along the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan.
Yet Arab specialist prof. Vladimir Chukov warned that the Western experts have made a mistake again. Last year, the Institute for Near East Policy in Washington announced that a Bulgarian jihadist was killed on the battlefield in Syria. Then it turned out that Salman Bulgarskiy was the citizen of the Republic of Tatarstan in the Russian Federation, and is alive and well.