2014-10~12
http://www.theepochtimes.com/n3/1091499-who-built-this-unusual-1300-year-old-siberian-palace-and-why/

Who Built This Unusual 1,300-Year-Old Siberian Palace… and Why?
This 1,300-year-old structure in Siberia could be a fortress, a summer palace, a monastery, or even an astronomical observatory. (Gdehorosho.ru)
In Beyond Science, Epoch Times explores research and accounts related to phenomena and theories that challenge our current knowledge. We delve into ideas that stimulate the imagination and open up new possibilities. Share your thoughts with us on these sometimes controversial topics in the comments section below.
Experts are still divided over a mysterious 1,300-year-old fortress-like structure located on an island in the middle of a Siberian lake.
From The Siberian Times: With its island location and towering square walls that were once impenetrable, it looks at first glance to be an ancient fortress or kremlin to keep out enemies. Others believe the 1,300-year-old structure in rural Siberia has more mystical properties and might have been a summer palace, monastery, or even an astronomical observatory.
Whatever it is, more than a century after it was first explored, archaeologists are no further forward in discovering the secrets of Por-Bajin.
Most likely constructed in 757 A.D., the complex has fascinated and frustrated experts in equal measure since it was found in the middle of Tere-Khol, a high-altitude lake in Tuva, in the late 19th century. First explored in 1891, with small-scale excavation work later carried out between 1957 and 1963, it was not until 2007 that in-depth research took place at the site.
Archaeologists found clay tablets of human feet and faded, colored drawings on the plaster of the walls. They found giant gates and fragments of burnt wood. But nothing yet has provided a definitive answer as to why the structure was built, and excavation work continues.
“Por-Bajin is legally treated as one of the most mysterious archaeological monuments of Russia,” says the official website for the complex. 
“Apparently it was built at the period of the Uighur Khagante nomadic empire (744-840 A.D.), but it’s not clear what they built a fortress for in such a solitary place, far from big settlements and trade routes. The architecture also raises many questions and it is reminiscent of a model of an ideal Chinese city-palace,” the website continues.
Por-Bajin, which translates as “clay house” in the Tuvan language, is located in the very center of Eurasia, on the border of Russia and Mongolia. It sits on a small island in a lake high in the mountains between the Sayan and Altai ranges, about five miles west of the isolated Kungurtuk settlement in southern Siberia.
MORE: You’ve Been Thinking About Plato’s ‘Atlantis’ Wrongly This Whole Time
Laser mapping of the site prior to the first major excavation in 2007 helped experts build a 3-D model of what the community might have looked like. Despite its age, parts of the structure were well preserved when archaeologists arrived to examine the 3.5-hectare site, with walls clearly visible.
Outer walls standing 10 meters (33 feet) tall and 12 meters (40 feet) wide formed a rectangular shape, creating what many have interpreted as a protective kremlin-like fortress. A main gate was discovered, opening into two successive courtyards connected by another gate.
Walls on the inside were smaller, at about 1 meter (3.3 feet) tall, forming the outline of buildings, with a large building in the center of the site. Some of the walls and panels were covered with lime plaster painted with horizontal red stripes.
The main complex in the inner courtyard had a two-part central structure, one behind the other linked by a covered walkway. It had a tiled roof and was supported by 36 wooden columns resting on stone bases.
MORE: Enduring Mystery Surrounds the Ancient Site of Puma Punku
Construction materials, and the way the site is laid out, told the experts it was built in a typically Chinese architectural tradition, most likely in the second half of the eight century.
‘The building was most likely of the post-and-beam construction characteristic of Chinese architecture from the T’ang Dynasty,” wrote head archaeologist Irina Arzhantseva in a report published in The European Archaeologist in 2011.
“Finds of burnt timber fragments point to the use of the typical Chinese technique of interlocking wooden brackets, called dou-gung. Ramps led down to the two flanking galleries which were roofed, open spaces looking onto the access to the main pavilion.”
A crumbled structure at the Por-Bajin site. (Por-Bajin Fortress Foundation)
While debate continues about the use of Por-Bajin, growing evidence suggests it was a community or palace complex centered around a Buddhist monastery. Certainly, its layout could be seen as typical of the palaces of the Buddhist Paradises as depicted in T’ang paintings.
Books from the era also describe the existence of Uighur towns, extensive building activities, and a transition from a nomadic to sedentary lifestyle. Indeed, there may have been as many of 15 of these settlements in Tuva alone, all square or rectangular shaped and enclosed by walls with a main gate.
What puzzles the experts, however, is the lack of rudimentary heating systems, particularly given that Por-Bajin sits at 2,300 meters (7,500 feet) above sea level and endures harsh Siberian weather.
Por-Bajin in winter, with the surrounding lake frozen over. (Irina Arzhantseva)
If anything, it suggests that the complex was only ever occupied for a brief period of time, or was used as a seasonal home in the warmer summer months. Some experts even say that the climate, or other natural occurrences in the region, brought occupation of the site to an early end in the 9th century.
Por-Bajin sits on a bed of permafrost with evidence that the melting of this ice—as a result of warmer temperatures over the past century—has caused not only a destruction of the walls, but also a dramatic rise in the depth of the lake water.
While debate on its origins will no doubt continue for decades, those who have seen Por-Bajin are all in agreement about its beauty. 
Republished with permission from The Siberian Times. Read the original. 