2014-10~12
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2014/12/08/Death-sentences-for-eight-involved-in-China-attacks/7551418054905/

8 receive death sentences after Urumqi, China, attacks - UPI.com
URUMQI , China, Dec. 8 (UPI) -- A Chinese court has sentenced eight people to death for two attacks, earlier this year, that killed 46 people, China Central Television reported Monday.
The Intermediate People's Court in Urumqi, the regional capital of western Xinjiang province, sentenced two people involved in a railway station attack in April which killed one person and injured 79 in Urumqi and six convicted of killing 39 people and injuring 90 in an Urumqi explosives-throwing incident.
The violence prompted a campaign against separatist terrorism in Xinjiang, home to a Muslim Uighur majority. The crackdown has seen dozens of people jailed and over 200 killed in clashes between Uighurs and police.
The exiled World Uighur Congress has blamed repression of the local culture, by the Chinese government, as the cause of the restlessness. Beijing blames fervor for separatism as the cause, and claims the country's policies have improved Xinjiang's economy.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.