2014-10~12
http://www.dawn.com/news/1143298/china-pledges-42bn-investment

China pledges $42bn investment - Newspaper - DAWN.COM
BEIJING: China promised Pakistan on Saturday investment worth $42 billion as Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif oversaw the signing of 19 agreements and memorandums centred on the energy sector before he met Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing.
The new agreements pave the way for China’s state-owned companies to help build four new power stations in Pakistan, while the deals also cover the supply and mining of coal, the prime minister’s press office said.
“The deals signed between China and Pakistan are worth $42bn. The whole investment is being made by China,” said Amir Zamir, spokesman for the ministry of planning and development.
“There is no loan or aid for the energy projects, but pure investment by the Chinese,” he said.
On its part, Islamabad pledged to help Beijing fight militants in China’s north-western province of Xinjiang.
The province has seen a series of clashes and attacks on civilians that have left more than 200 dead over the past year.
Beijing blames some of the region’s violence on a group known as the East Turkestan Islamic Move­ment (ETIM).
The group seeks independence for the region, home to the mostly-Muslim Uighur community.
China’s foreign ministry said the two countries had signed more than 20 agreements, including on nuclear power and on the deepwater port of Gwadar, which China is developing.
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif held bilateral meetings with President Xi and Premier Li Keqiang at the Great Hall of the People.
Both sides discussed matters of mutual interest, including energy, economic relations and regional situation.
The Chinese leaders reiterated their support to Pakistan in developing its economy and maintaining stability, describing the two countries as “iron friends” and “all-weather partners”.
They stated that they would create a green channel for timely release of funds for development projects initiated by China in Pakistan.
SHARIF’S ASSURANCE: Mr Sharif told the Chinese president that Pakistan would “resolutely fight the East Turkestan Islamic Movement terrorist force”, China’s foreign ministry said.
“We stand behind China on all core issues from Taiwan and Tibet to human rights and the fight against the ETIM,” Mr Sharif added within earshot of journalists.
Pakistan will increase its coordination with China on Afghanistan too, so as to “jointly maintain regional peace and stability”, Mr Sharif said. “My government will also do all it can to guarantee the safety of Chinese companies and workers in Pakistan,” he said.
President Xi was forced to cancel a planned trip to Pakistan in September due to the anti-government protests in Islamabad.
The Chinese president visited India the same month, signing a raft of deals.
Mr Sharif acknowledged that “somehow the circumstances led to the postponement of the visit”, adding to Mr Xi: “I believe you will be visiting Pakistan very soon.”
Uplift projects: Talking to media after his meeting with Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif said that the signing of a number of agreements had infused new spirit in the development work which was interrupted by sit-ins.
“It will be more than a game-changer. The price of electricity will come down once coal-fired industries start working as they produce cheap energy,” he said.
Mr Sharif said the completion of these projects would also increase Pakistan’s export, end unemployment and power shortage and generate job opportunities.
I want to see RESULTS. Signing agreement is fine, but achieving improvement in Pakistani citizen's daily life remains a pipe dream. PPP as a ruling party during its last 5-year term did not make much difference. Similarly during past 18 months PML(N) has not produced much of a positive results in any of key problem areas, such as: electricity problem, poor childrens education, poor, old and sick people's medical healthcare, high rate of unemployment, and not to mention high rates of corruptio & crimes. Lets not forget why poor tax payers of Pakistan should be paying high expenses of Priminister's House or for Provincial Chief Minister's?
$54B - what is the investment plan? in how many years?

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
