2014-10~12
http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2014/10/05/dont-deport-uighurs-says-suaram/

Don’t deport Uighurs, says Suaram | Free Malaysia Today
They may face persecution in China, says the human rights group.
KUALA LUMPUR: Suaram today urged the government against deporting the 155 Uighurs recently arrested in Bukit Jalil.
The human rights group said there was concern that deporting them “might put their life at risk”.
The Uighurs, including 76 children, were found in a pair of cramped apartments in a raid on Wednesday.
Putrajaya, which is seeking closer trade ties with Beijing, came under criticism 18 months ago from international human rights groups and the United Nations refugee agency for sending six Uighurs back to China in an earlier case.
Malaysia is not a signatory to the UN’s key refugee treaty, but the government is bound by international principles against deporting “persons to places where they may face persecution”, Suaram said.
Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking and predominantly Muslim minority in China’s Xinjiang region. Many quarters have alleged decades of political and religious repression of the Uighurs by the Chinese authorities.
Tensions in Xinjiang have soared amid a wave of violence over the past year, including deadly attacks on civilians, which China blames on “terrorists”.
Suaram said the detained Uighurs should have their cases adjudicated by Malaysian courts, and urged the government to work with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) on the matter.
In December 2012, Malaysia deported six Uighurs while the UNHCR was processing their refugee claims, sparking an outcry.
It deported an earlier batch of 11 Uighurs in 2011, saying they were involved in a human-smuggling syndicate.
Readers are required to have a valid Facebook account to comment on this story. We welcome your opinions to allow a healthy debate. We want our readers to be responsible while commenting and to consider how their views could be received by others. Please be polite and do not use swear words or crude or sexual language or defamatory words. FMT also holds the right to remove comments that violate the letter or spirit of the general commenting rules.The views expressed in the contents are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of FMT.
Home | About Us | Disclaimers / Copyright | Advertise | Contact Us | Copyright (C) 2009-2016 MToday News Sdn. Bhd. All Rights Reserved.