2014-10~12
http://www.southeastasiapost.com/index.php/sid/226324929/scat/303b19022816233b

155 Uighur immigrants found in Malaysia apartments - South East Asia Post
KUALA LUMPUR - More than 150 illegal immigrants from China's restive Xinjiang region, including dozens of children, were arrested in a Kuala Lumpur suburb on Friday, Malaysia media reported. The 155 Uighur, who could be seeking political asylum in Malaysia, were found in two apartment units in Taman Bukit Jalil, The New Straits Times (NST) said. Immigration officers, who raided the apartments after a tip-off, said there were 79 adults and 76 children holed up in crowded conditions. Most of the immigrants were sleeping when the police descended on them on Wednesday night, Sin Chew Daily said...
Dhaka - Bangladesh on Monday banned boats from sailing through a key southwestern river after a ship loaded with coal capsized, threatening the sanctuaries of rare dolphins in the world's largest mangrove forest.
The authorities imposed the ban after the ship sank in the Shela river carrying over a thousand tons of coal, raising fears for two sanctuaries of endangered Irrawaddy and Ganges river dolphins and the delicate ecology of the Sundarbans forest.
"We have decided to ban all types of naval movement at the Shela river indefinitely," said shipping secretary Ashok Madhob and ships would be rerouted to another channel on the edge of the forest.
Bangladesh suspended cargo boat transport through the same river in 2014 after a catastrophic oil spill that damaged the Sundarbans and triggered concerns for the forest's dolphins and other endangered animals, including Bengal tigers.
But the suspension was lifted under pressure from local trade groups, who have said the Shela river must be open for cargo vessels to ensure the smooth supply of industrial goods and food-grains to the southwestern region.
Officials said the hull of the vessel, which sank carrying more than 1 200 tons of coal and is yet to be salvaged, was cracked.
"The sunken coal could pose a grave threat to the aquatic biodiversity of the Sundarbans," said forest conservator Zahir Uddin Ahmed.
"If the coal contains too much sulphur and if it dissolves into the water there is dire concern," Ahmed said.
"The effect of oil spillage from the ship could also be damaging."
Spread over 10000kmsup2;, the Sundarbans is the world's largest mangrove forest and the core part of it is a Unesco-listed World Heritage Site.
The forest is home to scores of endangered Bengal tigers, spotted deers, fresh-water crocodiles and rare dolphins.
The pristine mangrove forest, said to be the South Asian nation's largest protection against tsunamis and cyclones, is already facing unprecedented human and industrial encroachment and poaching by gangs of sophisticated pirates.
This month thousands of Bangladeshi environmental activists joined a 250km long march to the country's southwest to protest the construction of two coal-fired power plants near the Sundarbans.
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
Geneva 21 March 2016 (WMO) - The year 2015 made history, with shattered temperature records, ...
Bangkok (Thailand), Mar.22. (ANI): Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of Myanmar's National League for ...
Beijing, Mar. 22 (ANI): Nepal Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli, who is presently in Beijing ...
Get the latest South East Asia Post headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 South East Asia Post - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved