2014-10~12
http://sputniknews.com/asia/20141211/1015738617.html

China's Xinjiang Capital Bans Muslim Burqas
"The law in the predominantly Muslim region comes as Beijing intensifies a campaign against religious extremism that it blames for the violence that has left hundreds dead in the past 20 months," the Associated Press reported.
The new regulation was passed by Urumqi legislators on Wednesday, however, before coming into force the law should be approved at the regional level.
Xinjiang authorities are trying to fight increasing Islamic extremism in the region by introducing laws banning traditional Muslim clothing. However, critics underscore that veils and beards cannot be considered an expression of extremism. They insist that the predominantly Muslim Uyghur minority has the right to exercise its religious beliefs, adding that the measures imposed on ordinary Uyghurs may trigger public anger and ignite further tensions in the region.
Hundreds have been killed in a string of terror actions in Xinjiang in the last 20 months. Islamist radicals had attacked governmental security forces as well as peaceful civilians in the region. The Chinese authorities have accused foreign-backed Muslim extremists, particularly the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a radical Islamist organization.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.