2014-10~12
http://www.dw.de/china-court-sentences-8-to-death-for-xinjiang-attacks/a-18115517

China court sentences 8 to death for Xinjiang attacks | News | DW.COM | 08.12.2014

China has condemned eight to death for attacks in the Xinjiang region. Five others were given suspended death sentences - a penalty normally commuted to life in prison - with another four jailed.


On Monday, the state broadcaster China Central Television reported that a court had sentenced eight people to death for involvement in two attacks that killed 46 people earlier this year in the far western region of Xinjiang. The sentences, handed down by the Intermediate People's Court in Urumqi, represent the Chinese government's latest move in a harsh crackdown on unrest in the vast resource-rich region.

In one incident (pictured), assailants armed with knives and explosives 
attacked a train station in the regional capital, Urumqi, in April, killing one person and wounding 79 on the final day of a visit to the area by Chinese President Xi Jinping. Two assailants also died.
China has sent paramilitary police into Xinjiang in a "show of force"
The following month, 
attackers killed 39 people and wounded 90 when they threw explosives and plowed two vehicles through a market in Urumqi, state media reported. Police killed four attackers on the scene.

In October, China sentenced another dozen people to die for their roles in a July melee with police that left 
up to 100 people dead. At least 200 people have died in a year of clashes and attacks in and around Xinjiang, including four people just last month in 
an attack on food stalls - and 11 assailants killed by police immediately after.

Beijing blames "separatists," but rights groups charge that China's repression of cultural and religious minorities has fueled unrest in Xinjiang, which borders Central Asia and is home to the Uighurs, a largely Muslim group who speak a Turkic language. Chinese authorities argue that the country's policies have boosted economic development in Xinjiang and that Beijing has upheld minority and religious rights in a country that has 56 officially recognized ethnic groups.

In September, China sentenced Uighur scholar and prominent dissident Ilhan Tohti to 
life in prison for "separatism."
Chinese state media say an attack on food stalls in China's western region of Xinjiang has resulted in 15 deaths. Eleven of those killed were allegedly assailants tracked down by police. (29.11.2014)
  

A Chinese court has rejected the appeal of prominent Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti against his life sentence for "separatism." This comes as journalist Gao Yu is tried on charges of leaking state secrets. (21.11.2014)
  

A Chinese court has sentenced 12 people to death in connection with a July attack in the restive Xinjiang region. Roughly 100 people were killed in clashes between police and an armed mob in China's northwestern region. (13.10.2014)
  

Chinese authorities have blamed Uighur separatists for the bloodbath at a train station in southwestern Yunnan province. The assault by knife-wielding assailants left more than two dozen people dead. (02.03.2014)
  

A one year crackdown has been announced for the Xinjiang region in western China following the worst attack on Chinese soil in years left 31 people dead. China called the attack a "serious violent terrorist incident." (23.05.2014)
  

More and more Chinese citizens are giving their New Year monetary gifts through digital means. This is not considered heartless but cool. So cool that even the Communist Party is doing it, says DW's Frank Sieren.
Chinese President Xi Jinping has demanded 'absolute loyalty' from the state media. Beijing is also to oblige foreign media companies to obtain state permission before publishing online.
Beijing has approved a new counterterrorism law aimed primarily at controlling ethnic unrest domestically. But the law has drawn criticism from foreign governments who argue it violates human rights.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
