2014-10~12
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/article/1626245/npc-standing-committee-reviews-draft-laws-fight-terrorism-and-espionage

China reviews draft laws to fight terrorism and espionage | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
China's legislature is reviewing drafts of its first counterterrorism law and a revamped counter-espionage law in the wake of growing risks to national security at home and abroad.
The two drafts were submitted yesterday to the National People's Congress Standing Committee for deliberation at the start of its session, Xinhua reported.
The move follows a Communist Party pledge at its fourth plenum last week to safeguard national security. It comes amid rising concern over violent attacks by Uygurs in the restive Xinjiang region, which Beijing has branded as separatist activity but Uygur groups attribute to resentment at Beijing's ethnic policies.
Under the draft counterterrorism law, an intelligence centre would be set up as well as an information-sharing system across government departments. It would include measures involving the management of internet security and the transport of dangerous materials, as well as strengthening border controls.
"China needs to enact a law against terrorism in the face of the current complicated battle against terrorism in order to improve China's anti-terrorism legal system," Xinhua said.
A court in Xinjiang sentenced 12 people to death two weeks ago for an attack in July in Yarkand that killed 37 civilians and 59 terrorists. A knife attack at a train station in Yunnan province in March raised concerns about whether violence was spreading, and whether intelligence gathering was up to standard.
Pan Zhiping , a professor at Xinjiang University's Central Asia Research Centre, said intelligence gathering had led to a crackdown on violent groups in Xinjiang. "But work in intelligence gathering is still insufficient and we need to work more on that," he said.
Although there are no specific counterterrorism laws at present, in 2011 the NPC Standing Committee defined terrorist activities as those conducted through violence, destruction, intimidation and other means to create social panic, endanger public security, threaten state or international organisations, or cause casualties.
The legislature is also reviewing the second draft of the counter-espionage law, which will replace the existing National Security Law. The law would mean foreign organisations and individuals who conduct espionage, or who instigate and sponsor others into committing espionage, would be punished, Xinhua reported.
It promises to ensure confidentiality regarding state and commercial secrets and personal privacy during investigations.
The National Security Law, which came into effect in 1993, mainly regulates the work of the country's national security agencies, whose major duty is counter-espionage.