2014-10~12
http://www.malaysiasun.com/index.php/sid/228037601

Dismal Conditions Push Uyghurs to Escape From Thai Facility - Malaysia Sun
Poor conditions at a government social shelter in southern Thailand have forced more than 100 Uyghurs to escape after nearly eight months of detention in the Southeast Asian nation to which they had fled from northwestern China's restive Xinjiang region, an escapee said.
The mostly women and children who escaped in early November were part of more than 300 Uyghurs discovered during a raid on a suspected people-smuggling camp in a rubber plantation in Thailand's Songkhla province near the border with Malaysia.
When Thai immigration authorities discovered the group in March, they suspected them to be Uyghurs fleeing northwestern China and declared them to be illegal immigrants, although reports said some of them claimed to be Turkish.
Nearly 170 woman and children were placed in a government-run shelter in Songkhla, while the men were held in immigration detention centers in various locations until their nationalities could be verified, according to the reports.
About 20 of those who fled had been recaptured, according to a source.
"Life is so hard [there]," one of the women who escaped from the shelter told RFA's Uyghur Service. "The food is bad, and [portions are] reduced day by day. There was no one who didn't get scabies there. They [camp authorities] would not take us to the hospitals."
"There were always Chinese agents coming there and threatening to take us back, so we were scared. We decided that instead of returning to China and risking our lives there, we would escape.
"We thought it was better to die than to be sent back to China. We climbed over the walls and sneaked out the door ... Nobody, no country, is showing an interest in our situation or is concerned about us, so if we were deported to China, they [Chinese authorities] would eat us alive."
The more than 100 who escaped were mostly women and children, and included only five or six men, said the woman who declined to give her name or location.
Authorities fear that some of the escapees may have fallen victim to a human-trafficking ring, according to reports.
Of those who escaped, about 21 women and children have been captured, the woman said.
"They cannot go anywhere now," she said. "They are living under worse conditions [than before]."
Rights groups accuse the Chinese authorities of heavy-handed rule in Xinjiang, including violent police raids on Uyghur households, restrictions on Islamic practices, and curbs on the culture and language of the Uyghur people, forcing many to flee overseas.
A spike in violence in the Xinjiang region, home to millions of mostly Muslim Uyghurs, has left hundreds dead during the last two years. China has blamed the violence on terrorists and Islamist insurgents seeking to establish an independent state.
Many Uyghurs who were repatriated from the various countries to which they had fled have been punished.
U.S.-based Human Rights Watch has pointed out that the Chinese government frequently accuses Uyghurs, especially those seeking asylum, of being terrorists or separatists without substantial proof.
The woman who spoke to RFA said those detained in Thailand had been told that a Muslim community was helping out by providing food, but that they never received it.
Sek Wannametee, director-general of Thailand's Department of Information, said Monday that no decision had yet been made whether to return the Uyghurs to China, the reported.
The Uyghurs first had to undergo several immigration procedures, including nationality verification, he said.
"The nationality verification is ongoing," he was quoted as saying. "Thailand insists on respecting human rights."
When the refugees were apprehended, their nationality could not be confirmed.? But U.S.-based Uyghur activists identified them as Uyghurs, a Turkic-speaking, mostly Muslim minority group from China's Xinjiang region, according to a report.
Thailand's Deputy Prime Minister Prawit Wongsuwon said he believed that Chinese authorities would not mistreat them if they were repatriated, the reported.
Qin Jian, China's consul in Songkhla, said the refugees had not cooperated with Chinese authorities, including the verification of their nationality. As long as the Uyghurs did not have a criminal record, China would not prosecute them, he said, according to reports.
The Uyghur American Association in Washington, D.C. has urged the Thai government to allow the Uyghurs access to the United Nations' refugee agency to submit asylum requests.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Hockey India (HI) on Monday picked a young squad for the 25th Sultan Azlan Shah Cup to be held in Malaysia from April 6-16, with established players like Akashdeep Singh, P.R. Sreejesh, Dharamvir Singh, V.R. Raghunath and Birendra Lakra missing, in a bid to try out "different permutations and combinations", according to its president, Narinder Batra.
"This squad is nothing about seniors or juniors. We are trying out different combinations and permuations in the bid to prepare before Olympics. It is not about those players being rested or injured," Batra told IANS.
However, defender Harmanpreet Singh, midfielder S.K. Uthappa and strikers Nikkin Thimmiah and Mandeep Singh have made a return to the 18-member national squad.
Karnataka player Nikkin was out of the side due to a hand injury. He even missed the major part of Dabang Mumbai's campaign in the Hockey India League (HIL) which concluded last month.
Uthappa played a key role in Kalinga Lancers's runners-up finish in the HIL and he has been rewarded for his hard work.
Young goalkeeper Akash Anil Chitke has taken Sreejesh's spot as a new entrant, while midfielder Harjeet Singh, captain of the national Under-21 side, has also got his maiden national call-up, alongwith Surender Singh.
Chitke was declared as the 'Promising Player of the Tournament' at the 5th senior National Championship in 2015.
Centre-half Sardar Singh will captain the side, while senior forward S.V. Sunil is the vice-captain. The squad includes five defenders in the form of Rupinder Pal Singh, Jasjit Singh Kular, Kothajit Singh, Surender Singh and Harmanpreet Singh.
The midfield will be under the leadership of Sardar and he will be assisted by Danish Mujtaba, Chinglensana Singh, Manpreet Singh, S.K. Uthappa and Harjeet Singh.
Sunil, Talwinder Singh, Mandeep Singh, Ramandeep Singh, Nikkin will form India's attack line.
Besides India, defending champions New Zealand, 2012 Olympic bronze medallists Australia, Pakistan, Japan, Canada and hosts Malaysia will also be taking part in the annual tournament.
With the 2016 Rio Olympics coming up a few months down the line, the Sultan Azlan Shah Cup will serve has as a barometre to measure the teams' preparations.
"India has a good record in the Sultan Azlan Shah Cup and we would like to keep it that way," Sardar said.
"Being an Olympic year, this tournament assumes special importance as it will give us an idea where we stand. Playing against good teams like Australia, New Zealand and Pakistan and not to forget hosts Malaysia will give the team critical competition exposure.
"It will be a good opportunity trying out new things and new combinations in the tournament to see if they work," he added.
In preparation for the tournament, the Indian men's team is currently undergoing a training camp that started on March 7 at the SAI Centre in Bengaluru.
"The boys have been working hard as a unified unit and are geared up for the tournament ahead. Azlan Shah will be good testing ground for us right before the Rio Olympics and will be very crucial for the team. We are focused on improving the game technically and implement the right strategies," chief coach Roelant Oltmans said.
Indian have enjoyed a good run in the Sultan Azlan Shah Cup since it started as a biennial tournament in 1983 before becoming an annual affair since 1994.
India have won the prestigious tournament five times in 1985, 1991, 1995, 2009 and 2010, while earning the bronze on six occasions and finished runners-up once in 2008.
However, it won't be easy to counter the likes of Australia, New Zealand, Pakistan and Malaysia. Hosts Malaysia will be eager to make an impact under their new coach Stephen van Huizen.
The round-robin format of the tournament will help the Indian team to get decent amount of competition exposure under its belt. It will also give them an opportunity to gauge the fitness level of the players, since the conditions in Ipoh around this time of the year will be extremely hot and humid. The Indian team has shown considerable improvement in the fitness levels in the past couple of years.
Defenders: Rupinder Pal Singh, Jasjit Singh Kular, Kothajit Singh, Surender Singh, Harmanpreet Singh.
Midfielders: Danish Mujtaba, Chinglensana Singh, Manpreet Singh, Sardar Singh (Captain), S.K. Uthappa, Harjeet Singh.
Forwards: Talwinder Singh, Mandeep Singh, S.V. Sunil (Vice-Captain), Ramandeep Singh, Nikkin Thimmaiah.

Sydney - Two pieces of debris found in Mozambique have arrived in Australia for experts ...
Malappuram (Kerala) March 22 (IANS) Malappuram-based Ma'din Academy will offer bachelors and masters programme in ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Hockey India (HI) on Monday picked a young squad for ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 21 (IANS) Malaysia's education ministry on Monday ordered all schools in Kedah ...
DUBAI, 22nd March, 2016 (WAM) -- A total of 248 out of 375 students, teachers ...
Get the latest Malaysia Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Malaysia Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved