2014-10~12
http://newsdaily.com/2014/12/sensitive-topics-off-agenda-as-chinas-li-goes-overseas/

World News | NewsDaily
JAKARTA (Reuters) – Indonesian cabbies clashed with motorbike drivers working for online apps on Tuesday, pulling them off their bikes and assaulting them as thousands of drivers took to the streets of Jakarta calling for a ban on ride-hailing apps like Grab and Uber. Police were overwhelmed as convoys of blue and white taxis operated by PT Blue Bird and…
LESBOS, Greece (Reuters) – The United Nations refugee agency said on Monday it would not operate in “detention centers” on the Greek island of Lesbos for migrants and refugees arriving from Turkey, dealing a blow to the European Union’s agreement with Ankara last week. The UNHCR said migrants and refugees were being held against their will at the reception facilities…
BRUSSELS (Reuters) – At least 26 people were killed in twin attacks on Brussels airport and a rush-hour metro train in the Belgian capital on Tuesday, triggering security alerts across western Europe and bringing some cross-border transport to a halt. A witness said he heard shouts in Arabic shortly before two blasts struck a packed airport departure lounge at Brussels…
UNITED NATIONS/SEOUL (Reuters) – The U.N. Security Council agreed on Monday to a Chinese request to remove sanctions on four ships the United Nations had blacklisted for ties to Pyongyang’s arms trade. The agreement came after China secured assurances the vessels would not use North Korean crews, a U.S. official said. China asked the United States on March 16 for…
DUBAI (Reuters) – A senior member of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards urged the government on Tuesday to follow its supreme leader’s vision for a self-reliant economy and said the Guards wanted to play a bigger role to make that happen. Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran’s most powerful figure, called for a “resistance economy” on Sunday, saying U.S. policies to restrict business with…
SEVILLE, Spain (Reuters) – Howard Jackson, a man of around 40 from the West African state of Liberia, is a well-known and colorful figure at a busy intersection entering the southern Spanish city of Seville. Dressed up in one of his more than 200 costumes, from Peter Pan to Little Red Riding Hood to Julius Caesar, he has been selling…
WASHINGTON (Reuters) – The United States and its allies conducted 15 strikes against Islamic State militants in Iraq and Syria on Monday, a military statement said. In Iraq, 13 strikes hit targets including Islamic State units, a bridge and a tunnel, said the statement on Tuesday. Two strikes were carried out in Syria, it added. (Reporting by Washington Newsroom Editing…
WASHINGTON (Reuters) – On Jan. 21, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry met with Iraq’s prime minister in Davos, Switzerland, and handed him a personal note from President Barack Obama pleading for urgent action. Obama’s confidential message to Haider al-Abadi, which was confirmed to Reuters by two U.S. officials and has not been previously reported, was not about Islamic State…
BAGHDAD (Reuters) – Iraq will not resume pumping crude through a Kurdish pipeline to Turkey unless it reaches a financial agreement with the Kurdish regional government, the Iraqi oil minister said on Tuesday. Adel Abdul Mahdi confirmed on his Facebook page that the central Iraqi government had decided to stop pumping crude from fields under the management of its state-run…
DHAKA (Reuters) – Suspected Islamist militants stabbed a Christian convert to death in northern Bangladesh on Tuesday, the latest in a series of attacks on minorities in the Muslim-majority nation. The South Asian country has seen a surge in Islamist violence in which liberal activists, members of minority Muslim sects and other religious groups have been targeted. Police said three…
Recommend NewsDaily on a variety of social networks to help spread the word.
Get the latest news with our free email newsletters, updated daily and weekly. Or view hourly updated newsfeeds in your RSS reader.
Let us know what you think of the new NewsDaily. We’re listening and working to make your experience better.

 NewsDaily -- a service of the science news site ScienceDaily -- is an automated general news site featuring breaking stories
 from major news wires, newspapers, and other sources across the world.
 


About ScienceDaily/NewsDaily  | 
 Advertise  | 
 Privacy  | 
 Terms of Use  | 
 Contact Us  | 
 COPYRIGHT


 Copyright © 2013 SCIENCEDAILY, LLC, AND/OR ITS LICENSED SOURCES. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.


 Note: Views expressed on NewsDaily do not necessarily reflect those of ScienceDaily or its staff.
