2014-10~12
http://www.cambodiantimes.com/index.php/sid/228711813

China is world's worst jailer of the press; global tally second worst on record - Cambodian Times
This statement was originally published on cpj.org on 17 December 2014.
The Committee to Protect Journalists identified 220 journalists in jail around the world in 2014, an increase of nine from 2013. The tally marks the second-highest number of journalists in jail since CPJ began taking an annual census of imprisoned journalists in 1990, and highlights a resurgence of authoritarian governments in countries such as China, Ethiopia, Burma, and Egypt.
China's use of anti-state charges and Iran's revolving door policy in imprisoning reporters, bloggers, editors, and photographers earned the two countries the dubious distinction of being the world's worst and second worst jailers of journalists, respectively. Together, China and Iran are holding a third of journalists jailed globally - despite speculation that new leaders who took the reins in each country in 2013 might implement liberal reforms.
The 44 journalists in Chinese jails are a jump from 32 the previous year, and reflect the pressure that President Xi Jinping has exerted on media, lawyers, dissidents, and academics to toe the government line. In addition to jailing journalists, Beijing has issued restrictive new rules about what can be covered and denied visas to international journalists. Coverage of ethnic minority issues continues to be sensitive; almost half of those jailed are Tibetan or Uighur, including academic and blogger Ilham Tohti and seven students imprisoned for working on his website, Uighurbiz. Twenty-nine of the journalists behind bars in China were held on anti-state charges. (Read detailed accounts of each imprisoned journalist.)
CPJ The administration of Iranian President Hassan Rouhani has also maintained repressive measures against the press. This year, Iranian authorities were holding 30 journalists in jail, down from 35 in 2013 and a record high of 45 in 2012. CPJ's 2014 International Press Freedom Award winner Siamak Ghaderi was released from prison in July, but that same month, Iranian authorities jailed Jason Rezaian, a Washington Post reporter. By late 2014, the government had still not disclosed the reason for Rezaian's arrest or the nature of charges against him.
The list of the top 10 worst jailers of journalists was rounded out by Eritrea, Ethiopia, Vietnam, Syria, Egypt, Burma, Azerbaijan, and Turkey. The prison census accounts only for journalists in government custody and does not include those in the captivity of nonstate groups. For example, CPJ estimates that approximately 20 journalists are missing in Syria, many of whom are believed held by the militant group Islamic State.
Vientiane, March 20 (IANS) Voters in Laos on Sunday cast their ballots in the National Assembly and Provincial People's Council elections.
President Choummaly Sayasone and Vice President and General Secretary of the ruling Lao People's Revolutionary Party (LRPR) Bounnhang Vorachith both voted at polling stations in the capital Vientiane, EFE news reported.
There are reportedly around 600 candidates vying for five-year terms in Sunday's vote.
All candidates are either members of or have been approved by the LPRP, which has ruled the country as a one-party state since 1975.
"I am very happy to have seen people enthusiastically exercising their rights casting their votes for people's representatives so that they can have seats at Assembly and councils. This election is very meaningful to our country," President Sayasone said.
A total of 3.74 million people were eligible to vote.
In the last National Assembly elections in 2011, the LPRP won 128 seats, alongside just four approved, non-partisan candidates.

Mining operations by a Chinese coal company in northern Laos are causing structural damage to ...
Myanmar's parliament on Monday approved a proposal by the incoming government to reduce the number ...
An estimated three out of four jobs that make up the global workforce are either ...
A report to mark World Water Day reveals that the poorest people in the world ...
<br>The boss of Australia's stock exchange has quit just days after police began investigating allegations ...
Get the latest Cambodian Times headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Cambodian Times - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved