2014-10~12
http://www.chinapost.com.tw/china/national-news/2014/10/05/418720/International-writers.htm

International writers strike at Beijing for 'cultural genocide' - The China Post
Along with the prodemocracy student protests in Hong Kong, the PEN's condemnation was the closest to be made against Beijing, geographically speaking, as Bishkek is right beside the China-Kyrgyzstan border.
Closing their 80th congress on Thursday, more than 200 writers from 40 PEN centers around the world condemned China for sentencing Uighur writer-scholar and PEN member Ilham Tohti to life imprisonment for alleged separatism.
The writers' congress likewise condemned China for banning the teaching of Tibetan and Turkish, which the Uighurs speak, in Tibetan and Uighur schools.
PEN has had among its members such renowned writers as Mario Vargas Llosa of Peru, Toni Morrison of the United States, Nadine Gordimer of South Africa, Franc,ois Mauriac of France and Thomas Mann of Germany.
Tohti was a lecturer in economics at Minzu University in Beijing and was running a popular online publication on Uighur affairs when he disappeared last January in Beijing.
His wife received a notice a month later that he was being held incommunicado in Xinjiang thousands of kilometers away on "separatism charges."
In detention, the PEN congress resolution said, Tohti was tortured and cruelly treated with his legs shackled and denied food.
Last month, after a two-day trial, Tohti was sentenced to life imprisonment. All his property was confiscated and his family was thrown out of his house.
To symbolise Tohti's absence from the PEN congress as a result of his imprisonment, an empty chair was reserved for him in front of the delegates. Writers signed their names on his portrait sitting on the chair to express their solidarity.
Two other empty chairs were reserved for Azimjon Askarov of Kyrgyzstan and Vladimir Kozlov of Kazakhstan. Like Tohti, PEN said the two Central Asian writers had been imprisoned on what it believed were trumped-up charges for their writings against state corruption and abuses.
Tohti, according to Canadian philosopher and fictionist John Ralston Saul, president of the PEN, has opposed violence while being critical of the "increasingly heavy-handed" way in which Beijing has been dealing with the Uighur unrest over Chinese economic and cultural policies in the region.
The Uighurs are a Turkish ethnic group living in Central Asia in what historically has been referred to as East Turkestan or Uyghuristan. Their territory was annexed in 1949 by China, which set up the Uyghur Autonomous Region in the People's Republic of China.
China has encouraged its majority Han population to migrate to Uighur areas while also compelling Uighur women to leave the region and work as migrant workers elsewhere.