2014-10~12
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2014-12-08/china-sentences-eight-people-to-death-over-xinjiang-attacks/1397011

China sentences eight people to death over Xinjiang attacks | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
A court in China sentences eight people to death for two deadly attacks in the volatile, mostly Muslim, Uighur Xinjiang region that killed more than 40 people.
A court in China has sentenced eight people to death for two deadly attacks in the volatile Uighur Xinjiang region that killed more than 40 people.
Five others were given suspended death sentences, according to state broadcaster CCTV - a penalty normally commuted to life in prison - with another four jailed.
In one incident in the mostly Muslim area, assailants armed with knives and explosives attacked a train station in the regional capital Urumqi in April, killing one person and wounding 79 on the final day of a visit by Chinese president Xi Jinping. Two assailants also died.
The following month 39 people were killed, along with four attackers, and more than 90 wounded when assailants threw explosives and ploughed two vehicles through a market in Urumqi.
The sentences, handed down by the Intermediate People's Court in Urumqi, are the latest as Beijing imposes a harsh crackdown on violence in the vast resource-rich region in China's far west.
Over the past year at least 200 people have died in a series of clashes and increasingly sophisticated attacks in the region.
Rights groups have accused China's government of cultural and religious repression and said that has fuelled unrest in Xinjiang, which borders Central Asia.
China defended its policies and argued that it had boosted economic development in the area and that it upheld minority and religious rights in a country with 56 recognised ethnic groups.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.