2014-10~12
http://ca.reuters.com/article/topNews/idCAKCN0J50AI20141121

China courts put reporter on trial, reject Uighur scholar's appeal | Top News | Reuters
BEIJING (Reuters) - An outspoken Chinese journalist went on trial on Friday accused of revealing state secrets as a court rejected an appeal by a prominent Uighur scholar whose life sentence on separatism charges had sparked an outcry from the West.
The closed-door Beijing trial of Gao Yu, 70, accused of providing state secrets to foreign contacts lasted just four hours. Gao, well known for her critical articles of government leaders, faces a maximum sentence of life imprisonment if found guilty.
Gao was detained in early May and accused of having leaked an internal Chinese Communist Party document "calling for greater censorship of liberal and reformist ideas", according to New York-based Human Rights Watch. Gao's lawyers declined to confirm this, saying the evidence has been classified as state secrets.
In May, state television aired images of her making a confession. Gao's lawyer, Mo Shaoping, told Reuters before the trial that Gao was forced into making the confession because authorities had threatened her son with arrest.
Mo said the judge would deliver the verdict at a later date.
"(Gao Yu) denied the prosecution's allegations and she said she believed was innocent," Mo said.
In a detention centre in the restive northwestern region of Xinjiang, Ilham Tohti, China's most prominent advocate for the rights of Muslim Uighurs, lost his appeal against a life sentence for separatism.
President Xi Jinping's government has convicted and detained hundreds of people in what rights groups say is the most severe assault on human rights in China since the 1989 crackdown on a pro-democracy movement in and around Beijing's Tiananmen Square.
  Continued...
International Editions :

Africa  | 
 Arabic  | 
 Argentina  | 
 Brazil  | 
 Canada  | 
 China  | 
 France  | 
 Germany  | 
 India  | 
 Italy  | 
 Japan  | 
 Latin America  | 
 Mexico  | 
 Russia  | 
 Spain  | 
 United Kingdom  | 
 United States
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.