2014-10~12
http://www.therakyatpost.com/news/2014/10/05/can-illegals-sneak-country-reside-quietly-capital/

How can illegals sneak into the country and reside quietly in the capital? - The Rakyat Post - The Rakyat Post

NEXT STORY: Threat of heavier traffic spurs residents to oppose development on green lung

PREVIOUS STORY: Will Alvin Tan get away scot-free, Utusan asks authorities
DAP's Segambut Member of Parliament Lim Lip Eng says stern action must be taken by Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak’s administration against intruders especially in view of the movement of terrorists around the world.
A DAP lawmaker has called for disciplinary action to be taken against the Immigration Department following reports of 155 Uighur refugees crammed into two apartments, here.
Citing the suspension of the Malaysian Examination Syndicate’s director and deputy director over the leaked Ujian Penilaian Sekolha Rendah as an example, Lim Lip Eng suggested that the same principle be applied to the Immigration Department until the problem was rectified.
The Segambut Member of Parliament, in a statement, urged the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission to step in as they had done with the Custom’s Department which saw several officers charged for over a hundred cases.
Stern action, Lim said must be taken by Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak’s administration especially in view of the movement of  terrorists around the world.
“In a time when security forces are supposed to be vigilant, how is it that illegal immigrants sneak into the country and reside quietly in the capital?”
On Wednesday, the Immigration Department detained the Uighur refuges, who were carrying fake Turkish passports, following a tip-off.
Lim went on to suggest that maybe West Malaysia needed a system like the Eastern Sabah Security Command (Esscom), which was set up following an intrusion by Sulu terrorists in 2013, to protect the Peninsula’s borders.

PREVIOUS STORY: Will Alvin Tan get away scot-free, Utusan asks authorities

NEXT STORY: Threat of heavier traffic spurs residents to oppose development on green lung
Dalai Lama, the Tibetan spiritual leader, when asked about prayers for those who died in the Paris terrorist attack, says the world must not ask God to fix man-made problems.