2014-10~12
http://archive.indianexpress.com/news/violence-hits-west-chinas-xinjiang-ahead-of-key-anniversary/1135498/

Violence hits west China's Xinjiang ahead of key anniversary - Indian Express
Violent incidents have spread over the past week in a tense minority region of western China, just days before the fourth anniversary of a bloody clash between minority Uighurs and the ethnic Han majority that left almost 200 people dead and resulted in a major security clampdown.
China's communist authorities have labeled some of the incidents _ including one that left 35 people dead _ as terrorist attacks, and President Xi Jinping has ordered that the situation be promptly dealt with to safeguard overall social stability, state media has reported. A state-run newspaper said Saturday that authorities had beefed up security in the region. 
The latest violence reportedly took place Friday in southern Xinjiang's Hotan area. In one incident, more than 100 knife-wielding people mounted motorbikes in an attempt to storm the police station for Karakax county, the state-run Global Times reported. In another, an armed mob staged an attack in the township of Hanairike, according to the news portal of the Xinjiang regional government. It did not say what sort of weapons the mob had.
The official Xinhua News Agency reported a ``violent attack'' Friday afternoon on a pedestrian street in downtown Hotan city. No casualties were reported in any of the incidents, which state media said were quickly brought under control. The government's news portal, Tianshan Net, said there were no civilian casualties in Hanairike. An exiled Uighur activist, Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the Germany-based World Uyghur Congress, disputed those accounts, saying there were several protests in the Hotan area against what Uighurs see as China's suppressive policies in Xinjiang. He said 48 people were arrested.
``It's a crisis of survival,'' said Dilxat Raxit, who called for international observers to be sent to the region to help curb what he said was excessive violence against Uighurs by the Chinese government. It has not been possible to independently verify the different accounts of the violence because of tight controls over information in the region. 