2014-10~12
http://nazret.com/blog/index.php/2014/12/20/ethiopia-is-world-s-4th

Ethiopia is world's 4th worst jailer of the press
Ethiopia is world's 4th worst jailer of the press

Source: CPJ



The Committee to Protect Journalists identified 220 journalists in jail around the world in 2014, an increase of nine from 2013. The tally marks the second-highest number of journalists in jail since CPJ began taking an annual census of imprisoned journalists in 1990, and highlights a resurgence of authoritarian governments in countries such as China, Ethiopia, Burma, and Egypt
China’s use of anti-state charges and Iran’s revolving door policy in imprisoning reporters, bloggers, editors, and photographers earned the two countries the dubious distinction of being the world’s worst and second worst jailers of journalists, respectively. Together, China and Iran are holding a third of journalists jailed globally—despite speculation that new leaders who took the reins in each country in 2013 might implement liberal reforms.
The 44 journalists in Chinese jails are a jump from 32 the previous year, and reflect the pressure that President Xi Jinping has exerted on media, lawyers, dissidents, and academics to toe the government line. In addition to jailing journalists, Beijing has issued restrictive new rules about what can be covered and denied visas to international journalists. Coverage of ethnic minority issues continues to be sensitive; almost half of those jailed are Tibetan or Uighur, including academic and blogger Ilham Tohti and seven students imprisoned for working on his website, Uighurbiz. Twenty-nine of the journalists behind bars in China were held on anti-state charges. (Read detailed accounts of each imprisoned journalist here.)
The administration of Iranian President Hassan Rouhani has also maintained repressive measures against the press. This year, Iranian authorities were holding 30 journalists in jail, down from 35 in 2013 and a record high of 45 in 2012. CPJ’s 2014 International Press Freedom Award winner Siamak Ghaderi was released from prison in July, but that same month, Iranian authorities jailed Jason Rezaian, a Washington Post reporter. By late 2014, the government had still not disclosed the reason for Rezaian’s arrest or the nature of charges against him.
The list of the top 10 worst jailers of journalists was rounded out by Eritrea, Ethiopia, Vietnam, Syria, Egypt, Burma, Azerbaijan, and Turkey. The prison census accounts only for journalists in government custody and does not include those in the captivity of nonstate groups. For example, CPJ estimates that approximately 20 journalists are missing in Syria, many of whom are believed held by the militant group Islamic State.
Turkey, which was the world’s worst jailer in 2012 and 2013, released dozens of journalists this year, bringing to seven the number of journalists behind bars on the date of CPJ’s census. However, on December 14, Turkey detained several more journalists—along with television producers, scriptwriters, and police officers—and accused them of conspiring against the Turkish state, according to news reports. The detentions were born of a political struggle between President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and the ruling party and the movement led by U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gülen, and included the editor-in-chief of one of Turkey's largest dailies, Zaman, which is aligned with Gülen.
In Eritrea, which has consistently ranked among the world’s worst jailers and is ranked third this year, authorities are holding 23 journalists, all without charge, and have refused to disclose the prisoners’ health or whereabouts. In 2014, CPJ conducted a fresh investigation into the status of long-held prisoners in the extremely repressive country; the probe led to the addition or removal of a handful of cases but yielded little information about many of those long jailed.
A state crackdown on independent publications and bloggers in Ethiopia this year more than doubled the number of journalists imprisoned to 17 from seven the previous year, and prompted several journalists to flee into exile, according to CPJ research.
For the first time since 2011, Burma had journalists in jail on the date of CPJ’s census: at least 10 were imprisoned, all on anti-state charges. In July, five staff members of the Unity weekly news journal were sentenced to 10 years in prison each under the 1923 Official Secrets Act. Rather than reforming draconian and outdated security laws, President Thein Sein’s government is using the laws to imprison journalists.
In Azerbaijan, authorities were jailing nine journalists, up one from the previous year. Amid a crackdown on traditional media, some activists took to social networking sites in an attempt to give the public an alternative to state media. CPJ’s list does not include at least four activists imprisoned in Azerbaijan this year for creating and managing Facebook groups on which they and others posted a mix of commentary and news articles about human rights abuses and allegations of widespread corruption.
Egypt more than doubled its number of journalists behind bars to at least 12, including three journalists from the international network Al-Jazeera.
In recent years, journalist jailings in the Americas have become increasingly rare, with one documented in each 2012 and 2013. This year, the region has two: a Cuban blogger was sentenced to five years in prison in retaliation for his critical blog, and in Mexico, an independent journalist and activist for Mayan causes has been charged with sedition.
Other trends and details that emerged in CPJ’s research include:
The 220 journalists jailed around the world compares with the 211 CPJ documented behind bars in 2013. The 2014 tally ranks the second highest behind 2012, when CPJ documented 232 journalists jailed in relation to their work.
 Worldwide, 132 journalists, or 60 percent, were jailed on anti-state charges such as subversion or terrorism­. That is far higher than any other type of charge, such as defamation or insult, but roughly in line with the proportion of anti-state charges in previous years.
 Twenty percent, or 45, of the journalists imprisoned globally were being held with no charge disclosed.
 Online journalists accounted for more than half, or 119, of the imprisoned journalists. Eighty-three worked in print, 15 in radio, and 14 in television.
 Roughly one-third, or 67, of the journalists in jail around the world were freelancers, around the same proportion as in 2013.
 The number of prisoners rose in Eritrea, Ethiopia, China, Bangladesh, Thailand, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Egypt, Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories, and Saudi Arabia.
 Countries that appeared on the 2014 prison census after jailing no journalists in the 2013 survey were Cameroon, Swaziland, Mexico, Cuba, Burma, and Belarus.
CPJ defines journalists as people who cover the news or comment on public affairs in media, including print, photographs, radio, television, and online. In its annual prison census, CPJ includes only those journalists who it has confirmed have been imprisoned in relation to their work.
CPJ believes that journalists should not be imprisoned for doing their jobs. The organization has sent letters expressing its serious concerns to each country that has imprisoned a journalist. In the past year, CPJ advocacy led to the early release of at least 41 imprisoned journalists worldwide.
CPJ’s list is a snapshot of those incarcerated at 12:01 a.m. on December 1, 2014. It does not include the many journalists imprisoned and released throughout the year; accounts of those cases can be found at www.cpj.org. Journalists remain on CPJ’s list until the organization determines with reasonable certainty that they have been released or have died in custody.
Journalists who either disappear or are abducted by nonstate entities such as criminal gangs or militant groups are not included on the prison census. Their cases are classified as “missing” or “abducted.”
Shazdeh Omari is CPJ's news editor. She was the former copy chief for The Village Voice and has worked as a reporter and editor in the United States and Greece.
There is a difference between a journalist and diaspora political operatives. Journalists should not be imprisoned for exercising there first amendment under the constitution. Political hooligans who operate within and outside the country are traitors. These traitors are not journalists and should face consequences for disrupting peace, breaking the law under the Ethiopian constitution. Ethiopia DOES not jail journalists. Ethiopia respects those who honor the constitution and the rule of law.
Nobody should be surprised about the lowly Tigres would do these kind of things to the real Ethiopians. The crimes they have committed so brutal ( take the 97 massacre ) . They give up power, they know they will pay dearly. Hell , the cowards know the real Ethiopians will never forgive . The Ethiopians have said enough is enough!!!! We forgave your Banda fathers , but not anymore .
Bandas ,Fool Diasporas ,Opportunist Le Hode Aders , Hypocrit Western Diplomats
call Agazi Bandits State Of Terror : Lematawi Mengist , Rule Of Law ,Regional Ally on the Fight against International Terrorism .Baseless ,Useless Bla ,Blas .
SHAME SHAME SHAME !!!!!!!!!!!!!
As many of the negative anti ethiopian govt commenters might think . My view on this issue may surprise you . But I dont give a shit if u got it or not . The jailing of Skinner nega is unfair I have to say .as I know He is in no way involved in terrorism , he was ac true journalist who cares for his country . He is a greencard holder who came to ethiopia to help . He could have chosen to live in USA & bark like those illiterate d iasporas who day & night scream hate on this site . I think he should be freed & reunited with his family . As for the other prisoners I am not sure if they are guilty or not . But im sure some of them need to be locked up for good 
 . We will go forward with EPRDF & ethiopia will be on top once again . God bless Ethiopia .
That is true. What about the status of Ethiopia regarding food security, well being and health of the citizens, unemployment, literacy, availability of potable water, energy consumption, internet service, # of orphan and street children,# of jails and police service men, # of citizens killed on the streets by the government forces, # of corrupted political parties and government higher officials, # of citizens migrate to foreign countries, # of good for nothing ethnic political parties,# of uneducated and untrained military service men generals, # of economic activities handled by political party and their extended family members, # of security service men / women who followed up the daily routines of their citizens, # of poor people who do not have nothing the daily basics to survive, # of Whisky bottles consumed by Woyane officials and their puppets, # of political prostitue who sell their butt to their empty head and አጎዛዎች bose ……etc
CPJ seems to understand a little better about journalists who need attention all over the world. Especially the worst situation in that huge prison called Eritrea has to be addressed in priority. We never know if those prisoners are dead or alive. It has been almost two decades since anyone seen anything in that closed dark land.
In Ethiopia even terrorists are given a chance to present their cases in a court of law with any lawyer of their choices.
Most of the so-called journalists in prison in Ethiopia have nothing to do with journalism, rather these are advocates of the past regimes and angry about the current regime’s success. They’re only hate mongering losers. All these so-called journalists and the spoiled brat bloggers were caught inciting and instigating violence. Some even talk about how to create an Arab spring style chaos and unrest.
Yes, you are 100% correct. They are advocating hate in the name of journalism.
Adgi ,no use to past your bandit bosses Stupid Bla Blas .Afterall CPJ and HRW 
reports on Human Rights Violation have become your daily “NIGHTMARE” .By the way this link is for you and your bandit bosses how your Stupid Law ,inspiring Kenyan Despots ,have recently been received by the MPs . https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D-f5V1zLuHg
This is how patriotic MPs are resisting the government atempt to pass a restrictive law
against the Freedom of Speech and Democratic Rights . But not like in your Fake Parliement ,stupid so called representatifs clapping their hands like chimps for a law they have never read a single line .By the way Alemlamawit ,keep on your tears of Crocodile for yourself .
teddy the idiot
during your master hailesselassie and your hero mengistu there were no prisinores just dead journalists. yes the current government throws some so called journalists to jail but not because they are journalists but for being the mouthpiece of terrorists and anti ethiopia forces. rest assured this practice will continue as long as people like you exist..
Dengayu ,so for you your bandit bosses ,the Tigre Mafiosis and bandas are
advocating “LOVE” in the name of “Tribalism” and the supremacy of “Tigre Power” ….LOL !!!!
KEFFO FANDYA BANDA !!!!
BECHEGER;messengers are called journalists. The printer,ink and paper that is bought by hard currency of all the people should not be used by these goats whose ’shoulder swollen whose heart swollen and demand a duel with a Tiger’ IT IS NO USEGOING TO THE GOAT’S HOME TO LOOK FOR WOOL.
The only way to have permanent and an- interrupted progress will be achieved only by restoring Democratic system and fair justice for all. The people are the only force to bring change by united power and strategic protest up to arm struggle when necessary. This requires strong leadership with well sort out and realistic revolutionary manual to create an institution all Ethiopians can trust and pay the maximum dedication for the sake of our mother land and generation to come.
AZ you nailed it on the head, these hate and war mongers as they were called by Mr. Cohen, are preaching war in the name of journalism. By the way none of them have no education of journalism.
Teddy, yezebegnachin yeMola wendim also claims that he is a journalist because, he has opened a Radio station and talk with his fellow cab drivers on Saturdays. Eskinder Nega has no Education except that, the only thing he was educated was hate. This. Him and his wife was factory of lies. She was transmitting one time for ASRAT Dimts and Elias Kiflom false information. Last time when her husband was prisoned she released by GIGI name poem for her husband on YOU TUBE. GIGI even doesn’t know who he is. JOURNALISM HAS ETHICS. THE ABSENCE OF ETHICAL ISSUES IN THEIR WRITING AND COLLABORATING WITH TERRORISTS WAS THE REASON WHICH SEND THEM TO PRISON.
Bezew Bozenew ,what I really like of you that you have never denied of being an Agazi Village Idiot Ass Hole…LOL !!! So for you ETV sell out banda journalists ,Adgi Forum and Bandalandonline"s like your boy Friend Pig Ben and co ,the Agazi Amiche Revisonist Mimi Sebatawa ,Pig Ben ,Hipo Sele ,and the new recycled banda Fake reporter selling with the name of his brother in Law Tilahun Gessesse ,have the Ethics of Journalism .Daily denying the naked ,sad Truth of the country.
Whorshiping days and nights your bandit bosses as “Almighty God ” .Mind you not a single line or just a link ,on the dramatic accident on Yemenese Coast where 70 of our brothers and sisters lost their lives . For your Information is from the Cabies drivers and parking lots moneys remitances that the country is surviving not from your bandit Fake Double Digit Economic Growth …LOL !!!
FANDYA BUTCHELLA BANDA !!!!!
This section can only be displayed by javascript enabled browsers.
«_ethiopian airlines_» adoption agriculture airline airlines athletics aviation business caf china «commodity exchange» crime diaspora drought dv economy ecx energy eritrea «ethiopian airlines» famine fashion football health hydroelectric ict immigration investment islam manufacturing media «meles zenawi» migration mobile muslim nile olympics phone politics power press rail railway religion soccer sport style technology telecom wikileaks

 © 1994- 2016 nazret.com • 
 Contact • Help • 
 b2evolution skin by François
