2014-10~12
http://freepressjournal.in/china-accuses-american-hand-behind-hong-kong-protests/

China accuses American hand behind Hong Kong protests | Freepress Journal
Beijing : Accusing the US of “manipulating” the pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong, China today claimed that an American official, who was linked to the Tibetan and Xinjiang’s separatist movements, met with key protest leaders.
 “Louisa Greve, a director of the National Endowment for Democracy of the US (NED), was already meeting with the key people from ‘Occupy Central’ several months ago, to talk about the movement,” a commentary in the ruling Communist Party of China’s flagship newspaper, the People’s Daily online, said, citing media reports.
 Greve, the Vice President of NED, is responsible for its Asia, Middle East and North Africa programmes.
 “For many years, her name has frequently appeared on reports about ‘Tibetan independence’, ‘Eastern Turkestan’, ‘democracy movement’ and other forces destabilising Chinese affairs and interfering with the Chinese government,” it said alleging an American hand in Hong Kong protests. Greve also hosted or participated in conferences about the “Arab spring” and the “Colour Revolutions” of other regions, it said.
“It is hardly likely that the US will admit to manipulating the ‘Occupy Central’ movement, just as it will not admit to manipulating other anti-China forces,” it said.
The commentary further said that US justifies such activities under the garb of “democracy”, “freedom”, “human rights” and “other values”.

Next Article »
1 held after 3 men open fire at cops in Connaught Place 



 
 
 
 Unless there is some hidden design behind it, the two-day deliberations of the BJP’s national executive meeting underlined a twin-track… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 Maybe it’s a problem of existing in our own ‘safety zones’—used these days as a synonym for ideological bubble. Maybe… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 If some medicines are found ‘harmful’ or even useless to consumers, the government or the apex drug regulator is within… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 Dr. Sanjay Deshmukh, vice chancellor of Mumbai University, speaks of the many paradigm shifts that are now needed. Shraddha Kamdar… 

 Read more…  




 
 
 
 A couple of years ago, we had published an article that essentially reproducted an email sent to us by valued… 

 Read more…  


Copyright © 2016 . All Rights Reserved. Maintained by Designwell Infotech