2014-10~12
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/once-tourist-draw-restive-xinjiang-suffers-after-unrest

Once a tourist draw, restive Xinjiang suffers after unrest | TODAYonline
KANAS LAKE (China) — This year, after a stream of news reports of rioting, terrorist attacks and deadly police shootings linked to ethnic conflict in towns across the western region of Xinjiang, tourism has plummeted, the first drop in 20 years.
Xinjiang, the size of Western Europe, has long been considered one of China’s most exotic destinations. Chinese tourists, usually travelling in tour groups, visit the grasslands and Siberian forests in the north and desert oasis towns in the south, along the old Silk Road.
Among the locals, an estimated 1.5 million people have some tie to Xinjiang’s tourism economy and many were hoping for a big surge in visitor numbers during the National Day holiday week in China, which began on Wednesday.
But given reports late last month of dozens killed in clashes, there is little expectation that the numbers will match those of previous years.
A report on an official Xinjiang news website on Sept 25 said multiple explosions days earlier in Luntai County had killed two people and wounded many others.
The website later reported that 40 rioters had died, while six civilians and four police officers and auxiliary employees were killed. It was the deadliest burst of violence in Xinjiang in weeks, but was not atypical.
In the first half of this year, visits from domestic tourists dropped 7 per cent, to 20 million, compared with the same period last year, official statistics showed. The revenue from domestic tourists fell nearly 6 per cent to US$3.5 billion (S$4.49 billion).
Foreign tourism, which is a fraction of the total, also dropped by nearly 1 per cent to 619,300, with revenue falling 1 per cent to US$161 million. The Xinjiang Regional Tourism Bureau blames influences from recent terrorist attacks for the downturn.
In early August, several Chinese-language news websites published an open letter by 400,000 people directly employed in Xinjiang tourism deploring the “great harm” done to the Xinjiang tourism industry by “violent terrorism attacks”.
On online travel forums, the question “Is it safe to travel in Xinjiang?” is common. On one forum, people wrote that it was better to go to northern Xinjiang, where there are fewer Uighurs, a minority ethnic group, whose clashes with the Han majority account for much of the violence. Violence in Urumqi, the regional capital, and in the south has been greater.