2014-10~12
http://www.scmp.com/news/china-insider/article/1615903/london-cabs-ply-shanghai-streets-traditional-medicine-put-test

'London' cabs ply Shanghai streets; Traditional medicine put to test | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Water to more than 4,000 students and staff at Fujian University of Technology in Fuzhou was cut off for three days after a main pipe broke at a nearby building site, Strait City Daily reports. About 500 tonnes of water in an emergency tank was also quickly used up. Some students went to a nearby mountain to fetch spring water, lining up for about an hour to collect it. Water supplies have now been restored.
A 16-year-old boy in Zhaoan county near Zhangzhou turned himself in to the police after three days on the run for stabbing a neighbour to death, the news website Chinanews.com reports. He also set fire to her home in an attempt to destroy evidence of the killing. He told police he had argued with the victim, who lived on the same floor as his rented flat, according to the report.
Six guards died while trying to put out a forest fire in Mei county near Meizhou on Friday, the Southern Metropolis News reports. Two of their colleagues were also injured. The cause of the blaze is under investigation.
Shenzhen police are investigating the death of a 26-year-old detainee who died after drinking a bottle of pesticide in the toilet of a community police station, the Southern Metropolis News reports. His parents are suing the authority for 1.2 million yuan (HK$1.5 million), saying the officers should have ensured the safety of the man who was in custody for theft.
Four store owners in a commercial street in Qichun county near Huanggang had some of their stock taken by street cleaners after they refused to pay a rubbish collection charge, Chutian Metropolis Daily reports. The shop owners said they should not have to pay a fee because their landlords already charged them a property management fee. The local authority said it would keep the shops' goods until they paid up, the report said.
Two women have been arrested by the police in Wuhan for allegedly stealing from student dormitories at Hubei University, the Wuhan Evening News reports. Six laptops and a mobile phone were seized by the police. The women, aged 33 and 38, are both pregnant and were released on bail.
Higher food and labour costs and the government's crackdown on extravagant spending by officials have led to a slump in takings at the province's restaurants, Nanjing Daily reports. Larger restaurants took 39.4 billion yuan in revenue last year, a fall of 7.3 per cent. The report said 30 per cent of the businesses failed to make a profit and 10 per cent had closed. The figures were for restaurants that normally earn revenue of at least 2 million yuan a year, according to the report.
The province's civil affairs department has taken bids for NGOs to run 120 community-based projects providing services to elderly people, the disabled and juveniles, the news website Jschina.com.cn reports. Nearly 240 grass-roots organisations took part in the bidding and the authorities plan to spend 10 million yuan funding the projects. There are about 24,000 community-based non-government organisations in the province, according to the report.
About 100 cinemas in the city will offer cheaper tickets to the elderly this week to encourage more of them to watch films, the Wen Hui Bao reports. The most expensive ticket will cost 35 yuan. An official at the Shanghai Film Distribution and Exhibition Association said the normal cost of a ticket, up to 120 yuan, was too expensive for most elderly people.
The first batch of London-style taxis has started operating in the city, the news website Eastday.com reports. The authorities announced last month that the taxis would be introduced. About 50 are now plying their trade on the streets. Another 150 will follow.
Anti-corruption investigators in Nanchong have denied a rumour circulating on the internet that a senior official at an urban management bureau had his sister on the payroll even though she did not work at the department, Chengdu Economic Daily reports. Investigators said the woman was properly employed and working at the office. The official has complained that he has been libelled.
A traditional Chinese medicine doctor in Chengdu is to take a challenge set by a doctor at the Beijing Jishuitan Hospital who questions the credibility of traditional medicine, West China City Daily reports. Ning Fanggang, a doctor from the Beijing hospital's burns department, has challenged traditional Chinese doctors to predict whether a woman is pregnant or not by only taking her pulse. More than 30 young women will take part. Ning said the doctors would be awarded 50,000 yuan if they could correctly determine whether or not at least 80 per cent of the women were pregnant. The Chengdu doctor, who has been practicing traditional Chinese medicine for 22 years, said he was confident of winning.
People in Urumqi have complained that more than half of the 80 central heating service hotlines in the city are never answered, or are invalid or wrong numbers, Xinjiang Metropolis Daily reports. The city government started to provide heat to homes on Friday and set up the hotlines to take calls about the service. Residents also said some staff taking calls were rude and unhelpful.
A ram raised by a farmer in Urumqi has breasts and can produce milk, the news website Iyaxin.com reports. The sheep is eight months old and a scientist at the Xinjiang Academy of Animal Science said it probably had a genetic disorder. The scientist said the sheep's real gender could be identified by carrying out a DNA test.
Ningbo is trying to attract more educated residents to live in the city by offering subsidies to homebuyers if people can prove they graduated from university within the past 10 years, China Youth Daily reports. The government is offering 1 per cent of the value of a property. People with doctoral degrees can get a grant of 3,000 yuan a month to help pay their mortgage. Estate agents said the policy was unlikely to stimulate the market.
A man in his 40s from Wenzhou has been arrested for attempted murder after he hit his father and allegedly forced him to drink pesticide, the Today Morning Express reports. The elderly man was rescued by his neighbours who heard the pair arguing. The son has a criminal record.