2014-10~12
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/228416887

China's Jailing of Uyghur Dissident's Students 'Unacceptable': Exile Group - China National News
China's sentencing of seven students of Uyghur dissident and former professor Ilham Tohti on separatism charges is "unacceptable," an exile group said after the students were handed jail terms of between three and eight years.
The students were identified as Mutellip Imin, Atikem Rozi, Perhat Halmurat, Abduqeyum Ablimit, Shohret Nijat, Akbar Imin, and Luo Yuwei, with Luo the only member of the group not belonging to the mostly Muslim Uyghur ethnic minority.
"They were sentenced to jail terms of three to eight years," Tohti's defense lawyer Li Fangping confirmed to RFA after the sentences were passed following a one-day trial on Nov. 25 at the Intermediate People's Court in Xinjiang's regional capital, Urumqi.
Tohti, a former professor at the Central University for Nationalities in Beijing, was sentenced to life in prison, along with deprivation of political rights and confiscation of all his assets, by the same court on Sept. 23.
He has repeatedly denied the charge and says the cases against him and his students are politically motivated. But the Urumqi High People's Court rejected Tohti's appeal against his sentence last month.
The court found that the students' "separatist" activities alongside Tohti amounted in themselves to separatism, Beijing-based rights lawyer Liu Xiaoyuan said via Twitter.
"The judgment and sentencing of these ... students is unacceptable," Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the Munich-based World Uyghur Congress (WUC), told RFA.
"They were sacrificed to the Ilham Tohti case, because then the authorities could use them as evidence for Ilham Tohti's [allegedly] criminal activities," Raxit said.
The students' involvement in allegedly separatist activities was largely based on their work for Tohti's website, Uighur Online, or www.uighurbiz.net, official media reported.
According to prosecutors in Tohti's own trial, he had "bewitched and coerced young ethnic minority students to work for the website and built a criminal syndicate."
Tohti, 45, had organized this group to write, edit, translate, and reprint articles seeking Xinjiang's separation from China, the judgment said.
The website included articles critical of the ruling Chinese Communist Party's policies targeting Uyghurs in Xinjiang, including systematic religious controls, the enforcement of Chinese-language education in the schools, and lack of economic opportunity.
These criticisms were used by prosecutors in Tohti's case as evidence that he had incited people to separatism and undermined "national unity," lawyers said at the time.
But Tohti's defense statement said he had "relied only on pen and paper to diplomatically request" human rights and legal rights for Uyghurs.
Prosecutors also made use of statements by his students in Tohti's trial, which he rejected as having been drawn from them under extreme duress.
New York-based Hu Ping, editor of the Chinese-language monthly , agreed that the seven students were integral to the prosecution case against Tohti himself.
"Ilham Tohti was arrested on the basis, among other things, of his relationship with his students and the things he said in class," Hu said.
He said Tohti had never called for independence for Xinjiang either verbally or in his articles.
"The heavy sentence handed to Ilham Tohti shows that the authorities are stepping up the pressure on ideological freedom within universities," Hu said.
A China-based online writer who asked to be identified only as Liu said Tohti's view of the history of Xinjiang and the Uyghur people had long been at odds with the official Communist Party line.
But he added: "Tohti is a very moderate Uyghur intellectual, and his views on Xinjiang issues are based on the fact that the clauses in the constitution relating to ethnic minorities haven't been implemented there."
"China may be researching ethnic minority policy at the moment, but it continues to uphold the old policies of economic appeasement and political suppression," Liu said.
"That's why Tohti had to get the sentence he did."
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Kunshan (China), March 21 (IANS) India were placed in a relatively easy group in the women's section but the men's team did not prove to be as lucky at the draw for the prestigious Thomas and Uber Cup Finals badminton tournament that was held here on Monday.
In the men's section -- the Thomas Cup -- the Indian team have been drawn along with 13-times winners Indonesia and strong contenders Thailand and Hong Kong China in Group B.
The women's team have been placed in Group D of the Uber Cup alongside Japan -- the runners-up in the last edition in 2014 -- Australia and Germany.
The tournament will be held here in Kunshan from May 15-22.
Meanwhile, Thomas Cup defending champions Japan and top seeds China found themselves in the same group as the draw. The two powerhouses were drawn in Group A alongside France and Mexico, ensuring that the starting stage of the finals itself should be an intensely competitive affair.
Second seeds Denmark, in Group D, were drawn along with Chinese Taipei, New Zealand and South Africa while Group C has South Korea, Malaysia, England and Germany.
In the Uber Cup competition, hosts and defending champions China will have to contend with European power Denmark in Group A. Their group-mates are Spain and Malaysia.
Group B consists of Korea, Chinese Taipei, Mauritius and USA, while Group C has Thailand, Indonesia, Bulgaria and Hong Kong China.
Sixteen teams each in the Thomas Cup and Uber Cup qualified for the final rounds based on their performance in the continental team championships and team rankings. The No.1 and No.2 seeded teams were separated in the draw by placing them at the top of Group A and Group D respectively. The other teams and corresponding group positions were then picked by the invited dignitaries.
The top two teams in each group will make it to the knockout stages. There will be another draw for the quarter-finals.

UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved