2014-10~12
http://mashable.com/2015/11/24/china-xinjiang-messaging-whatsapp/

China stops Xinjiang users who download foreign messaging apps
China's Xinjiang region — home to its largest community of Muslims — is reportedly shutting down the phone services of people who use foreign messaging apps like WhatsApp.
A New York Times report says several people in Xinjiang said they received text messages from their phone companies saying that their service would be cut off, and that they had to go to a police station to restore it.
See also: Stop with the Kim Jong-un jokes, China commands (and it's not joking)
Upon calling the police, one of the people interviewed was told that her service was cut off because she had downloaded foreign messaging services, and had used virtual private network (VPN) software to bypass China's web filters that cut off access to banned sites. Google and its services like Gmail and Google Maps, for example, are banned in China, so people keen on accessing them need to use VPN software.
Where China's government is able to monitor texts exchanged on its homegrown and most popular messenger, WeChat, foreign services like Facebook Messenger and Line are blocked there, in part because they aren't able to be monitored as easily.
But WhatsApp isn't blocked in China, so cracking down on it in Xinjiang appears to be directly aimed at the Muslims there, who have been locked in tension with the government for years. And while direct intervention from the police appears to be new, Xinjiang's users have been complaining about being blocked from WhatsApp for a while, already.
In May this year, a Weibo user visiting Xinjiang complained [link in Chinese] that she wasn't able to access WhatApp.
Another user said in August [link in Chinese] that she wasn't able to access WhatsApp.
Xinjiang is the only region in China where the Muslim Uyghurs make up the majority of the population, at about 45%. In 2010, it was estimated that about 13.4 million of the 22 million that live in its capital, Urumqi, were Muslim.
After a spate of attacks in Xinjiang last year, which the government labeled as acts of terrorism, legislators went ahead to ban burqa wearing in the territory.
In August this year, a group of women wearing burqas were arrested in the Henan province, although it was unclear if they were charged, since burqas are not outlawed in Henan.
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.