2014-10~12
http://www.chinanationalnews.com/index.php/sid/228711813

China is world's worst jailer of the press; global tally second worst on record - China National News
This statement was originally published on cpj.org on 17 December 2014.
The Committee to Protect Journalists identified 220 journalists in jail around the world in 2014, an increase of nine from 2013. The tally marks the second-highest number of journalists in jail since CPJ began taking an annual census of imprisoned journalists in 1990, and highlights a resurgence of authoritarian governments in countries such as China, Ethiopia, Burma, and Egypt.
China's use of anti-state charges and Iran's revolving door policy in imprisoning reporters, bloggers, editors, and photographers earned the two countries the dubious distinction of being the world's worst and second worst jailers of journalists, respectively. Together, China and Iran are holding a third of journalists jailed globally - despite speculation that new leaders who took the reins in each country in 2013 might implement liberal reforms.
The 44 journalists in Chinese jails are a jump from 32 the previous year, and reflect the pressure that President Xi Jinping has exerted on media, lawyers, dissidents, and academics to toe the government line. In addition to jailing journalists, Beijing has issued restrictive new rules about what can be covered and denied visas to international journalists. Coverage of ethnic minority issues continues to be sensitive; almost half of those jailed are Tibetan or Uighur, including academic and blogger Ilham Tohti and seven students imprisoned for working on his website, Uighurbiz. Twenty-nine of the journalists behind bars in China were held on anti-state charges. (Read detailed accounts of each imprisoned journalist.)
CPJ The administration of Iranian President Hassan Rouhani has also maintained repressive measures against the press. This year, Iranian authorities were holding 30 journalists in jail, down from 35 in 2013 and a record high of 45 in 2012. CPJ's 2014 International Press Freedom Award winner Siamak Ghaderi was released from prison in July, but that same month, Iranian authorities jailed Jason Rezaian, a Washington Post reporter. By late 2014, the government had still not disclosed the reason for Rezaian's arrest or the nature of charges against him.
The list of the top 10 worst jailers of journalists was rounded out by Eritrea, Ethiopia, Vietnam, Syria, Egypt, Burma, Azerbaijan, and Turkey. The prison census accounts only for journalists in government custody and does not include those in the captivity of nonstate groups. For example, CPJ estimates that approximately 20 journalists are missing in Syria, many of whom are believed held by the militant group Islamic State.
Kunshan (China), March 21 (IANS) India were placed in a relatively easy group in the women's section but the men's team did not prove to be as lucky at the draw for the prestigious Thomas and Uber Cup Finals badminton tournament that was held here on Monday.
In the men's section -- the Thomas Cup -- the Indian team have been drawn along with 13-times winners Indonesia and strong contenders Thailand and Hong Kong China in Group B.
The women's team have been placed in Group D of the Uber Cup alongside Japan -- the runners-up in the last edition in 2014 -- Australia and Germany.
The tournament will be held here in Kunshan from May 15-22.
Meanwhile, Thomas Cup defending champions Japan and top seeds China found themselves in the same group as the draw. The two powerhouses were drawn in Group A alongside France and Mexico, ensuring that the starting stage of the finals itself should be an intensely competitive affair.
Second seeds Denmark, in Group D, were drawn along with Chinese Taipei, New Zealand and South Africa while Group C has South Korea, Malaysia, England and Germany.
In the Uber Cup competition, hosts and defending champions China will have to contend with European power Denmark in Group A. Their group-mates are Spain and Malaysia.
Group B consists of Korea, Chinese Taipei, Mauritius and USA, while Group C has Thailand, Indonesia, Bulgaria and Hong Kong China.
Sixteen teams each in the Thomas Cup and Uber Cup qualified for the final rounds based on their performance in the continental team championships and team rankings. The No.1 and No.2 seeded teams were separated in the draw by placing them at the top of Group A and Group D respectively. The other teams and corresponding group positions were then picked by the invited dignitaries.
The top two teams in each group will make it to the knockout stages. There will be another draw for the quarter-finals.

UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at ...
Get the latest China National News headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 China National News - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved