2014-10~12
http://www.traveldailymedia.com/216343/radisson-blu-brings-luxury-to-chinas-wild-west/

Radisson Blu brings modern hospitality to China’s Wild West | Travel Daily Asia
Airport Authority Hong Kong (AA) announced that Hong Kong International Airport (HKIA) handled 64.7 million…
This week, Travel Daily chats with Gabriel Escarrer, vice chairman & CEO of Meliá Hotels International,…
This week, Travel Daily Asia chats with Adrian Ee, the newly-appointed general manager of the Marriott…
The energy of Bangkok’s Sukhumvit area is infectious, attracting tourists looking to explore the rich…
Pattaya is well renowned for its ability to blend natural beauty with buzzing nightlife, shopping and…
Carlson Rezidor has opened a new luxury Radisson Blu in the historic city of Kashgar, in the restive Xinjiang region of western China.
The new Radisson Blu Kashgar is a modern high-rise hotel, located 20 minutes’ drive from Kashgar Airport and 10 minutes from the city’s Grand Bazaar.
It features 261 contemporary rooms and suites, with all guests offered brand standard services like free Wi-Fi, three-hour express laundry and late check-out. The hotel also features two restaurants, including one serving traditional Uighur cuisine, a lobby lounge, a 24-hour gym, indoor swimming pool, and 1,700m² of meetings space, including the 480-pax Tianshan Grand Ballroom.
“Radisson Blu Kashgar is the city’s first upper upscale international hotel and will appeal to foreign and domestic travellers looking for a hotel experience that can be trusted, that also enables them to appreciate the local culture,” said Johann F Angerbauer, general manager of the Radisson Blu Kashgar.
A key stop on the ancient Silk Road, Kashgar is located in the far west of Xinjiang – China’s westernmost region – close to the borders with Central Asia, Pakistan and Afghanistan. The city has a strong Islamic culture and heritage.
Radisson Blu Kashgar joins the brand’s existing portfolio of hotels in China, covering such destinations as Beijing, Chongqing, Guangxi, Shanghai, Tianjin and Wuxi.