2014-10~12
http://www.saltlakecitysun.com/index.php/sid/228228217

China's Constitution 'Useless' Without Enforcement: Lawyers - Salt Lake City Sun
Dozens of prominent rights lawyers have signed an open letter calling on the ruling Chinese Communist Party to uphold the rights and freedoms enshrined in the country's constitution, activists said this week.
The letter had garnered more than 100 signatures, more than 60 of them members of China's embattled legal profession, its author told RFA ahead of China's first-ever National Constitution Day on Thursday.
"We wish to see our constitution taken seriously, and protection for human rights and the right of citizens to go about their business in peace to be taken seriously," the letter, penned by rights lawyer Wang Quanping, said.
"This should be the Chinese dream," it said, in a reference to President Xi Jinping's slogan for the country's future.
But it said simply setting aside a day in the calendar to honor the idea of the constitution isn't enough.
"If there is no system to oversee its implementation, and those who are in breach of the constitution aren't investigated and brought to justice, then the constitution will remain outside the legal system," the letter said.
"In such circumstances, the constitution is just a piece of paper filled with empty words, and the Chinese dream becomes the Chinese nightmare," it said.
"The authority of the constitution is turned to waste paper."
Wang said the letter was signed by a broad cross-section of Chinese society.
"There people from as far away as Xinjiang, there are teachers, drivers, waiting staff and barkeeps, university students and office workers," he told RFA. "It's really very broad."
According to Wang, China's civil servants and Communist Party members are becoming more serious about the importance of the constitution.
"Nowadays, Chinese civil servants must take an oath to uphold the constitution, which is a very good thing," Wang said. "But I think this is still rather symbolic."
"People won't really respect the constitution, and it won't really have any authority, until the government actively pursues constitutional rule," he said.
"There are far too many instances of actions that are in breach of the constitution; far too many to count," he said.
He called on China's National People's Congress (NPC) to play an active role in enforcing the principles of free speech and human rights enshrined in the 1980 document.
"Without investigations into those who breach it, the constitution is useless," Wang said.
In Beijing on Thursday, several hundred people with long-running complaints against the ruling Chinese Communist Party were detained after they staged a protest outside the headquarters of state-run broadcaster CCTV, Shanghai-based activist Zhu Jindi said from within the unofficial Jiujingzhuang detention center on the outskirts of Beijing.
"We're in Jiujingzhuang right now; they brought us all here, one bus at a time," Zhu said. "There were 800 people here today, all from Shanghai alone."
"They took my ID card away, and then they started calling our names, one by one, to go in."
She said the protest was timed to coincide with National Constitution Day.
"But as soon as we got out of the subway, the police surrounded and stopped us, and forced us to get on the buses," Zhu said. "China has no rule of law, but we had to come out...if we hadn't, we would be even less likely to get a result."
Earlier this week, two activists in Shanghai unfurled banners in the city's People's Park calling on the government to uphold Article 35 of the constitution.
But petitioner and rights activist Chen Jianfang said she and fellow activist Sun Hongqin were "roughly handled" by four or five police officers, when they were thrown into a police vehicle.
"They used brute force, and one policeman...grabbed me by my hair, and banged my head against something, and bashed my head with his fist," Chen told RFA.
They asked us: "Do you have any qualifications to be talking about the law like that?"
Article 35 states that Chinese citizens enjoy the freedoms of expression, publication, association, movement and protest.
Sun said they were held in a local police station for three hours on Wednesday before being released.
"I had unfurled a banner, and Chen Jianfang took a photo," she said. "They snatched away two banners that I had in my purse."
Eyewitness Tan Lanying said the police had handled the petitioners "with violence."
"As soon as Chen Jianfang took her photo, the police rushed in like mad dogs and snatched their stuff away, and several of them dragged her away and beat her," Tan said.
"There is no guarantee for the personal safety of ordinary people; it's terrible to beat people up just for putting up a banner," she said.
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
WASHINGTON - This Tuesday, March 22, when Republicans in Utah caucus to nominate a candidate for U.S. President, many of them won't actually be in Utah. In fact, some won't even be in North America. That's because for the first time ever in the United States, a state party will allow voting via the Internet.
Members of the Utah Republican party who either can't make it to a caucus site, or simply choose to participate via the Internet, will be able to cast their ballot by registering online at the party's website. Once registered, online voters will have all day - from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. MDT - to select which candidate they want to be this year's Republican presidential nominee.
"I think it's going to be great," Utah Republican Chairman James Evans recently told the Deseret News during a demonstration of how the online voting will work. "There's not a reason for anyone not to participate." (Utah's Democratic state party is not allowing online voting this cycle.)
The idea of voting for national office may strike some Americans as new and untested, but in fact a large number of jurisdictions around the world have already moved parts of their electoral process onto the Internet.
The firm selected to coordinate this first-of-its-kind vote in the U.S. is Smartmatic, an international operation based in Britain with experience in online voting. Since its founding in 2001, Smartmatic says its technology has been employed at national level elections in Uganda, Estonia, the Philippines, Brazil and Belgium, among others.
"If you think about the criticality of the democratic process, I don't think there's another transaction as a citizen I take that has that level of significance and importance as voting in an election," says Mike Summers, a program manager at Smartmatic and key developer of the technology.
"Who thinks the notion of requiring people to go to a particular location at a particular time on a particular day and use a pencil and a piece of paper which is then counted by hand is a good idea - It just seems at odds with how we lead our lives today," Summers told VOA.
The process in Utah will work like this: Internet voters first register online with some personal information. Once confirmed as party members, they'll receive a unique cryptographic key they will enter when voting on the party website. At the site, voters will be able to learn about the candidates and even change their ballot before submitting their vote; once a vote is submitted, however, it is permanent and unchangeable.
Summers, who will be on-hand in Utah to monitor the election, said voters need to trust that any system they use is safe and secure - be it pencil and paper, punch cards or an online website. "It's secure, private, and no vote can be changed or deleted, and no bogus votes can be introduced into the ballot box," he said.
To accomplish that in Utah, Summers says Smartmatic's technology will employ cryptographic blockchains- the first time anywhere that technology will be used in an online vote. Blockchain technology is a type of distributed digital ledger first used by Bitcoin to create permanent, secure and cryptographically protected records of various transactions, such as purchases or votes cast.
The move online may make unique sense for Utah. An overwhelming majority of residents there are members of the Church of Latter Day Saints, also known as Mormons; many of whom spend several years abroad doing missionary work.
Traditionally in U.S. elections, voters who are abroad, such as missionaries or U.S. military service personnel, have relied on ballots sent back and forth through the mail. But Summers says postal voting is notoriously unreliable.
"There's no security around postal voting," said Smartmatic's Mike Summers. "In many instances, only 20% of those postal ballots make it back on time. I see Internet voting as the perfect replacement." A representative of the Utah Republican party told VOA that the Internet isn't being looked at to replace actual voting at polling stations, but merely to make it easier for party members to participate in the process.
Mike Smith agrees. "I don't think anybody's proposing that online voting is there to replace polling station voting," he said. "We would just like to see more and more voters pushing at county and state levels and asking for this, telling their governments they want to be engaged and want more of this."

WASHINGTON - This Tuesday, March 22, when Republicans in Utah caucus to nominate a candidate ...
"Dump Trump" Fights Intolerance with Violence "Dump Trump" protesters ramped up their violent attacks against ...
Tucson - Donald Trump's campaign in Arizona is centered on his hard line against illegal ...
WASHINGTON - Donald Trump faces a tough challenge in Utah's caucuses on Tuesday, but the ...
Donald Trump is so strong among Utah Mormons that if the Republican frontrunner secures the ...
Get the latest Salt Lake City Sun headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Salt Lake City Sun - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved