2014-10~12
http://www.ifex.org/international/2014/12/10/linguistic_rights/

On Human Rights Day, call for greater protection of linguistic rights - IFEX
This statement was originally published on pen-international.org on 10 December 2014. On Human Rights Day, PEN International calls for greater protection of linguistic rights, cultural diversity and minority languages. PEN International has long recognised the vital role that language plays in identity, communications, social integration, education and development and has continued to defend linguistic rights of writers, journalist and others across the globe. It is estimated that without measures to protect and promote minority and endangered languages, half of the 6000-plus languages spoken today will disappear by the end of this century, with 96 per cent of these languages spoken by a mere 4 per cent of the world's population. Through campaigns, projects and events, PEN International works with Centres around the world to highlight the importance of mother-tongue education and translation as a means of spreading the unique culture of every language. In May 2011 PEN International's Translation and Linguistic Rights Committee launched the Girona Manifesto, a tool to aid the dissemination and implementation of the Universal Declaration on Linguistic Rights (UDLR), 15 years after leading a coalition of local and international civil society organisations to developed the UDLR at the 1996 World Conference on Linguistic Rights in Barcelona. PEN International actively monitors and campaigns on cases of individual writers at risk from minority language communities who face oppression for their writing and for the use of their own language including: Kurdish poet, linguist and academic, Mülazım Özcan, is currently standing trial on charges of "membership of an illegal organisation". The charges are thought to be linked to a lecture he gave on Kurdish language and literature at the BDP Political Academy. Tibetan internet writer, co-founder and editor of the Tibetan language website Chomei, Kunchok Tsephel Gopsey Tsang was convicted of "disclosing state secrets" on 12 November 2009, currently serving a 15-year prison sentence. Chomei website, which promotes Tibetan culture and literature, was created by Gopey Tsang and Tibetan poet Kyab-chen De-drol in 2005 and since then has been closely monitored by the authorities. Iranian journalist with the Azeri-language weekly Yarpagh, Said Matinpour, was arrested at his home in the north-western city of Zanjan on 28 May 2007 and convicted of 'espionage' and 'spreading propaganda against the system' and sentenced to eight years in prison in a closed trial by a Tehran Revolutionary Court. This year, for Human Rights Day, PEN International is calling for the immediate and unconditional release of Ilham Tohti, a writer, academic and member of China's minority Uyghur community. Tohti is one of the best-known scholars on Uyghur issues, and is a co-founder of the website Uyghur Online, which was designed to promote understanding between Uyghurs and Han Chinese. Tohti, who has been a target of frequent harassment by Chinese authorities for his outspoken views on Uyghur rights, was arrested in January 2014, he was formally charged with 'splittism' on 20 February 2013 amid a crackdown on Chinese Uyghurs who are critical of the government. He was convicted in September 2014 after an unfair trial in which he was denied adequate legal representation; Tohti's appeal against his conviction and sentence was rejected in November 2014. Two weeks later, a Chinese court sentenced seven of Tohti's students in western Xinjiang region between three and eight years in prison also on charges of 'splittism'. The students were accused of contributing to the website run by Tohti. PEN believes that Ilham Tohti is held for peacefully exercising his right to free expression and calls for his immediate and unconditional release. For more information about PEN International's work on promotion and protection of languages click here.
Representatives of United Nations member countries and nongovernmental organizations celebrated Human Rights Day at UN headquarters in New York with a panel discussion . . . The topics were family diversity, and the need to provide protection for families threatened because of their diversity and for individual family members.
The right to online expression, free from restrictions posed by surveillance, Internet censorship and laws silencing dissent.
The report surveys the rocky landscape for media and public discourse since the ruling military junta lifted the curtain on the southeast Asian nation in 2012 after five decades of isolation from the modern world.
The Cross Community Working Party on ICANN’s Corporate and Social Responsibility to Respect Human Rights (CCWP-HR) prepared this paper for presentation and discussion at ICANN54 in Dublin in October 2015. This paper is intended to build on and complement the previous reports published by the Council of Europe and ARTICLE 19 on ICANN’s responsibility to respect human rights.
The Pakistani government has significantly expanded its communication interception activities. This Privacy International report covers the intelligence services plan to capture all IP-traffic in Pakistan and other initiatives, pointing to gaps in the laws governing surveillance.
What is the correlation between the online and offline behaviour of Iranian citizens and the likelihood of their arrest in Iran today? Answering this question is the main focus of this new ARTICLE 19 report.
The need to regulate the transfer of surveillance technologies that pose a risk to human rights has been largely recognised by EU institutions and some EU member states. It is no longer a question of if the EU should do more in this area, but how.
In this report, ARTICLE 19 seeks to outline the implications of anonymity and encryption for the right to freedom of expression in the digital age.

Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance, International Federation of Journalists
 1 May 2015 


Cambodian Internet users overwhelmingly see the country’s Internet as increasingly becoming more accommodating of free expression but remain concerned about the effects of recently proposed government actions related to Internet surveillance and controls, according to the results of a study by CCIM, which surveyed almost 1,000 Cambodian Internet users from 22 provinces.
There are far too many countries where news and content providers constantly face a very special and formidable form of censorship, one exercised in the name of religion or even God. And with increasing frequency, this desire to thwart freedom of information invokes the hard-to-define and very subjective concept of the "feelings of believers."
From August 28 to October 15, 2014, PEN American Center carried out an international survey of writers1 , to investigate how government surveillance influences their thinking, research, and writing, as well as their views of government surveillance by the U.S. and its impact around the world.
This report is a baseline, a rst step for encouraging further advocacy eorts on the issue. We urge both the government and the civil society to take the challenge of addressing privacy rights as a serious and urgent priority towards ensuring the civil liberties of the citizens.
Internet intermediaries – such as internet service providers, search engines and social media platforms – play a crucial role in enabling people around the world to communicate with each other. Because of their technical capabilities, internet intermediaries are under increasing pressure from governments and interest groups to police online content.
How Large-Scale US Surveillance is Harming Journalism, Law, and American Democracy
Global press freedom has fallen to its lowest level in over a decade, according to the latest edition of Freedom House's press freedom survey. The decline was driven in part by major regression in several Middle Eastern states, including Egypt, Libya, and Jordan; marked setbacks in Turkey, Ukraine, and a number of countries in East Africa; and deterioration in the relatively open media environment of the United States.
How Large-Scale US Surveillance is Harming Journalism, Law, and American Democracy
International human rights law provides a clear and universal framework for the promotion and protection of the right to privacy, including in the context of domestic and extraterritorial surveillance, the interception of digital communications and the collection of personal data. Practices in many States have, however, revealed a lack of adequate national legislation and/or enforcement, weak procedural safeguards, and ineffective oversight, all of which have contributed to a lack of accountability for arbitrary or unlawful interference in the right to privacy.
Join Index on Censorship, writers, journalists and artists from around the world to condemn the shocking seizure of Turkish independent media group, Zaman. 


#USA presidential candidates: @eff wants to know where you stand on open access, the #TPP and privacy https://t.co/hW9txuf1Qd – 8:03 AM, 22 March 2016
555 Richmond Street West, Suite 1101, P.O. Box 407
 Toronto, ON, Canada, M5V 3B1
 Tel: +1 416 515 9622
 Fax: +1 416 515 7879
Contact us
IFEX publishes original and member-produced free expression news and reports. Some member content has been edited by IFEX. We invite you to contact [email protected] to request permission to reproduce or republish in whole or in part content from this site.