2014-10~12
http://www.worldbulletin.net/headlines/150257/china-jails-seven-students-of-uighur-scholar-for-separatism

China jails seven students of Uighur scholar for separatism | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
A Chinese court handed down sentences of up to eight years in prison to seven students of jailed Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti in China's western Xinjiang region(East turkestan), two rights lawyers said on Tuesday, in a case that has been criticised by the West.
Tohti, China's most prominent advocate for the rights of Muslim Uighurs, lost his appeal against a life sentence for separatism in November.
During his trial, he rejected the prosecution's evidence and said statements against him by student volunteers who had worked on a website he managed were made under pressure.
Li Fangping, the lawyer who defended Tohti, said he was told by the students' lawyer on Monday that they had been sentenced by the intermediate court in Xinjiang's capital Urumqi. Prosecutors had charged the students with separatism, Li said.
"Yesterday, we received information of (sentences) between three and eight years," Li told Reuters by telephone. "It's unclear what condition they are in. It is also unclear if they will appeal."
Liu Xiaoyuan, another lawyer who defended Tohti, confirmed the sentences. A court official contacted about the case declined to comment.
China's courts lack independence from the ruling Communist Party, and appeals in such cases are typically rejected. In severe cases, charges of separatism are punishable by death.
The seven students were separated into two trials in November, one conducted for in Chinese and a second held in the Uighur language for a single student.
China has made no mention of the cases and has not provided names of the students, many of whom had been detained since January. However, rights groups have identified the students.
The Global Times, a tabloid run by the party's official People's Daily, said six of the students, Perhat Halmurat, Shohret Nijat, Mutellip Imin, Abduqeyyum Ablimit, Atikem Rozi and Akbar Imin, are Uighur. The seventh student, Luo Yuwei, is from the Yi ethnic minority, the paper said.
The United States has called for the release of Tohti and his students.
Prosecutors said Tohti had "bewitched and coerced young ethnic students" on the website he ran called Uighurbiz.net. The economics professor said he never associated with any terrorist organisation and "relied only on pen and paper" to advocate for Uighurs' rights.
A 67-year-old man from the southeastern city of Chittagong, who had not travelled abroad, was found to have the virus in his blood
Security forces detonate roadside bomb in Muslim majority province where military has been clashing with ISIL-affiliated group
Two maintenance workers have been killed after a train in Singapore hit the workers
Suu Kyi to take one of four positions in new cabinet, with Minister of Foreign Affairs tipped to be the likely choice
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing'
Chinese police raided 148 points in Muslim Xinjiang in 2014
China opens separatism trial for students of jailed Uighur scholar
China court sentences Uighur scholar to life in prison -UPDATED
US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

Gunman killed in attack on Mali hotel hosting EU mission

US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar

NASA astronaut to return to Earth after year in space
