2014-10~12
http://www.chinapost.com.tw/china/national-news/2014/11/22/422383/Two-Chinese.htm

Two Chinese activists face closed-door hearings - The China Post
Veteran journalist Gao Yu, 70, went on trial in Beijing on accusations of leaking state secrets. Police and plainclothes agents blocked journalists from accessing the Beijing No. 3 People's Intermediate Court, but confirmed proceedings were underway.
Across the country, in the tumultuous Xinjiang region, a sealed jailhouse court upheld a separatism conviction and life sentence for Ilham Tohti, a noted scholar from China's Muslim Uighur minority who frequently criticized the government while advocating ethnic pride and greater economic opportunity.
Both proceedings highlight tensions between China's vision of rule of law, a top priority of president Xi Jinping, and Western notions of judicial fairness.
"If Gao Yu and Ilham Tohti were to receive genuinely fair hearings, the charges against them would be dismissed as blatant political persecution," William Nee, China researcher at Amnesty International, said in a statement Thursday.
Gao is one of the best-known intellectuals to have been imprisoned for supporting the 1989 Tiananmen pro-democracy protests. She was detained in April on charges of illegally obtaining a Communist Party document and providing it to an overseas website for publication, according to previous official reports.
State media did not identify the document, but it appeared to refer to a strategy paper — known as Document No. 9 — that reportedly argued for aggressive curbs on the spread of Western democracy, universal values, civil society, freedom of the press and other ideological concepts the party believed threatened its legitimacy.
Human rights activists have said Gao's case raises concerns that the authorities are using state secrets charges to silence government critics.
Ilham Tohti, who was tried in September in the regional capital of Urumqi, was accused of fomenting unrest. His supporters portray him as a moderate intent on mediating tensions between Xinjiang's native Uighurs and China's ethnic Han majority which have resulted in some 400 deaths in the last 20 months. Beijing maintains the violence is fueled by terrorists and Islamist insurgents trained outside China.
The Xinjiang High Court's rejection of the scholar's appeal Friday was delivered at a hearing inside the Urumqi detention center, in violation of normal judicial procedure, his two lawyers said. The hearing was set at short notice on a date that both lawyers were unable to attend, Liu Xiaoyuan and Li Fangping said.
His harsh sentence was the most severe in a decade in China for political speech and drew condemnation from the U.S. and the European Union.