2014-10~12
http://www.independent.ie/world-news/35-prisoners-found-dead-after-mass-drug-overdose-in-venezuelan-jail-30785296.html

35 prisoners found dead after mass drug overdose in Venezuelan jail - Independent.ie

The death toll has risen to 35 from what Venezuelan authorities say was a mass drug overdose after inmates stormed an infirmary during a prison uprising.

The heads of the congressional committee overseeing Venezuela's prisons says 100 other inmates are still being treated for intoxication with 20 still in critical condition.
The government said last week that 13 people died during the disturbances that began on Monday when prisoners launched a hunger strike to demand better conditions and force out the prison's warden.
The chief prosecutor's office is preparing to file charges against the warden for the deaths.
Turkey's main Kurdish party yesterday accused the Turkish government of turning a blind eye to Islamic State militants on its soil, after suicide bombers attacked the Syrian border town of Kobani - one of them using a car that came from Turkey.
Four Islamic State militants blew themselves up in Kobani, one detonating a car bomb at a border crossing.
At least 30 people were killed in clashes across the town, a monitoring group and local officials said. Islamic State snipers were also hiding among grain depots on the Turkish side of the border and firing on the town.
At least 15 people have been killed and 14 others injured during an attack in the far western Chinese region of Xinjiang, China's state media has reported.
It said that the violence started when a group of "terrorists" attacked civilians in Shache county, 200km from the regional capital of Kashgar.
There has been a wave of violence in the region, with more than 150 people being killed so far this year.
China has blamed the unrest on Uighurs pushing for the region's independence.
China's state-run Xinhua news agency reported that the attackers on Friday threw bombs out of a vehicle before they stabbed people on a street lined with food stalls.
Eleven of the dead are reported to be the attackers.
The number of people killed by the current Ebola outbreak in West Africa has risen to 6,928 according to the World Health Organisation (WHO).
The toll has increased by over 1,000 since the WHO's last report on Wednesday, but it includes unreported deaths from earlier in the outbreak.
Experts say the infection rate is more significant that the death toll, as it reflects how the virus is spreading.
Infection rates are decreasing in Liberia, but are high in Sierra Leone. There have been over 16,000 reported cases in Guinea, Sierra and Liberia.
TAIWAN'S Prime Minister, Jiang Yi-huah, quit yesterday after his ruling pro-China party suffered stiff defeats in local elections.
His Kuomintang party (KMT) appears to have lost control of districts across the country, including the mayor's office in the capital, Taipei.
Yesterday's polls were widely seen as a referendum on relations with China.
KMT supporters had argued for good relations with China, which views Taiwan as a renegade province.
THREE Taliban gunmen were killed while storming a guest house for aid workers in Afghanistan's capital yesterday in former US and UK base Camp Bastion, just a month after foreign troops left.
Taliban attacks are intensifying as the US-led coalition prepares to withdraw most of its soldiers by the end of 2014.
Arab League foreign ministers yesterday endorsed a draft resolution setting a timeframe for the creation of a Palestinian state and said they would formally present it to the United Nations Security Council for a vote within days.
The ministers said in a statement after their meeting that a follow-up committee including Jordan, and an Arab member of the Security Council, would begin to seek international backing for the resolution.
Cathy Gordon and Jan Colley Footballer Ched Evans's conviction for raping a 19-year-old woman is being reviewed by leading judges.
Debris that might be part of a plane engine has been found on the southern coast of South Africa and will be checked to see if it belongs to Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, which vanished two years ago, the Malaysian transport minister said.
Louise Kelly Facebook has activated its Safety Check feature following the deadly explosions in Brussels this morning.

'It had all the attributes of 'a win, is a win, is a win''

Several bomb attacks have thrown the spotlight on security in Turkey. Here...

Debris that might be part of a plane engine has been found on the southern coast of South...

Two maintenance staff working on elevated tracks in Singapore's mass transit system have been hit...

Le Monde have revealed a poignant cartoon in the wake...

The legs of some of those killed at Brussels airport on Tuesday...

One Irish man who works just 100 metres away from the site of...

Taoiseach Enda Kenny has told the numbers dead in Brussels are...

The Brussels attacks would have taken "quite a while" to plan...

Dublin MEP Brian Hayes was on the Brussels Metro this morning...

At least 21 people have been killed and many others injured in a...

Foreign secretary Philip Hammond says Britain is in contact with...

Footage courtsey of Jef Versele shows debris inside the Brussels...

US President Barack Obama shakes hand with Cuban President Raul Castro in Havana during the US...

An elephant has killed a man in West Bengal, India. The incident captured on a smartphone...