2014-10~12
http://newsdaily.com/2014/12/chinas-top-judge-urges-swift-severe-sentences-in-xinjiang/

World News | NewsDaily
BRUSSELS (Reuters) – Thirty-four people were killed in attacks on Brussels airport and a rush-hour metro train in the Belgian capital on Tuesday, according to public broadcaster VRT, triggering security alerts across Europe and bringing some cross-border traffic to a halt. A witness said he heard shouts in Arabic and shots shortly before two blasts struck a packed airport departure…
WASHINGTON (Reuters) – Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Tuesday he hoped the United States would continue to reject any move towards a U.N. Security Council resolution backing Palestinian statehood. “A Security Council Resolution to pressure Israel would further harden Palestinian positions and thereby could actually kill the chances of peace for many, many years. And that is why…
PARIS (Reuters) – France’s top appeals court ruled on Tuesday that wiretaps on former President Nicolas Sarkozy were legal and admissible as evidence, opening the way for him to stand trial for alleged corruption in a blow to his hopes of a presidential comeback. Sarkozy’s lawyers had argued that investigating magistrates had exceeded their powers and gone on a “fishing…
MOSCOW (Reuters) – A Russian court ruled on Tuesday that Ukrainian pilot Nadezhda Savchenko was guilty of complicity in killing two Russian journalists and said that she will be given a custodial sentence. The judge, Leonid Stepanenko, however could not finish reading out the sentence because Savchenko, who denied wrongdoing, starting signing a Ukrainian song, interrupting him. (Reporting by Dmitry…
KIEV (Reuters) – Ukraine’s military will call up some 10,000 men and seek volunteers to replace some of the 45,000 soldiers who are due to return home after more than a year on the front lines in the separatist east, President Petro Poroshenko said on Tuesday. A February 2015 ceasefire failed to completely halt the conflict with pro-Russian rebels that…
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) – Malaysia said on Tuesday it will send a team to retrieve a piece of debris found along the southern coast of South Africa to check whether it could belong to missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370. The wreckage, discovered near the town of Mosselbay on Tuesday, could be from an “inlet cowling” of an aircraft engine based…
JAKARTA (Reuters) – Indonesian cabbies clashed with motorbike drivers working for online apps on Tuesday, pulling them off their bikes and assaulting them as thousands of drivers took to the streets of Jakarta calling for a ban on ride-hailing apps like Grab and Uber. Police were overwhelmed as convoys of blue and white taxis operated by PT Blue Bird and…
LESBOS, Greece (Reuters) – The United Nations refugee agency said on Monday it would not operate in “detention centers” on the Greek island of Lesbos for migrants and refugees arriving from Turkey, dealing a blow to the European Union’s agreement with Ankara last week. The UNHCR said migrants and refugees were being held against their will at the reception facilities…
UNITED NATIONS/SEOUL (Reuters) – The U.N. Security Council agreed on Monday to a Chinese request to remove sanctions on four ships the United Nations had blacklisted for ties to Pyongyang’s arms trade. The agreement came after China secured assurances the vessels would not use North Korean crews, a U.S. official said. China asked the United States on March 16 for…
DUBAI (Reuters) – A senior member of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards urged the government on Tuesday to follow its supreme leader’s vision for a self-reliant economy and said the Guards wanted to play a bigger role to make that happen. Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran’s most powerful figure, called for a “resistance economy” on Sunday, saying U.S. policies to restrict business with…
Recommend NewsDaily on a variety of social networks to help spread the word.
Get the latest news with our free email newsletters, updated daily and weekly. Or view hourly updated newsfeeds in your RSS reader.
Let us know what you think of the new NewsDaily. We’re listening and working to make your experience better.

 NewsDaily -- a service of the science news site ScienceDaily -- is an automated general news site featuring breaking stories
 from major news wires, newspapers, and other sources across the world.
 


About ScienceDaily/NewsDaily  | 
 Advertise  | 
 Privacy  | 
 Terms of Use  | 
 Contact Us  | 
 COPYRIGHT


 Copyright © 2013 SCIENCEDAILY, LLC, AND/OR ITS LICENSED SOURCES. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.


 Note: Views expressed on NewsDaily do not necessarily reflect those of ScienceDaily or its staff.
