2014-10~12
http://jurist.org/paperchase/2014/11/china-passes-new-counter-espionage-law.php

JURIST - China passes new counter-espionage law to strengthen national security
[JURIST] The National People's Congress of China [official website] on Saturday passed a new counter-espionage law in an effort to strengthen national security. State media reported [Xinhua report] that the new law will allow authorities to seal or seize any items or other properties linked to any acts of espionage. The enforcement of the law will be carried out by China's national security agencies and judicial system in an effort to investigate and prevent attacks. However, the new law specifically stipulates that the "counterespionage work should proceed according to law, respect and ensure human rights, and guarantee the legal interests of citizens and organizations." Information seized from the new law will remain private in an effort for agencies to maintain confidentiality when sifting through information. The new law also bans the use of any espionage instrument which lawmakers have stated includes electronic devices such as cell phones.
Chinese national security has been an issue within the international community recently. China's leadership has sought to ease public concerns and maintain stability in light of recent violence. In August Chinese officials in the western region of Xinjiang executed [JURIST report] eight individuals charged with terrorism- and separatism-related crimes. Also that month a "terror group" was arrested [BBC report] in Xinjiang with more than one ton of material for explosive devices. And earlier in August 31 people were killed, and more than 90 injured, when two cars drove through a busy street market in Xinjiang, setting off explosives [Guardian report]. In April both a bombing and a knife attack [CNN report] occurred in the South Railway Station of Urumqi.







The Failure of Illicit Asset Recovery: A Haitian Case Study
 Rogendy Toussaint St. John's University School of Law 











When Equitable Remedies Give Way to Remedies at Law (or How to Avoid a Benefits Plan's Subrogation Clause)
John Klinker Loyola University Chicago Law School 











Iran's Seizure of United States Naval Personnel and Vessels
 Barry Feinstein Netanya Academic College School of Law 











Citizenship Deprivation in France: Between Nation and the Republic
 Sandra Mantu Radboud University Nijmegen Centre for Migration Law 











How Judge Garland Can Get to the Supreme Court
 David Frakt 











Class Actions Back from the Brink: The Future of Mootness and “Pick-Offs” in Class Action Litigation Following Campbell-Ewald Co. v. Gomez
 Evan M. Meyers and Paul Geske McGuire Law PC 





Paper Chase is JURIST's real-time legal news service, powered by a team of 30 law student reporters and editors led by law professor Bernard Hibbitts at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law. As an educational service, Paper Chase is dedicated to presenting important legal news and materials rapidly, objectively and intelligibly in an accessible format.


 JURIST is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization dedicated to bringing objective legal news and reasoned expert analysis to the public. 


 E-mail inquiries, changes, news tips, URLs, corrections, etc. to JURIST@jurist.org. 


 JURIST cannot and does not provide legal advice. 
 As such, nothing on this site is intended as legal advice. If you have a legal problem, please consult an attorney.


 We wish you the best of luck with your case, but we can't help.


© Copyright JURIST Legal News and Research Services, Inc., 2013. 


© Copyright JURIST Legal News and Research Services, Inc., 2013. 


 Please note that JURIST cannot and does not provide legal advice. 


 As such, nothing on this site is intended as legal advice. If you have a legal problem, please consult an attorney.


 We wish you the best of luck with your case, but we can't help.
