2014-10~12
http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/national/15-Nov-2014/pakistan-s-security-inextricably-linked-with-afghanistan-army

Pakistan’s security ‘inextricably linked’ with Afghanistan: army
ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s military told new Afghan President Ashraf Ghani that the security of the two countries was “inextricably linked” on Friday as Ghani kicked off a two-day trip aimed at rebuilding damaged ties between the two countries.Relations have been harmed by regular accusations from both countries that the other is harbouring anti-government insurgents who cross the porous border and mount deadly attacks. The trip is Ghani’s first state visit to Pakistan. A tweet from Major General Asim Bajwa, head of the military’s public relations wing, said Ghani’s trip took place amid a positive atmosphere and that border cooperation was “in focus”. “Tribute to Pak sacrifices, Bodes well for region,” he said. “Security, stability a shared goal. Our security inextricably linked.”Foreign Office spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam said discussions between Ghani and Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif would be wide-ranging. “Peace and stability, everything to do with bilateral cooperation, political engagement, economic cooperation, the training program - everything is on the table,” she said. One of Pakistan’s chief concerns is the growing influence of its archrival India in Afghanistan as NATO troops pull out this year. India has trained hundreds of Afghan security officers under a bilateral agreement.Earlier this month, the Pakistani military offered a brigade-level training package to the Afghan military. Such offers have been made before, but the Afghans declined amid suspicions that Pakistan was sheltering Afghan insurgents. Ghani met on Friday with Finance Minister Ishaq Dar, and the two set a goal of doubling two-way trade to $5 billion within two years, an Afghan statement said. Ghani, who took power in September following a protracted election dispute, has sought a role for China in mediating peace negotiations with the Afghan Taliban.China enjoys good relations with both Afghanistan and Pakistan, which also faces a Taliban insurgency, and is concerned about militancy in its Xinjiang region. Aslam says Pakistan welcomes an expanded role for China and is awaiting any requests from the Afghan government that might help kick-start the moribund Afghan peace process. Ghani paid a crucial visit to the General Headquarters (GHQ) to meet top military command, in a rare development that underlines security-related and strategic prospects entailing the event’s significanceAfter landing at the Chaklala Air base on Friday morning, the Afghan dignitary, who leads a 30-member delegation, is reported to have gone to the GHQ where he met Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Raheel Sharif and other top military and defence officials including Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) Director General Lieutenant General Rizwan Akhtar and Defence Secretary Lt Gen (r) Alam Khattak. The Afghan president was accompanied by Defence Minister General Bismillah Muhammadi, Afghan Chief of General Staff, General Sher Muhammad Karimi and senior Afghan security officials, Inter Services Public Relations (ISPR) said in a statement.The development, according to a former diplomat, underscores the importance of security-related issues concerning Pakistan and Afghan and the role of military establishment in this regard. “I think the Afghan president means business,” commented former ambassador Rustam Shah Mohmand in a conversation with Daily Times. “And he knows where the real power centres are.” For Mohmand, a head of state heading straight towards a military headquarters is something “a l lot more than carrying mere ceremonial importance.”“Even if the prime minister was abroad, there’s a whole lot of civilian leadership based in Islamabad including the president, the foreign minister and others for the Afghan elite to call on – a president meeting an army chief before anybody else— this is something extraordinary” he said. PM Nawaz Sharif was on an official visit to the United Kingdom and scheduled to land in Islamabad Friday night. The Afghan dignitary is scheduled to meet the PM and President Mamnoon Hussain. Afghan delegation, the ISPR said, was given detailed briefing on security situation on the Pak-Afghan border. National Security Adviser Sartaj Aziz and Foreign Secretary Aizaz Ahmad Chaudhry were also present on the occasion.The Afghan president appreciated Pakistan’s efforts to fight terrorism and sacrifices rendered by the nation. He said that Afghanistan wants to bolster security and defence ties with Pakistan including cooperation in training and border management. He also assured Afghan cooperation to jointly curb the menace of terrorism, the ISPR statement added.

 LAHORE - Though the World Water Day is being observed across the globe today yet water shortage is ...

 ISLAMABAD – The nation will celebrate the 76th anniversary of Pakistan Day on Wednesday ...

 NEW DELHI – A week before Pakistan's Special Investigation Team reaches India's Pathankot ...