2014-10~12
http://www.russiaherald.com/index.php/sid/228349959

Eight in China sentenced to death for Xinjiang attacks - Russia Herald
• Two sentenced for April 30 attack on train station
BEIJING, China - Eight people in China were on Monday sentenced to death following their conviction in two terror attacks that left at least 46 dead in the restive western region Xinjiang that populates Uighur Muslim-dominated.
Five others were also awarded suspended death sentences by the court in the Xinjiang capital Urumqi where explosions at train station in April and at city's crowded market in May killed 46 people, China Central Television said.
In the last less than 20 months, violent attacks linked to Xinjiang various parts of China have left about 400 people dead. The attacks have been blamed on separatists with foreign support.
Knife-wielding attackers, who were also armed with explosives, on April 30 killed one person and wounded 79 at a train station in Urumqi on the final day of a visit to the area by Chinese President Xi Jinping. Two assailants also died in the violence.
Militants on May 22 lobbed explosives and plowed two vehicles through a market in Urumqi, killing 39 people and wounding 90. Police killed four attackers on the scene.
The minority Uighur Muslims are accusing the Han Chinese-dominated government of cultural imperialism and repressive rule. They have also been complaining of economic disenfranchisement with the inflow of Han Chinese to their homeland. Beijing says it is pumping investments into the region to help it grow.
State television broadcaster China Central TV said two men were sentenced to death in the April train attack.
It quoted the defendants saying that they were instructed by a man outside China to carry out the attack. The broadcaster said the man who instructed the attack was connected to the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a group that China has designated a terrorist organization.
The broadcaster said that six people were sentenced to death on charges of terrorism, use of explosives and endangering public safety for the May 22 attack.
In a separate case, the same court jailed seven minority students of a prominent Uighur scholar for three to eight years after convicting them of separatism, rights lawyer Li Fangping said.
The Munich-based World Uyghur Congress said the sentencing was politically motivated and the accused were not given a fair trial.
"China will never seek the root causes in its extreme (ethnic) policies," Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the Congress, said in a statement.
Intercontinental ballistic missiles, a key element of the nuclear triad, remain the mainstay of Russia's nuclear deterrent forces to this day.
Based in silos and on mobile launchers, they stay on alert 24 hours a day across the vast territory from the Baltic Sea to the Pacific Ocean.
The missile shield is a guarantee of security for the country, and a whole military industry was established in Russia to serve it.
The main part of Russia's missile shield is the Votkinsk Plant, located in the foothills of the Urals.
During the single military products acceptance day, held under the chairmanship of President Vladimir Putin on March 11, 2016, the plant was appreciated among the most successful enterprises in the industry.
The Votkinsk Plant is one of the few Russian companies engaged in the production of intercontinental ballistic missiles, and the only one to manufacture the whole range of carriers employed by the Russian army.
Vladimir Putin inspects the Votkinsk plant's workshop. Source: Alexei Druzhinin / RIA Novosti
These are the main land-based missiles Topol-M and Yars as well as the Bulava missile, which was created for nuclear submarines, and the Iskander-M system - the newest tactical system for land forces.
The production of this complex technology is ensured by the advanced technical base, which is unique in Russia. In fact, the Votkinsk Plant is a generic name for several facilities including metallurgy, tool assembly and welding.
Together, they form a whole industrial area, surrounded by a city with a population of 100,000 people, with one in 10 residents working at the plant.
Until recently, the plant's many facilities were technically obsolete, but they have undergone a major modernization in recent years. A new thermal plant, where the hardening of the plant's whole production takes place, has been put in operation.
After the production upgrade in 2012, it was equipped with new electric furnaces, whose installation costs totaled $10 million. Metal cutting is carried out with the help of modern nanotechnology.
The metal casting laboratory produces high quality alloys that are used in the production of missiles. All these innovations have significantly increased the reputation of the Votkinsk Plant's products, almost completely eliminating the possibility of technical defects in recent years.
The modernization opened up new niches for the enterprise, which until now had nothing to do with its military production. Nevertheless, it previously manufactured some products for civilian use as well, including more exotic items such as baby strollers.
Defense industry conversion in the 1990s forced the plant's staff to develop fundamentally new directions. Today, its products include machinery and equipment for oil and gas and nuclear industries.
The Russia's first floating nuclear power plant. Source: Press photo
In 2009, the company started production of hydraulic shock absorbers for nuclear power plants, and, a year later, produced the components for the country's first floating nuclear power plant.
Today's modern facilities have little resemblance to the blacksmith and foundry workshops that started the history of the Votkinsk Plant in 1759.
Launched as a private company, it was located in an area rich in forests, which provided cheap fuel, and crossed with deep rivers, which served as convenient transport connections.
Soon the plant was transferred to the state, and, for the next 100 years, it specialized in producing high-grade armor steel. In 1858, its masters produced the metal spire for the Peter and Paul Cathedral in St. Petersburg, which has not been replaced ever since.
At the turn of the century, the plant became the center of military engineering, but it was during the Soviet years that it experienced its peak.
Until the mid-20th century, it was always the leading domestic artillery arsenal. Cannons manufactured by Votkinsk workers were actively employed by the Soviet army.
After 1957, the enterprise's capacities became involved in missile production. When the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty was signed in 1987, the Votkinsk Plant was specifically mentioned in the text of the agreement; the U.S. side has the right to carry out regular inspections of the plant's facilities and monitor its strategically important production.
Today, the Votkinsk Plant is still owned by the state and is one of the key participants in the implementation of the state defense order. Since 2013, it has nearly doubled the production of ballistic and tactical missiles.
MOSCOW, Russia - Search operations that lasted for hours at the Rostov-on-Don airport ended with ...
MOSCOW - Among the dozen 15-year-old girls in lavender leotards in Tatyana Galtseva's class at ...
A court in southern Russia has resumed reading the verdict in the case of Ukrainian ...
Russian swimming champion Yulia Efimova said she will fight charges she used the banned drug ...
A Russian prosecutor has asked a court in the western city of Belgorod to sentence ...
Get the latest Russia Herald headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 Russia Herald - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved