2014-10~12
http://ajw.asahi.com/article/asia/china/AJ201411210095

China courts put journalist on trial, reject Uighur scholar's appeal - AJW by The Asahi Shimbun
BEIJING--An outspoken Chinese journalist went on trial on Nov. 21 accused of revealing state secrets as a court rejected an appeal by a prominent Uighur scholar whose life sentence on separatism charges had sparked an outcry from the West.
The closed-door Beijing trial of Gao Yu, 70, accused of providing state secrets to foreign contacts lasted just four hours. Gao, well known for her critical articles of government leaders, faces a maximum sentence of life imprisonment if found guilty.
Gao was detained in early May and accused of having leaked an internal Chinese Communist Party document "calling for greater censorship of liberal and reformist ideas," according to New York-based Human Rights Watch. Gao's lawyers declined to confirm this, saying the evidence has been classified as state secrets.
In May, state television aired images of her making a confession. Gao's lawyer, Mo Shaoping, told Reuters before the trial that Gao was forced into making the confession because authorities had threatened her son with arrest.
Mo said the judge would deliver the verdict at a later date.
"(Gao Yu) denied the prosecution's allegations and she said she believed was innocent," Mo said.
In a detention center in the restive northwestern region of Xinjiang, Ilham Tohti, China's most prominent advocate for the rights of Muslim Uighurs, lost his appeal against a life sentence for separatism.
President Xi Jinping's government has convicted and detained hundreds of people in what rights groups say is the most severe assault on human rights in China since the 1989 crackdown on a pro-democracy movement in and around Beijing's Tiananmen Square.
Tohti, a 45-year-old economics professor, was jailed in September after being placed in detention for 10 months.
He had repeatedly criticized the government for not giving Xinjiang and its Uighurs more autonomy.
The court in Xinjiang refused to give Tohti an appeal hearing and said it would give its verdict in a written statement, a move that his lawyer, Liu Xiaoyuan, said was illegal.
Tohti would appeal the ruling to the High Court and the Supreme Court, Tohti's other lawyer, Li Fangping, said.
Tohti would ask the court to allow him to serve his sentence in Beijing, where his wife and children live, according to Li. Tohti had been kept in leg irons for close to two months, Li added.
Asked about Tohti's case, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told a news briefing that "the Chinese government makes such judicial decisions on the basis of facts and in accordance with the law."
China expands embargo on North Korea vessels to 6 ports
SHENYANG, China--China has expanded its embargo on port visits by North Korean freighters in a unilateral sanction to punish Pyongyang for its recent nuclear and missile tests.
BEIJING--Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg held a rare meeting Saturday with China's propaganda chief, at a time when Chinese authorities are tightening control over their cyberspace.
Japan's ruling party urged Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government on Wednesday to consider seeking international arbitration over Beijing's drilling activities in the disputed East China Sea, mirroring similar action by the Philippines.
BEIJING--China's chief prosecutor said Sunday that battling "infiltration, subversion and sabotage by hostile forces" is a key priority this year, with terrorists, ethnic separatists and religious extremists all in his cross hairs.
China says little to cheer in improved ties with 'two-faced' Japan
BEIJING--China sees little reason for optimism that relations with Japan will improve, China's Foreign Minister said on Tuesday, accusing "two-faced" Tokyo of constantly seeking to make trouble.
Copyright The Asahi Shimbun Company. All rights reserved. No reproduction or republication without written permission.