2014-10~12
http://www.dw.de/chinese-courts-reject-uighur-scholars-appeal-try-journalist/a-18078459

Chinese courts reject Uighur scholar′s appeal, try journalist | News | DW.COM | 21.11.2014

A Chinese court has rejected the appeal of prominent Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti against his life sentence for "separatism." This comes as journalist Gao Yu is tried on charges of leaking state secrets.


A court in China's western Xinjiang region on Friday upheld a life sentence imposed on a well-known Uighur scholar who was convicted on charges of fomenting unrest and advocating separatism.

The harsh verdict handed down in September to 
Ilham Tohti, 45, was the 
most severe in decades to be pronounced against a goverment critic in China.

Tohti, an economics professor, has repeatedly criticized the government in Beijing for its policies toward the Uighur minority in Xinjiang, but he has always denied promoting violence or separatism.

His lawyers, Liu Xiaoyuan and Li Fangping, said the appeal hearing at a detention center in the regional capital, Urumqi, was a violation of normal judicial procedure, and that the date was set at such short notice that neither of them was able to attend.

Tohti would appeal the ruling at the High Court and the Supreme Court, Li said, adding that his client had been kept in leg irons for almost two months.

Li also said that Tohti would request that his place of detention be shifted to Beijing, where his wife and children live.

Xianjing has been hit by a wave of violence that Beijing blames on separatist groups from among the mostly-Muslim Uighur minority. Rights groups say repressive government policies have fueled the unrest, in which 200 people have died this year alone.

In a second case that underlines Chinese President Xi Jinping's ongoing campaign to silence government critics, a Beijing court on Friday 
began its trial of outspoken journalist Gao Yu. She is accused of providing state secrets to foreign contacts.
The journalist, who suffers from heart problems, had to pause to take medicine several times during the four-hour hearing, her lawyer Mo Shaoping told the news agency AFP.

The 70-year-old Gao 
has contributed to Deutsche Welle along with other foreign media outlets,and is known for her articles criticizing government leaders.

Gao has already served a prison sentence in the 1990s. She was 
arrested in April this year on charges of having illegally obtained a Communist party document and handing it to an overseas website for publication, according to previous official reports.

The internal party communiqué reportedly called for a harsh crackdown on dissent and warning against Western-style democracy.

Sophie Richardson, China director of the US-based activist group Human Rights Watch, called Gao's case "a frontal assault on the freedom of expression and access to information," adding that Chinese laws on "state secrets" were being abused to silence political dissent.

Since coming to power in 2012, President Xi has overseen the detention or imprisonment of hundreds of government critics. Among them are promiinent legal expert Xu Zhiyong, who was sentenced to four years' imprisonment in January, and well-known human rights lawyer Pu Zhiqiang, who has not been released after being detained in May.
A Chinese court has sentenced prominent Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti to life in prison for "separatism." Rights groups have slammed the controversial trial as a "failure" of the justice system and demanded Tohti's release. (23.09.2014)
  

Ilham Tohti, a well-known Uighur and a moderate critic of Beijing's policy towards the country's Muslim minority, is on trial in China on charges of "separatism." DW takes a look at the scholar's life. (17.09.2014)
  

After six months in prison, the trial of the prominent dissident journalist and DW correspondent Gao Yu for "leaking state secrets" will get underway in China. Her lawyer says her confession was made under pressure. (20.11.2014)
  

DW Director General Peter Limbourg has criticized China's authorities for parading Chinese journalist Gao Yu on national television as a confessed criminal, saying it was "beneath human dignity." (09.05.2014)
  

Chinese journalist Gao Yu, who had gone missing at the end of April, has been detained by authorities for "revealing state secrets." Her arrest comes a month before the 25th anniversary of the Tiananmen Massacre. (08.05.2014)
  

German President Joachim Gauck has spoken to human rights lawyers, activists and writers on his visit to China. Germany's head of state is walking a tightrope between diplomacy and frankness.
A Chinese appeal court has cut the jail term of DW correspondent Gao Yu from seven to five years. But the ruling is still unfair, and the veteran Chinese journalist must be released, writes DW's Matthias von Hein.
A Beijing court reduced jailed veteran journalist Gao Yu's prison sentence from seven to five years. Deutsche Welle and international civic groups have long called for the release of the ailing 71-year-old.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
