2014-10~12
http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/world-news/pak-promises-to-fight-vigorously-against-chinas-enemies/articleshow/44839468.cms

Pakistan promises to fight vigorously against China's enemies - timesofindia-economictimes
BEIJING: Promising full cooperation to China in its anti-terrorism drive, Pakistan has said it will fight vigorously against China's "enemies" and assured best security for the ambitious economic corridor between the two nations.
"Pakistan sees China's enemies as their own," the Director general of Inter-Services Public Relations ( ISPR), Major General Asim Saleem Bajwa told media here over China's crackdown on the Al-Qaeda backed ETIM in restive Xinjiang province, bordering Pakistan.
"We will even fight more vigorously against any enemy of China," Bajwa was quoted as saying by state-run Global Times.
Bajwa, who was on a five-day visit to the country, said Pakistan and China are improving their cooperation in many spheres in anti-terrorist actions, including intelligence sharing and joint anti-terrorist training.
Xinjiang is restive for the past several years as the native Uygur Muslims protest increasing settlements of Hans from other parts of China.
The province has witnessed stepped up attacks by the East Turkistan Islamic Movement, fighting for the separation of Xinjiang from China.
On the proposed multi-billion dollar China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, he assured that his country would provide best security to safeguard Chinese companies and projects.
Terrorism is believed to pose a major threat to the progress of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. Since the project is already underway, security issues are raising more concerns, Global Times report said.
The multi billion dollar corridor comprising of road, rail and pipeline connectivity between Xinjiang and Pakistan's Gwadar port through PoK remained in conceptual stage so far due to prevailing militancy in Pakistan.
"We cannot wait to start the project until it is 100 per cent secure," Bajwa said.
He said Pakistan's operation against Taliban militants is in its last phase with over 1,000 terrorists killed, hundreds apprehended and many others dislodged.
The Pakistan Army launched the operations against the militants including that of ETIM in North Waziristan in June this year.
"We have cleared the main centres of logistics, command and communication of the terrorists, and their bases have been destroyed," Bajwa said.
He said that after the conclusion of the operation, terrorists in Pakistan will be unable to regroup.