2014-10~12
http://www.cfr.org/about/newsletters/archive/newsletter/n2293

Council on Foreign Relations - Daily News Brief - October 14, 2014
Return to CFR.org   |   Subscribe to the Daily News Brief
President Barack Obama and U.S. military commanders will meet with the defense ministers (Guardian) of twenty members of the U.S.-led coalition, including Turkey and Saudi Arabia, to discuss coordination and further action against ISIS on Tuesday. The meeting comes a day after Turkey denied the conclusion of a formal agreement on the U.S.-led coalition's use of its airbases. Meanwhile, Turkish jet fighters bombed (Hurriyet) Kurdish Worker's Party positions in southeastern Turkey late Monday in response to the shelling of a Turkish military outpost.
"Mr Obama needs to face up to two things. First, most of the coalition wants to see the back of Mr Assad: his serial brutalities against his own people have appalled Sunnis everywhere. Second, the fight against IS cannot succeed without competent troops on the ground to guide coalition aircraft to their targets, pursue enemy leaders and take and hold territory," writes the Economist.
"What is happening now is a classic problem of diplomacy: a mismatch between means and ends. President Obama wants to destroy ISIS and save the Kurds (and the Yazidi religious minority, and the Iraqi government in Baghdad), but he is willing to do no more than drop bombs. What happens when dropping bombs isn't enough?" writes Dexter Filkins in the New Yorker.
"We will defeat [ISIS] militarily by cutting off the flow of resources they receive —that's external financing, foreign fighters, logistic materiel, it's their ability to access the oil markets with oil they control. We will defeat them by challenging and undermining their ideology, because you can't bomb an ideology out of existence, you have to challenge it and argue it out of existence. And we will defeat it in Iraq by good governance," said British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond in an interview with Global Post.
Kim Jong-un made his first public appearance (Yonhap) in nearly forty days, visiting a new residential compound for satellite and nuclear scientists, according to state media. Photos released show Kim walking with a cane.
CHINA: Three police officers and three government officials were among the eight killed (Radio Free Asia) in new violence in the western Xinjiang region last week. Meanwhile, China sentenced twelve Uighurs to death on Monday for attacks in Xinjiang in July.
This CFR Backgrounder looks at Uighur militants in western China.
Pakistani and Indian authorities established the first hotline (Dawn) between the two armies to discuss ways to reduce tensions over the Line of Control on the Kashmir border. Clashes continue after almost ten days of violence and after the UN rejected (Press Trust of India) Pakistan's bid for intervention.
AFGHANISTAN: Six police officers and two civilians were killed in two separate attacks (Radio Free Europe) in Afghanistan on Tuesday according to Afghan officials. The attacks come a day after members of the Taliban ambushed a police convoy, leading to an hours-long gun battle (AFP) in northern Afghanistan.
Yemen's Houthi rebels took control of Hudeida (Al Arabiya), a port city on the Red Sea, hours after the government named a new prime minister in an attempt to end the ongoing political crisis.
Eight hundred Sierra Leone peacekeepers awaiting deployment to Somalia have been quarantined (Reuters) after one of the battalion's members tested positive for Ebola. Meanwhile, a UN employee (BBC) died in Germany on Tuesday of Ebola, having contracted the virus in Liberia.
LIBYA: Secretary of State John Kerry will meet (AFP) with the Libyan foreign minister in Paris on Tuesday to discuss the country's turmoil. The meeting comes days after UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon made a surprise visit to Tripoli, urging parties to find a solution to the country's political conflict.
Violence in Libya teeters on the brink of civil war, says journalist Mary Fitzgerald in this CFR Interview.
The British parliament voted on Monday to recognize a Palestinian state (FT) in a nonbinding resolution. The move was seen as largely symbolic, as Prime Minister David Cameron opposes recognition, and the vote is "not likely" to change (NYT) British policy.
EU: The EU has launched a two-week border control and police crackdown on irregular migrants (EU Observer) throughout the Schengen area on Monday. Estimates suggest that there are 150,000 to 450,000 people in the EU without proper documentation. The Schengen Area is the area comprising twenty-six European countries that have abolished passport and any other type of border control at their common borders.
Students and teachers in the Mexican state of Guerrero set fire (LAHT) to the state's capital building on Monday. Forty-three students disappeared there in September, and last week twenty-eight still-unidentified bodies were found nearby (Guardian). Police fired into the crowd, injuring a German university student.
UNITED STATES: Dozens of protesters were arrested (Al Jazeera) outside the police headquarters in Ferguson, Missouri on Monday. They were demanding the prosecution of the police officer responsible for the shooting death of Michael Brown in August.
Council on Foreign Relations — 58 East 68th Street — New York, NY 10065
 CFR does not share email addresses with third parties.