2014-10~12
http://www.ucanews.com/news/china-court-sentences-eight-uyghurs-to-death/72578

China court sentences eight Uyghurs to death ucanews.com
Chinese paramilitary police patrol a street in Urumqi following a deadly attack in May (AFP photo/Goh Chai Hin)
A Xinjiang court sentenced eight people to death on Monday following two attacks earlier this year that state media blamed on Islamic extremism.
An additional five people were given suspended death sentences, one received life in prison and three more received terms of between five and 10 years for two separate attacks in Xinjiang’s capital Urumqi that together left 46 people dead in April and May.
All of those sentenced had ethnic minority Muslim Uyghur names, according to reports on state television CCTV and the English-language China Daily.
Ahmet Rexit was sentenced to death after showing terror training videos and giving explosives to two accomplices who then carried out bombings and stabbings that left three dead and 79 injured at Urumqi train station in April.
Rexit, a 24-year-old Uyghur, was stopped trying to leave Xinjiang to join a “religious holy war” in September last year, the China Daily reported on Tuesday in an article condemning his ignorance of the Qur’an.
“Ahmet admitted he could only read the Qur’an; he could not understand its meaning,” it added.
Ahmet reportedly confessed to being taught religious precepts by Ismail Yusup, who state media described as a member of the Eastern Turkestan Islamic Movement, listed as a terrorist group by China, the United States and the United Nations.
Authorities are hunting Yusup with help from Interpol after he was thought to have fled the country, according to the China Daily.
State media reports did not give details of the six people also sentenced to death on Monday for an attack on an Urumqi market that left at least 43 people dead including four of the attackers on May 22.
The following day, President Xi Jinping launched a one-year “strike-hard” campaign pouring thousands of extra military and police into Xinjiang as authorities carried out the first mass trials in China in a generation.
New laws in Xinjiang have also placed greater restrictions on Muslim worship in recent months.
Nearly 50 Uyghurs have been sentenced to death for terrorism since the campaign started, with little sign of attacks slowing in Western China.
Last month, police shot dead 11 attackers who killed four people and injured 14 in a street in majority-Uyghur Shache County, bringing the total number reported killed in Xinjiang-related attacks to at least 183 people since the tougher measures began in May.

 Prelates cite 'unfair provisions' that favors US interests over the Philippines

 Practice remains widespread despite being declared illegal in 1977

 Also declaring Easter Monday a holiday will avoid alienation of Christian community, says Christian leader

 Scores of Sri Lankans have suffered appallingly abuses while working abroad