2014-10~12
http://www.indiagazette.com/index.php/sid/226777127

UN rights chief to visit Tibet, considering Xinjiang tour - India Gazette
BEIJING: China is faced with another challenge to its global image with the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad al Hussein saying he wants to inspect the situation in Tibet. He also said he would "move around" in China and might considering visiting the restive western province of Xinjiang. Most of the groundwork for the visit was done during the term of Hussein's predecessor, Navi Pillay, a South African of Tamil origin, who was the commissioner until last month. There was no immediate comment from China but it is expected to make extensive arrangements to ensure that rebel monks do not manage to meet UN officials, and counter the official view of the situation. This is also a bad time for China, which is facing a students revolt on the issue of democratic reforms in Hong Kong. "China in its Universal Periodic Review agreed to the recommendation that there be a visit by the high commissioner to Tibet. So we are discussing this issue with the Chinese authorities," Zeid Ra'ad al Hussein, said. Asked at a press conference if he would also visit the restive Chinese province of Xinjiang, Hussein said, "It is premature to discuss exactly where I would visit. We spoke of a multi-day visit, so I suspect that I would move around if indeed we are able to get the visit in place soon." One of the issues likely to crop during the tour by UN officials is the fate of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche, a popular Tibetan monk, who has been serving a life term. Over 120 Tibetans, including many monks, have committed self immolation since 2009 to highlight the cause of the rebels, protest Beijing's rule and request for a return of spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama. Rebel monks have earlier sprung some nasty surprises by successfully connecting with visiting foreign diplomats and selected journalists, who have been taken to Tibet. China points to the massive infrastructure development in Tibet, and claims to have raised the standards of living of Tibetans after decades of poverty. But its critics say that religious freedom and culture in Tibet has been systematically suppressed since the People's Liberation Army "peacefully liberated" the region forcing the Dalai Lama to leave for India in 1959....
New Delhi, Mar. 21 (ANI): A delegation of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) met President Pranab Mukherjee on Monday evening to apprise him of the Uttarakhand crisis, while demanding that Chief Minister Harish Rawat should be allowed to prove his majority on March 28 as fixed by the Governor, and not before that.
Interacting with reporters outside the Rashtrapati Bhavan here, leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad accused the Centre of forcing Governor K.K. Paul to advance the session and to ask the Chief Minister prove majority before March 28. "The Governor has already set a deadline for the Uttarakhand Government to prove their majority, hence, we urged the President that the Chief Minister should be allowed to prove his majority on March 28 as fixed by the Governor, and not before that," he said.
"The Centre did not give a chance to the Congress Government in Arunachal Pradesh to prove their majority, and the same should not happen with the Uttarakhand Government," Azad added.
"We apprised the President how the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with the help of the Central Government is trying to trample democratically elected Opposition parties-ruled governments, especially Congress Governments, in various states," said Azad.
A few weeks back, he said, the Congress Government in Arunachal was brought down, and now the effort is on to overthrow the Uttarakhand Government.
"We informed the President that BJP leaders held our MLAs captive in a bus against their wishes, and produced them before Governor K.K. Paul and now forcing them to issue statements. The 26 BJP MLAs from Uttarakhand have made nine helpless Congress MLAs their captive. We are concerned about their safety," said Azad.
Earlier on Friday, rejecting the Opposition's claim that the ruling Congress Government has slipped into minority after its nine MLAs defected, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Harish Rawat said his government was in majority and if the opposition has any doubt, they should bring a no confidence motion.
However, the BJP claimed that it would stake claim for the formation of a government in the state as the Rawat government was in minority. BJP's national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya told ANI on Friday that 35 legislators - 26 BJP and nine Congress rebels - would be meeting the Uttarakhand Governor K.K. Paul at Raj Bhawan to stake claim for the formation of a government. (ANI)

Geneva 21 March 2016 (WMO) - The year 2015 made history, with shattered temperature records, ...
NEW DELHI - Tens of thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and other ...
New Delhi, Mar 22 (ANI): Revv, the Delhi-NCR based self-drive car Rental Company has launched ...
New Delhi, March 22 (ANI): The 11th annual 'Caring with style' fashion show was held ...
New Delhi, Mar.22 (ANI): The Delhi High Court on Tuesday refused to entertain the Delhi ...
Get the latest India Gazette headlines delivered to your inbox.

Showing 1 thru 5 out of 10More from our network


Showing 6 thru 10 out of 10More from our network

© 2000 - 2016 India Gazette - Midwest Radio Network Pty Ltd. - (LU) A division of Big News Network. All rights reserved