2014-10~12
http://www.dw.de/chinese-court-sentences-a-dozen-to-death-for-xinjiang-attacks/a-17993334

Chinese court sentences a dozen to death for Xinjiang attacks | News | DW.COM | 13.10.2014

A Chinese court has sentenced 12 people to death in connection with a July attack in the restive Xinjiang region. Roughly 100 people were killed in clashes between police and an armed mob in China's northwestern region.


On Monday, a court in the city of Kashgar also handed out heavy sentences to dozens of others, saying the accused were found guilty of a number of crimes including terrorism, murder, kidnap, and making explosives.

A further 15 people were given suspended death sentences; nine got life in jail, whereas 20 people received sentences ranging from four to 20 years. According to the Reuters news agency, judging by their names, all these people belong to the minority Muslim Uighur community.

Beijing blames the Uighur Islamists for orchestrating 
the July 28 attacks in which 59 knife-wielding "terrorists" were gunned down by security forces in the towns of Elixku and Huangdi.

Hundreds of people have been killed in China's restive northwestern region in the past two years, mostly in clashes between Uighurs and the ethnic Han Chinese. The central government in Beijing also accuses Xinjiang's Islamist militants – who it says wants to establish an independent East Turkestan state - of attacks in other parts of the country. A market attack in May in the region's capital Urumqi left 39 dead. In September, the police shot dead 40 rioters, including some suicide bombers, after explosions in Luntai county.

According to Amnesty International, a total 778 executions 
were carried out in 2013 across the world. Amnesty believes that the Chinese government alone carries out more than 778 executions, but excludes China from its annual count citing a lack of reliable information.

The Chinese state media reported on Monday that two "thugs" had stabbed a policewoman to death in Xinjiang's Pishan county. The assailants on motorbikes used sharp weapons to "cruelly attack and kill" the lady, said the China Central Television (CCTV). The attack took place on Friday, however, the media only reported it on Monday.

CCTV did not specify the ethnicity of the policewoman but said that the two-month pregnant woman's name suggested she was an Uighur.

Exiled Uighur groups and rights activists claim that 
Beijing's repressive policies in Xinjiang are responsible for the unrest in the region, an accusation the government denies.

In September, a Chinese court sentenced 
prominent Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti to life in prison for "separatism."
A Chinese court has sentenced prominent Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti to life in prison for "separatism." Rights groups have slammed the controversial trial as a "failure" of the justice system and demanded Tohti's release. (23.09.2014)
  

A city in China's Xinjiang province has temporarily banned people with veils, head scarves and long beards from boarding buses. Experts say attempts at repressing their culture are fueling violence and extremism. (08.08.2014)
  

Dozens of people have been killed and more injured in fatal clashes between police and an armed mob in China's Xinjiang region. Local police said the attack was premeditated. (29.07.2014)
  

Amnesty International has released its annual report on the implementation of the death penalty around the world. The total number of executions in 2013 went up compared to 2012, largely due to spikes in Iran and Iraq. (27.03.2014)
  

Indonesian security forces have killed two ethnic Uighur Chinese militants following a shoot-out. The two men belonged to a militant network run by country's most wanted man.
China has announced the deaths of 28 people during a police crackdown in Xinjiang, home to many Muslim Uighurs. In September, the group allegedly launched a terror attack at a coal mine, killing more than a dozen people.
Beijing has approved a new counterterrorism law aimed primarily at controlling ethnic unrest domestically. But the law has drawn criticism from foreign governments who argue it violates human rights.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
