2014-10~12
http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/culture/2014-12/29/content_19188229.htm

In tune with the new year[1]- Chinadaily.com.cn
Pianist Lang Lang will perform Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue at the New Year concert with the China Philharmonic Orchestra. [Photo/China Daily]
The China Philharmonic Orchestra and star soloists, including Lang Lang, will embrace the Silk Road in concert next week, Chen Jie reports.
At the end of 1991, 27-year-old Yu Long had just finished his studies at the Berlin Hochschule der Kunste and was appointed chief conductor of the China Central Opera House. The young conductor's ambition to promote classical music in China started with the New Year Concert at the Great Hall of the People on Jan 1, 1992, which was the first New Year concert in China since 1949.
Two decades have passed, and more Chinese people have become used to going to a concert to celebrate the New Year. In Beijing, you have dozens of choices of orchestras from all over the world. But Yu and his China Philharmonic Orchestra always have star soloists and a less routine program than Strauss and the Radetzky March.
On Tuesday, Yu will conduct the orchestra in concert at the China National Convention Center with the theme of the Silk Road. The program will feature pianist Lang Lang, soprano Lei Jia and some ethnic musicians. Yu established the orchestra in 2000 and serves as its artistic director.
Sponsored by China Central TV and Audi, the concert will be broadcast live on CCTV's music channel.
Yu says it wasn't difficult to decide this year's theme. During President Xi Jinping's visit to Kazakhstan in September 2013, he initiated the Silk Road Economic Belt to revitalize the ancient, prosperous route from China via Central Asia and Russia to the Mediterranean Sea.
"The Silk Road, which linked traders, merchants, pilgrims, monks, nomads and dwellers, was not only a trade route but was also important for the development of Chinese culture and civilization," says Yu.
"It's an interesting theme to program a concert. We can choose music by both Chinese and Western composers portraying the regions along the route."
He notes that the concert will take the audience to explore the Silk Road from Chang'an, then capital of the Tang Dynasty (618-907), heading west to Xinjiang, Russia, the Middle East and Rome.

 Copyright 1995 - 

 . All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form. Note: Browsers with 1024*768 or higher resolution are suggested for this site.

 License for publishing multimedia online 0108263             Registration Number: 130349       
