2015-07~07
http://www.bignewsnetwork.com/index.php/sid/234801841

China Detains 20 Foreign Tourists for Watching Terror Video
Our eNewspaper network was founded in 2002 to provide stand-alone digital news sites tailored for the most searched-for locations for news. With a traditional newspaper format, more than 100 sites were established each with a newspaper-type name to cover the highest-ranked regions, countries, cities and states. Each site operates independently providing around-the-clock local news coverage, global & business updates, RSS feeds, and news releases.
Established in 1999, each News.Net site specializes in local news, weather, international headlines, business and finance reports. The News.Net directory of sites covers every major region, country and city around the world, as well as U.S. states and industry sectors. Each independently-operated portal is networked throughout the social media spectrum and is administered by Mainstream Media EC on behalf of Big News Network.
In a Facebook post, the Gift of the Givers organization said the 10 South Africans, nine Britons, and one Indian national were arrested at the Erdos Airport in China's Inner Mongolia on Friday.
Eleven of the tourists have been released, the statement said, adding nine others remain detained without charge for watching unspecified propaganda videos.
"The Chinese, now trying to find reasons for the detention suggested that some members were linked to a terror group, to a banned organization, to watching propaganda videos in their hotel room," the statement said.
The disaster relief agency, which says it has worked in 41 countries, says the tourists had no terror links and no criminal record in their country, but were part of a 47-day tour "to explore ancient China."
South African and British Embassy officials are meeting with Chinese foreign ministry officials to resolve the matter, the group said. Chinese officials have not commented on the detention.
China tightly regulates foreign missionary and, increasingly, foreign charity-based activities. Beijing also has arrested and charged Uighur Muslims and others who watched or shared videos deemed inappropriate by the government.
The British Embassy cited a British Foreign Office a statement that said nine Britons and two dual British-South African nationals had been detained in northern China and that it was "seeking further clarification" on the reason. It said British consular staff members had visited the group and were talking with Chinese authorities.
The embassy said six of those detained were likely to be deported soon.
Some material for this report came from the Associated Press. 
