2015-07~07
http://www.salon.com/2015/07/20/thai_official_uighurs_sent_back_to_china_being_treated_well/

Thai official: Uighurs sent back to China being treated well - Salon.com
BANGKOK (AP) — The 109 ethnic Uighur refugees whose deportation to China by Thailand this month sparked an international outcry are being been treated well at a rehabilitation center where they’ve been held since their return, Thailand’s national security chief said Monday. He said some were being investigated for their alleged involvement in terrorism.
Thai authorities sent back the Uighurs, who had been in Thailand for over a year and claimed to be Turkish, after determining they were Chinese. The repatriations were criticized by the U.N. refugee agency, the United States and others. In Turkey’s capital, Istanbul, protesters ransacked the Thai Consulate to denounce the decision.
National Security Council Secretary General Anusit Kunakorn was among five Thai officials who traveled to China last Wednesday to follow up on the Uighurs. They also met with top Chinese officials to discuss the issue.
Anusit told reporters Monday that the Uighurs (pronounced WEE-gurs) were living under good conditions at a rehabilitation center in Xinjiang province in western China.
The security chief said the Thai officials had been granted “unprecedented” access to the returned refugees by the Chinese authorities, noting that China’s government does not usually permit foreign governments or organizations to visit the center.
The Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking Muslim minority in the Xinjiang region. The group has complained of harsh cultural and religious suppression as well as economic marginalization under Chinese rule.
China’s position is that the Uighurs who were sent back by Thailand had left the country illegally. Beijing has accused Uighur separatists of terrorism in Xinjiang, where ethnic violence has left hundreds of people dead over the past two years.
Anusit displayed for reporters a series of photos taken at the rehabilitation center that showed a cafeteria and cabinets full of plates and utensils. He said photography was not allowed at the living quarters, where the Thai officials met the 109 Uighurs, including 20 women who were being held separately.
“The center was clean. The plates were all sanitized,” said Anusit, who arrived back in Thailand on Sunday night. “It’s like a recovery center, not a corrections facility. It was even better than when they were with us, when the conditions were quite poor.”
Anusit said 13 of the Uighurs, classified in the center by their orange vests, were being investigated by Chinese authorities for their alleged involvement in terrorism.
The U.N. refugee agency called the deportations “a flagrant violation of international law.” The United States also condemned Thailand’s action, and voiced deep concern about the protection of asylum-seekers in the Southeast Asian country. Amnesty International said the Uighurs could face detention or torture in China.
Anusit said the claims that they might be tortured were “imaginary” and said a top Chinese leader had told him that China’s government would provide security to the refugees.
In late June, Thailand sent back 172 Uighurs who were identified as Turkish back to Turkey. Anusit said the Thai government would hold off on deporting the remaining 60 Uighur refugees being held at detention centers across Thailand.
Named for the 15th-century Dutch artist known for vivid depictions of life in Hell, Detective Hieronymus “Harry” Bosch goes head to head with LA’s worst criminals. Actor Titus Welliver was handpicked by author and executive producer Michael Connelly to take Bosch from the pages to the screen.
Michael Connelly personally selected every LA location featured in the Bosch opening sequence. After 20 years with this character, Connelly wanted to be sure the show reflected the authenticity that longtime fans have appreciated over the years.
Actor Titus Welliver is the real deal. Having once considered becoming an NYC police officer, he was immediately drawn to this role. Much like Connelly’s own commitment to the character, Welliver is very passionate about remaining true to the source material.
In the series, Harry Bosch lent his expertise as a cop to Hollywood for the blockbuster movie The Black Echo, based on his own life story. The poster for the film hangs proudly in his living room, high above the Hollywood Hills.
Inspired by Michael Connelly’s books City of Bones, Echo Park, and The Concrete Blonde, the first season of Bosch introduced Amazon audiences to complex character Harry Bosch. Season 2, which features storylines from Trunk Music, The Drop and The Last Coyote premieres March 11th on Amazon Prime Video.
As an LA crime reporter early in his career, Michael Connelly worked side by side with the LAPD. With three LA homicide detectives on staff as consultants, Bosch lives up to its promise of authenticity.
Harry Bosch lives in the hills just above the Cahuenga Pass, the perfect spot to look out over the city he protects. Michael Connelly found this very spot in 1989, where he often returns to contemplate the city and find inspiration. Connelly also had his own home above Hollywood many years ago – in the High Tower apartments, where noir character Philip Marlowe lived in Robert Altman’s The Long Goodbye.
To ensure they would be able to realistically capture a cop’s perspective, the Bosch cast participated in special training with the LAPD, where they were faced with hard choices in real-life scenarios.
Michael Connelly’s inspiration for the gritty realness of Harry Bosch was often found during real testimonies while sitting in court as a reporter for the LA Times, including this defining exchange from Season 1, “How many people have you killed?” “I don’t know.”
Michael Connelly, an avid fan himself, wrote in a broadcast of an LA Dodgers game for the opening scenes of Season 1.
Stream Season 2 of the Amazon Original Series Bosch with Prime.
Waiting on Kanye's 'Life of Pablo' Pop-Up: 'Utopia' Hits a Snag in Soho
5 robots you should be keeping your eye on. For the sake of humanity.
Talk about a rush job: A heart surgery done in 19 minutes instead of hours saved his life.
If someone you love is depressed, here's 12 springy things you can do together to help.
It's hard to date when you're fat, but not for the reasons you might think.
A new company combines action figures with dolls, and boys love them.