2015-07~07
http://www.ecns.cn/2015/07-15/173083.shtml

Xinjiang Muslims lead peaceful life during Ramadan
Muslims in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region enjoyed a peaceful life during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, local experts said at a forum on Monday.
Mahmud Abuduwaili, deputy director of the Institute of History Studies with the Xinjiang Academy of Social Sciences, said the regional government respects Muslim's belief and stresses noninterference in their fasting or any other religious practices during the Ramadan.
Some overseas media reports that claimed China had banned Muslim residents from fasting during the Ramadan are completely false, said Abuduwaili.
"Muslim residents in Urumqi, the capital city of Xinjiang, led a peaceful life during the Ramadan," said Ma Jinwei, deputy director of the Institute of Religion Studies at the academy, adding that the city houses 401 mosques and over 40,000 Muslim residents had meals at the mosque every night.
"I closed my restaurant from dawn till dusk and we fasted and prayed at home. Everything is normal and we have never been interfered with," a local Uyghur resident, Imin Jan, told the Global Times Tuesday.
"Some Halal restaurants in Urumqi are closed during the Ramadan while some are still open for those who do not fast. It all depends on the owner's will," said Sun Houming, president of the School of Humanities with the Xinjiang Education Institute.
Sun also noted that the news of China restricting Ramadan is a rumor.
Xinjiang authorities have begun selling discount meat to residents ahead of Eid al-Fitr, a large festival that marks the end of the Ramadan, which falls on Saturday, the Xinhua News Agency reported Tuesday.
From Monday to Friday, authorities are expected to offer around 1,000 tons of fresh mutton through nearly 200 sales points in 39 counties administered by 11 prefectures and cities, said a spokesman with the region's commerce department.
The meat is priced between 40 yuan ($6.5) to 44 yuan per kilogram, which is 10 to 15 yuan cheaper than market prices, said the spokesman.
The Xinjiang government has a long-held tradition of supplying cheap meat prior to major festivals, such as Eid al-Fitr.