2015-07~07
http://www.ifex.org/china/2015/07/14/efforts_to_quash_human_rights_groups/

Chinese efforts to quash human rights campaigns rippling out of control - IFEX
This statement was originally published on pen-international.org on 13 july 2015.  A string of disappearances and arrests of over 100 human rights lawyers in China in the past week is the boldest move yet in Beijing's sprawling campaign to destroy China's human rights movement, PEN American Center said today. On Friday, authorities in Beijing detained Li Heping, one of China's most prominent human rights lawyers who represents activists like Chen Guangcheng, after police entered and searched his house, seizing his computers and documents. Li is one of 106 lawyers, legal staff, and human rights defenders to be detained, questioned, or reported missing over the weekend, according to The Guardian. Among the worst hit is Fengrui, a law firm known for its human rights lawyers, from which six attorneys have been criminally detained since July 9. The arrests and disappearances of these lawyers appear to be part of a large-scale, well-coordinated effort by President Xi Jinping's government to crush the human rights movement in China and intimidate lawyers and other professionals who offer help to Chinese dissidents and human rights defenders. Coming amid a steep sell-off in the Chinese markets, the crackdown is a disturbing signal that as the Chinese economy slows down, rights advocates may pay the price at the hands of a government fearful that economic downturn may sow unrest. “First they came after the dissidents and now, increasingly, the Chinese government is coming after the lawyers and, in some cases, the lawyers' lawyers. We are witnessing a troubling trend of rippling accusations and persecution of ever-widening circles of those who stand in support and defense of those who dissent,” said Suzanne Nossel, executive director of PEN American Center. Also among those questioned this weekend, reports The South China Morning Post, is Li Fangping, attorney for imprisoned Uyghur academic Ilham Tohti. Winner of the 2014 PEN/Barbara Goldsmith Freedom to Write Award, Tohti is currently serving a life sentence after a show trial last September on trumped up charges of separatism.
Draft counterterrorism law would require telecoms and ISPs to provide backdoor access and encryption keys to government
Strike by journalists calling for end to censorship met with state-led ideological campaign
The 100-page report shows that Tibetan refugee communities in Nepal are now facing a de facto ban on political protests, sharp restrictions on public activities promoting Tibetan culture and religion, and routine abuses by Nepali security forces.
"Crackdown on bloggers and social media users follows presidential transition"
IFJ's report documents the continued deterioration of press freedoms in Mainland China, as well as Hong Kong and Macau. It takes its title in direct response to Chinese authorities adopting more repressive measures in 2013 reminiscent of the Mao era four decades ago, including direct censorship, Internet surveillance, abuse of legal process, harassment and intimidation, and televised confessions of journalists and bloggers without trial.
A growing number of Chinese assert basic rights, share uncensored information online, and challenge perceived injustice despite the regime’s hostility toward organised dissent
President Hu Jintao, the leading jailer of press freedom defenders in the world
More than half of imprisoned journalists from minority regions, Tibet and Xinjiang
China "has more journalists, bloggers and cyber-dissidents in prison than any other country"
Authorities take "unprecedented step of rounding up over 30 of the most outspoken critics and 'disappearing' them for weeks"
Your right to come together with other individuals to collectively express, promote, pursue and defend common interests.
In recent years, the space afforded to civil society to operate freely has been shrinking dramatically across the world, presenting a serious threat to democracy and human rights. Eastern Europe and Central Asia (EECA) have been especially badly affected by this shrinking political space.
The first months of 2014 saw a continuation of the political unrest that rocked the capital city of Phnom Penh in the months following the disputed July 2013 national elections. Political protests continued throughout the city in 2014 as the opposition Cambodian National Rescue Party (CNRP) boycotted its National Assembly seats over alleged widespread irregularities in the previous year’s election, which maintained control of the legislative body under the Cambodian People’s Party, and its long-ruling leader Prime Minister Hun Sen, who in 2014 marked 30 years as head of state.
This 140-page report documents lax government enforcement of labor laws and brand actions that hinder monitoring and compliance. In recent years, wage protests, instances of garment workers fainting, and burdensome union registration procedures have spotlighted the plight of workers in Cambodia’s garment factories.
This report documents 45 cases from Caracas and three states, involving more than 150 victims, in which security forces have abused the rights of protesters and other people in the vicinity of demonstrations.
The 100-page report shows that Tibetan refugee communities in Nepal are now facing a de facto ban on political protests, sharp restrictions on public activities promoting Tibetan culture and religion, and routine abuses by Nepali security forces.
This factsheet provides an overview of the recent rubbish collectors’ protests and subsequent negotiations with garbage collection company CINTRI. The strike for an increased minimum wage and improved working conditions went ahead in spite of the current ban on all demonstrations, assemblies and marches, and remained peaceful, despite heavy military police presence
This Briefing Note addresses the increasing practice of forcing human rights defenders, protesters and everyday citizens to sign written statements agreeing to not partake in future demonstrations or illegal activities, as a condition of their release or to avoid charges
Charges against dozens of protesters in connection with the protest on the eve of President Vladimir Putin’s 2012 inauguration are "inappropriate" and "disproportionate," according to a panel of independent experts. Twenty seven people are facing "mass rioting" charges in connection with the protest on May 6, 2012.
There is some skepticism about how much influence Burma's youth movement can assert in terms of political change. Still, activists have benefited from greater access to the Internet, which has brought a new side to the online community after decades of heavy censorship
The report documents case after case in which police, the paramilitary Rapid Action Battalion (RAB), and the Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB) opened fire into crowds or beat protesters in a brutal and unlawful manner
In a context of increasing protests about working conditions in garment factories throughout Cambodia, the Garment Factory Map is aimed at providing greater transparency regarding the ownership and supply chains of Cambodian garment factories
Join Index on Censorship, writers, journalists and artists from around the world to condemn the shocking seizure of Turkish independent media group, Zaman. 


Trudeau quietly agrees to share info on Canadians with #USA https://t.co/4U28E5kk9A #Canada #privacy – 9:03 AM, 21 March 2016
555 Richmond Street West, Suite 1101, P.O. Box 407
 Toronto, ON, Canada, M5V 3B1
 Tel: +1 416 515 9622
 Fax: +1 416 515 7879
Contact us
IFEX publishes original and member-produced free expression news and reports. Some member content has been edited by IFEX. We invite you to contact [email protected] to request permission to reproduce or republish in whole or in part content from this site.