2015-07~07
http://www.chiangraitimes.com/category/thailand-national-news/feed

News – Chiang Rai Times English Language Newspaper
Majority of these victims were reportedly tricked by swindlers who posed as “successful Western professionals”
HONG KONG – As Internet accessibility in Asia continues to soar, several reports have shown a link with the rise in people becoming victims of Internet crimes.
South China Morning Post (SCMP) reported on Monday (Mar 21) that more women in Hong Kong are falling prey to love scams via online dating sites and apps.
Majority of these victims were reportedly tricked by swindlers who posed as “successful Western professionals” and lost millions of dollars while at it.
According to the report, 90 per cent of the victims were women with tertiary education, and the most vulnerable were between 30 to 40 years old.
One victim, 38-year-old Jennifer Choi, told SCMP how she was conned out of more than HK$200,000 by her “British lover” in March last year. Although the ordeal took a toll on her health, she did not make a police complaint as she found that it “does not heal the wounds in (her) heart”.
Hong Kong police recorded a total of 62 cases last year, an increase from 29 back in 2014, SCMP reported. Last year, swindlers pocketed a total of HK$32 million and transferred most of the money to Malaysia and China.
On the other hand, Malaysians are also found to be most gullible and likely to fall for online scams, revealed a recent study conducted by Telenor Group.
The Star reported that a total of 400 users aged 18 to 65 from Malaysia, India, Singapore, and Thailand took part in the study.
Among these countries, Malaysia came out tops with 46 per cent of respondents who admitted to falling victim to various Internet crimes that include online dating scams.
Also attributing to the same study, The Nation reported that males and females share similar attitudes towards staying safe online and are equally likely to feel in control. However, women are found to be more careful about their email security.
Channel NewsAsia reported that in the first half of 2015, people in Singapore lost S$1.59 million in online credit-for-sex scams, as well as S$3.7 million in Internet love scams.
Though the danger – and repercussions – of online scams are very real, it is relatively simple to avoid falling prey to them. It may seem old news to more experienced users, but since so many still fall prey to online scams, these tips bear repeating:
2. Ignore advertisements that appear “too good to be true”.
5. Disseminate information and share preventive tips with friends and family via social media.
On Wednesday the Bank of Thailand (BOT) will weigh in on monetary policy,
BANGKOK – The Bank of Thailand is facing a tough policy decision, on Wednesday the Bank of Thailand (BOT) will weigh in on monetary policy.
The Bank of Thailand (BOT) is faced with choosing between cutting interest rates to bolster a flagging economy or keeping them on hold amid rising concerns about debt levels.
Moody’s Analytics expects the BOT to stand pat with its current 1.5 percent benchmark rate.
“The Thai economy is off to a poor start in 2016. Weak external demand continues to be a drag on exports. This is hitting export-oriented manufacturers, leading to declining industrial production. The domestic economy is not faring much better,” it said in a note Friday.
“While these conditions would suggest an easing of monetary policy, we think this is unlikely. There are rising concerns about private debt levels, which would only be exacerbated by lower interest rates.”
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un watches landing and anti-landing exercises being carried out by the Korean People’s Army (KPA) at an unknown location.
PYONGYANG – North Korea fired five short-range projectiles into the sea off its east coast on Monday, South Korea’s military said, amid heightened tension over the isolated country’s nuclear and rocket programs.
The unidentified projectiles were launched from south of the city of Hamhung and flew about 200 km (120 miles), landing in waters east of North Korea, South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff said in a statement.
On Friday, North Korea fired two mid-range ballistic missiles into the sea in defiance of tough new U.N. and U.S. sanctions slapped on the country following nuclear and rocket tests earlier this year.
“North Korea should refrain from all provocative actions, including missile launches, which are in clear violation of U.N. resolutions,” Sung Kim, the U.S. special envoy for North Korea, told reporters in Seoul when asked about Monday’s firing.
In recent weeks, North Korea has stepped up its bellicose rhetoric, threatening pre-emptive nuclear strikes against Washington and Seoul and firing short-range missiles and artillery into the sea.
The North protests annual ongoing joint U.S.-South Korea military drills.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said last week that the country would soon test a nuclear warhead and ballistic missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads in what would be a direct violation of U.N. resolutions that have the backing of Pyongyang’s chief ally, China.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said China was “deeply concerned” about the situation on the Korean peninsula.
“We hope North Korea does not do anything to contravene U.N. Security Council resolutions. We also hope all sides can remain calm and exercise restraint and avoid doing anything to exacerbate confrontation or tensions,” she told a daily news briefing.
(Reporting by Ju-min Park and James Pearson; Additional reporting by Ben Blanchard in Beijing; Editing by Nick Macfie and Tony Munroe)
Obama will be the first sitting US president to visit Cuba since Calvin Coolidge in 1928.
HAVANA (AP) — Brushing past profound differences, President Barack Obama and Cuban President Raul Castro will sit down Monday at Havana’s Palace of the Revolution for a historic meeting, offering critical clues about whether Obama’s sharp U-turn in policy will be fully reciprocated.
For Obama, there’s no better place than Havana to show that engagement can do more than isolation to bring about tangible change in the tiny communist nation. Yet for the Cubans, the glaring question is whether their own government is ready to prove the ambitious diplomatic opening is more than just talk.
Obama opened the first presidential visit to Cuba in nearly 90 years on Sunday when Air Force One touched down in Havana. Strolling through the grand cobblestoned plazas of Old Havana with his wife, Michelle, and daughters Sasha and Malia, Obama created an indelible image for both Cubans and Americans of the peacemaking that he and Castro have cautiously but doggedly pursued.
“That’s the future that we hope for: young American children, young Cuban children, by the time they’re adults, our hope is that they think it’s natural that a U.S. president should be visiting Cuba,” Obama told American diplomats assigned to the newly reopened U.S. Embassy. “They think it’s natural that the two peoples are working together.”
Indeed, the U.S. and Cuba are working more closely together now than at any time since relations took a nose dive amid Cuba’s 1959 revolution. Yet while Americans are now flocking to Cuba in greater numbers, closer ties have to bring about the degree of change that many Cubans hoped would follow after Obama and Castro moved to normalize relations 15 months ago.
Since taking power in 2008, Raul Castro has orchestrated economic and social reforms with lasting and broad-based impact, though to many Cubans and foreigners they appear slow to materialize. Not only are hundreds of thousands of Cubans now able to pursue free enterprise, but restrictions on cellphones and Internet have been eased and citizens feel more comfortable discussing Cuba’s problems.
Yet Castro has given little ground when it comes to changing Cuba’s single-party system or easing strict limits on media, assembly and political dissent. His government has also repeatedly chided Obama for saying he wanted to empower Cubans.
None of that has dissuaded Obama, who insists that any intransigence by Cuba’s government only proves why Cubans will be better off when they’re intimately exposed to American values.
“Let God will that this is good for all Cubans,” said Odilia Collazo, a 79-year-old Havana resident, as she watched Obama’s arrival on state television. “It seems to me that Obama wants to do something good before he leaves.”
To that end, Obama came to Havana hoping his visit would spur Castro to offer gestures of good faith and meaningful change, which would undermine critics who accuse Obama of kowtowing to an authoritarian government. Though Cuba approved U.S. hotel chains Starwood and Marriott to operate here and moved to lift fees on converting U.S. dollars, those steps pale in comparison to sweeping changes Obama has enacted to lift decades-old U.S. restrictions.
On his first full day in Cuba, Obama was to lay a wreath Monday at the memorial to Jose Marti, a Cuban independence hero, before heading to Castro’s presidential offices. After a series of meetings, the two leaders planned to address reporters. The White House’s attempts to get Castro to agree to a joint news conference appeared unsuccessful, and it was unclear whether they’d answer any questions.
Castro appears to be closely and intensely managing what constitutes the most important change in Cuban foreign policy since the Cold War. Though Obama’s aides have downplayed expectations for the meeting, Castro’s remarks alongside Obama will be closely parsed for indications of whether he’ll respond to Obama’s opening with major new domestic changes.
Obama also planned an event with U.S. and Cuban entrepreneurs aimed at championing Cuba’s fledgling private sector. He was to be feted in the evening at a state dinner, an honor illustrating just how far the U.S. and Cuba have come despite their deep ideological differences.
His visit was to continue Tuesday with a major speech that Cuban officials said would be carried on TV. Before departing for Argentina, Obama planned to meet with political dissidents and attend a game between Major League Baseball’s Tampa Bay Rays and Cuba’s beloved national team.
In his first few hours on the island, Obama created indelible images of a new U.S-Cuba relationship as he walked the rain-soaked streets of Havana and dined at a privately-owned restaurant in a bustling, working-class neighborhood. Jubilant crowds surged toward his heavily fortified motorcade, reminders of the Cuban people’s deep affection for Americans despite decades of enmity between their governments.
Yet in a pointed reminder that Obama’s aspirations for improved human rights in Cuba have yet to be fulfilled, a group of anti-government protesters were arrested while Air Force One was flying to Cuba, a scene that plays out weekly in Havana. Members of the Ladies in White group, one of Cuba’s most prominent opposition groups, were expected to attend Obama’s meeting with Cuban dissidents.
AP White House Correspondent Julie Pace contributed to this report.
Chinese Falun Gong practicioners and asylum seekers meditate in Bangkok (AFP Photo/Lillian Suwanrumpha)
BANGKOK – Preferring to risk death than face deportation, Dong Junming boarded a boat off Thailand’s coast alongside eight fellow Chinese asylum-seekers in early March with the improbable plan of steering themselves to New Zealand.
He and his group are part of a growing number of refugees — especially Chinese nationals — who feel Thailand is no longer a safe haven under junta rule.
“I was desperate and frightened,” Dong, 52, told AFP of his attempted sea escape. “Even though I could have died, I had to try.”
Thailand has a complex and ambivalent attitude towards refugees. It still holds hundreds of thousands in border camps — most the legacy of regional Cold War conflict years — but it does not legally recognise refugees or offer asylum.
This places the UN’s refugee agency (UNHCR) in charge of handling a rising tide of applications.
Porous borders and a reputation for religious tolerance has long drawn those seeking sanctuary, with ad-hoc law enforcement allowing arrivals to settle into the shadows, or more often, move on to a third country.
Under the Thai junta, which seized power in 2014 vowing to clean the country of corruption and crime, there has been a crackdown on human smuggling gangs, which has won some praise and arrests.
But refugees and rights groups say raids against asylum-seekers are also up, with many left to languish in detention.
Worse, they might be deported back to where they fled from — an acute fear for the Chinese as Thailand’s generals move closer to Beijing.
Last summer Bangkok forcibly deported more than 100 Uighurs, a Muslim minority that rights groups say face persecution in western China.
In November two political dissidents already granted resettlement packages in Canada were also forcibly returned, while two Chinese men seeking safety on Thai soil vanished and reportedly emerged in Chinese custody earlier this year.
For Dong and his compatriots, followers of banned religious movement Falun Gong, the writing was on the wall. So they made their escape.
High waves and strong winds swiftly snuffed the ill-fated journey, damaging the boat and forcing the inexperienced crew back to Thai shores.
Those without proper entry permits were jailed and could now be taken to one of Thailand’s overcrowded immigration detention centres, where refugees face two options: buy a ticket home, or wait — often for years.
“Everyone has to be under Thai law, even if they are asylum-seekers,” said Thai immigration police commissioner Nathathorn Prousoontorn, whose department has adopted the slogan “Good guys in, bad guys out” to publicise a raft of stricter policies towards all foreigners.
He said police will free refugees if they receive a petition from the UNHCR, but advocacy groups dispute this and say securing a release has become nearly impossible under the junta.
This is grim news for Lisa Zhang, another Chinese Falun Gong asylum-seeker whose husband was among the boat crew jailed after police discovered he didn’t have a proper visa.
He was carrying a UNHCR asylum-seeker document, according to his wife, but no Thai visa because he was smuggled into the country to avoid Chinese border guards.
“If he’s deported back to China, that would be worse than death,” she said, struggling to hold back tears.
Until his attempted sea journey, Dong, who says he was tortured in China, went by the book.
He legally entered Thailand and his first stop in Bangkok was the UNHCR.
But two years on his family has yet to be granted their first interview, the initial step in a lengthy process that could lead to resettlement.
So like other refugees he put his life on hold, unable to legally hold a job while his daughter misses out on years of school.
The UNHCR admits it doesn’t have the resources to do the job: only ten staff are handling 7,000 cases.
“We cannot help everyone but prioritise assistance to the most vulnerable,” said spokeswoman Vivian Tan.
Bangkok’s refugees currently hail from nearly 50 countries with Pakistanis — many of them Christian — making up the biggest block.
A web of political, bureaucratic and diplomatic entanglements determine which groups can be processed first, with many waiting for years while others are shipped out in a matter of months.
But the vast majority are unlikely to lead the normal lives they long for — less than one percent of the world’s refugees are successfully resettled.
After two years in Bangkok with little progress and no protection, Lisa’s hopes are fast dwindling.
“We are forgotten by the world,” she said. “I am hopeless.”