2015-07~07
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/58790/20150721/unemployed-man-detonates-himself-eastern-china.htm

Unemployed Man Detonates Himself in Eastern China; 2 Dead, 24 Injured : Society : Chinatopix
An explosion at a petrochemical plant is seen in Rizhao, Shandong province. A man has committed suicide by exploding himself in eastern China on Monday.(Photo : REUTERS/China Daily )
A 33-year-old unemployed man has committed suicide by blowing himself up in park in China's eastern Shandong Province. The explosion on Monday left two people dead including the bomber and 24 others critically injured.
Xinhua reported that around 10: 34 p.m. local time, the suspect, Xie Xingtang, an unemployed villager, blew himself up at the west gate of Huxi Park in Shanxian County, Heze city.
Police officials and paramedics were quick to arrive at the scene of the blast.
According to Li Meng, press officer of the county public security bureau, the deadly explosion happened in a small square, just outside the park. Elderly people are said to have usually gathered at the site of the blast to watch the opera. Authorities have not revealed how many senior citizens were affected in the blast.
According to state media, three victims of the blast have been hospitalized and are in critical condition.
Preliminary investigations have not yet revealed what type of materials Xingtang used in the blast. Officials are reportedly still investigating what caused him to commit suicide in that manner. At the moment, officials have not linked the explosion with terrorism.
Xingtang had reportedly been suffering from liver cirrhosis and his condition was deteriorating despite receiving medical treatment. Officials say the suspect was single.
According to Reuters, photos of the blast site circulating on popular Chinese microblogging site Sina Weibo shows police officials surrounding debris. Several people with injuries were seen bleeding profusely.  
There have been a number of immolations in China with homemade bombs. Many of the victims involved in local feuds prefer blowing themselves up because the government strictly controls firearms, the Guardian reported.
In February, a suicide bomber killed eight people in the restive Xinjiang region. The suspect, who NY Times describes as a Uighur native, detonated the device in Hotan Prefecture after grabbing a police officer. At least seven people were reportedly injured in the blast.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent MacBook Pro 2016 rumors revealed more potential features of the upcoming Apple laptop. read more