2015-07~07
http://www.timeslive.co.za/world/2015/07/10/Thai-embassy-closed-in-Turkey-after-protest-against-deported-Uighurs

Thai embassy closed in Turkey after protest against deported Uighurs - Times LIVE

 Mpumalanga magistrate's warning came as he denied another suspected serial rapist bail in the same court on Thursday afternoon.

 President Robert Mugabe, whose red-carpet stumbles are well known, warned his main opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to be careful not to trip on a step at a plush hotel in Harare recently, a newspaper reported on Sunday.

 A detachment of U.S. Marines is on the ground in Iraq to support US and coalition efforts against Islamic State, the U.S. military said.

 South Africa will host a second “Africa Month” later this year‚ as the country attempts to dispel ongoing xenophobic tensions.

 Kaizer Chiefs held Asec Mimosas to a 0-0 draw in the second leg of their Caf Champions League first-round tie at Houphouet Boigny Stadium in Abidjan on Sunday‚ which was not enough to prevent Amakhosi exiting 1-0 on aggregate.

 Joe Pietersen missed a simple penalty after the hooter to leave the Sharks and Bulls tied for a 16-16 draw at Loftus on Friday.

 AB de Villiers announced himself at the World Twenty20 with a swashbuckling 64 and made Afghanistan pay heavily for dropping him twice as South Africa revived their campaign with a 37-run victory at the Wankhede Stadium on Sunday.

 With another $6.3-million up for grabs when the PGA Tour completes its Florida swing, it is an opportune moment to salute the prime architect behind such riches.

 More than two dozen players who feature in evidence collected from gamblers should be investigated for possible links to betting rings, an Italian prosecutor has told the BBC and BuzzFeed News.

 Nico Rosberg capitalised on a slow start off pole by world champion teammate Lewis Hamilton and superior tyre strategy over Ferrari to win the season-opening Australian Grand Prix on Sunday.

 In the build-up to a fight, it's not just Hekkie Budler who makes sacrifices - wife Roxy also has to do her bit.

 Bruce Springsteen has written an apology note for a schoolboy in case he was late to class after attending his concert.

 Bruce Springsteen has written an apology note for a schoolboy in case he was late to class after attending his concert.

 Zebra & Giraffe has announced that they are splitting up after eight years.

 Sunday Times and Delta Airlines are giving away three pairs of plane tickets to any American city.

 Paracetamol, a common over-the-counter pain-reliever, does not work in the treatment of osteoarthritis, a joint disorder afflicting tens of millions of elderly people.

 Erectile dysfunction (ED) is not just for older men. While studies show that even younger men battle the condition, most men may not be ready to talk about it.

 Dr Michael Mol and John Berry's new cookbook is aimed at the everyday family cook who has their eye on healthier meals, but that doesn't mean dessert is off the menu. Try their recipe for chocolate tartlets

 If you sign a contract that includes a clause which is not compliant with the Consumer Protection Act, does that mean that you forfeit that protection?

 Progress in reducing carbon intensity in the travel and tourism industry can be attributed to several actions, according to a new report by the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC).

 Although “no incidents involving defective inflators have been reported” Honda Motor Southern Africa on Thursday “expanded its recall campaign to replace Takata-supplied airbag inflators”.

 Australia's iconic Sydney Opera House and Harbour Bridge went dark on Saturday night, as the Earth Hour campaign to switch off lights to call for action on climate change began rolling out across the planet, organisers said.

 To Professor Mandla Makhanya, Principal of the University of South Africa

 All data is delayed by 15 min. Data supplied by Profile Data 
 Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.

The temporary closure of Thailand's embassy in Ankara and consulate in Istanbul comes after anti-Chinese demonstrators stormed the latter, damaging furnishings and pulling down the sign outside.
It was the latest protest in Turkey over the treatment of the Turkic-speaking, largely Muslim minority in China's northwestern Xinjiang region where Uighurs say they face cultural and religious repression.
Scores are believed to have fled the restive area in recent years, sometimes travelling through Southeast Asia in hope of resettling in Turkey.
The fate of some 400 Uighurs in Thailand had been in doubt since they were detained for illegal entry in March 2014, while authorities verified their nationalities amid a tussle between Turkey and China over where they should be moved.
The junta-ruled kingdom revealed Thursday that around 100 Uighurs were deported to China on Wednesday, while an earlier group of 172 women and children were sent to Turkey in late June.
The China deportations sparked international condemnation from the United States, rights groups and the UN as well as the Istanbul protest.
In Bangkok, Thai government spokesman Werachon Sukhondhapatipak told reporters Friday that "the government has ordered the Thai embassy and consulate to close temporarily today".
"We will assess the situation on a daily basis," he said, adding all was currently under control with no Thai nationals affected, while citizens had been warned to remain on alert.
According to a Turkish news agency, an Asian tourist was attacked by pro-Uighur protesters in Ankara Thursday as she was thought to be Chinese.
Responding to criticism over the China deportations, Werachon said that high-level Thai officials would travel to the country next week to follow-up on the returned group.
Uighurs in Xinjiang, who number around 10 million, have long said they face discrimination. More recently China has launched a wide-ranging crackdown in the region in response to rising violence which authorities blame on Islamist separatists.
Under pressure from Beijing, countries including Cambodia, Malaysia and Pakistan have all in recent years forcibly returned members of the ethnic minority to China.
On Thursday the United States expressed "grave disappointment" in Thailand.
"We condemn Thailand's forced deportation on July 9 of over 100 ethnic Uighurs to China, where they could face harsh treatment and a lack of due process," the State Department said in a statement.