2015-07~07
http://www.neurope.eu/article/erdogan-in-china-for-tense-talks/

Erdogan in China for tense talks
Chinese President Xi Jinping, (R) shakes hands with Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, as they attend a signing ceremony at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China, 29 July 2015. Erdogan is in China for his first visit to the country as president, amid a recent spike in tensions over the treatment of a minority group.
Turkey is in effect posing as the protector of the Uighur minority in both religious and ethnic terms
Erdogan in China amid tension over treatment of the Uighur minority.
On Wednesday, the Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan arrived in Beijing to meet China’s Xi Jinping. Since 2013, Turkey is negotiating the supply of a Chinese missile defense system worth $3.4 bn to the dismay of its NATO allies. Trade will also be on the agenda, as Turkey has a large trade deficit vis-à-vis China.
In recent weeks, Turkey and China are experiencing unprecedented tension as Istanbul is concerned for the treatment of the Muslim Uighur minority living in the western Xinjiang province, regarded as ethnically “Turkic.” Erdogan has used the term “genocide,” whilst crowds of demonstrators attacked the Thai consulate and burned the Chinese flag in Istanbul following the deportation of Uighur asylum seekers from Bangkok. While Turkey protested the prosecution of Uighurs seeking to fast during the holy month of Ramadan, Ankara is issuing travel documents for Uighur asylum seekers.
Chinese media condemn pan-Turkic (Touranic) nationalist elements in China. Turkey, on its part condemns the prosecution of public officers, party members, and students that are prosecuted for their religious and political beliefs. Protestors in Turkey do indeed refer to the western Xinjiang province as East Turkestan.
Earlier in July, China issued a travel warning to its citizens, pointing to the danger of “attacks and harassment;” tourists are warned to avoid demonstrations and photographing the crowd. Indeed, East Asian tourists in Istanbul were indeed targeted by angry protesters with Turkish TV featuring a young woman insisting in English “I’m not Chinese! I’m Korean!”