2015-07~07
https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/returning-uighurs-to-a-dangerous-home/2015/07/24/97d8d492-2be8-11e5-bd33-395c05608059_story.html

Thailand’s move to return Uighurs to China is a massive moral failure - The Washington Post
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
AFTER A military coup in May 2014 that converted Thailand from democracy to dictatorship, the country bade farewell to free expression and fair elections. Now, it’s saying goodbye to its international obligations, too. There’s no starker example of Thailand’s legal and moral failures than its decision this month to send 109 refugee Uighurs — an ethnically Turkish Muslim minority — back to China, where they will almost surely face persecution and possibly torture.
China’s Uighurs reside mostly in the far-western region of Xinjiang, but their roots are Turkic. That sets them apart from the Han majority in China, where Uighurs have been systematically denied their rights for years amid mounting violence on both sides. Getting out of China in the first place has not been easy for the Uighurs, but with Thailand and countries such as Malaysia and Cambodia capitulating to Chinese repatriation demands, staying out is becoming just as difficult.
Thailand’s repatriation comes after a strong rebuke from the Chinese government after Thailand allowed approximately 170 Uighur women and children to travel to Turkey. China is Thailand’s second-largest trading partner, which makes it especially dangerous for the smaller country to antagonize its powerful neighbor. This month’s repatriation is an unsurprising attempt at appeasement. But Thailand has bigger obligations it should keep in mind: As a participant in the Convention Against Torture, Thailand has undertaken not to send anyone in its custody back to a state where the individual would face persecution. For a Uighur, China is exactly that state.
Uighurs returned to China in the past have been subject to arbitrary arrest and indefinite detention, usually followed by criminal prosecution on trumped-up charges. In this case, China has said that at least some of the Uighurs deported from Thailand are terrorists eager to join jihad — without offering any evidence to support those claims.
This month’s move lowers Thailand to the standard of the very country it seeks to gratify: China is an infamous practitioner of forced repatriation, having sent tens of thousands of fleeing North Koreans back to their home country over the course of two decades.
Though it is Thailand’s responsibility to uphold its own obligations instead of pandering to known human rights violators, China deserves equal censure. Thailand should issue an immediate moratorium on deporting not only Uighurs but also anyone whose refu­gee status is pending. And China should provide open information about the well-being and whereabouts of those returned to its territory against their will. It should also stop twisting arms to make weaker countries do its dirty work.
The Post’s View: Two Uighurs get a fresh start in El Salvador
Chen Guangcheng: 26 years after Tiananmen, things are worse in China
Success! Check your inbox for details. You might also like:
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses!
Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games!
Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve.