2015-07~07
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/diplomacy-defence/article/1837348/bangkok-sends-8-uygurs-turkey-after-criticism-deporting

Bangkok sends 8 Uygurs to Turkey after criticism for deporting more than 100 refugees to China | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Move comes after Thai government criticised for forcibly deporting 109 Uygurs to China
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
The Thai government has sent eight Uygur refugees to Turkey, days after it came under intense criticism for forcibly deporting more than 100 Uygurs back to China.
 A Thai government official and a Turkish aid agency said four women and four children from the ethnic Muslim minority landed in Istanbul yesterday. Their arrival raises the number of Uygurs that Turkey has taken in from Thailand to 181.
 The Thai government said the refugees sent to Turkey had Turkish documents, while the 109 Uygurs deported to China had only Chinese documentation.
Human rights groups fear the Uygurs will face persecution back in China.
Tong Bishan, division chief of the Ministry of Public Security’s Criminal Investigation Department, said Uygurs from the Xinjiang  region had been given Turkish identity papers in Southeast Asia by Turkish diplomats and then taken to Turkey, where some had been sold to fight for groups like Islamic State as “cannon fodder”.
“Turkish embassies in Southeast Asia will give them proof of identity,” Tong told  foreign reporters in Beijing yesterday.
“They are obviously Chinese but they will give them identities as Turkish nationals.”
Xinhua yesterday also published an English commentary, accusing “some foreign governments and forces of politicising Thailand’s repatriation of Chinese illegal immigrants” and 8“incorrectly terming them 8refugees, [which] reeks of double standards”.
It said: “These serve as connivance in illegal immigration and smuggling and violate international treaties and laws, which harm global joint efforts in combating illegal immigration.”  
The claim is likely to further anger Ankara, already alarmed by the return of 109 Uygurs to China from Thailand this week.