2015-07~07
http://leadership.ng/news/446080/thailand-china-in-spotlight-over-uighur-muslims-deportation

Thailand, China In Spotlight Over Uighur Muslims Deportation | Nigerian News from Leadership News
Thailand on Friday sought to defuse international criticism of its decision to deport nearly 100 Uighur Muslims back to China.
It said it had rejected a request from Beijing to return all the Uighur migrants held in its detention camps.
The deportations have drawn condemnation from the U.S and human rights groups and sparked sometimes violent protests in Turkey, home to a large Uighur the Diaspora.
Some Turks have a strong sense of shared cultural and religious heritage with the mainly Muslim Uighurs, who speak a Turkic language.
China accused `some foreign governments and forces’ of trying to exploit the Uighur issue for their own ends and said it was `cooperating normally’ with Thailand to curb illegal immigration.
Col. Weerachon Sukhondhapatipak, Deputy Thai government spokesman, said Bangkok, in line with `international agreement and international law’, had to verify the nationality of all the Uighur migrants case by case before deciding their fate.
“It is not like all of a sudden China asks for Uighurs and we just give them back. China asked for all Uighur Muslims in Thailand to be sent back but we said we could not do it,” he told newsmens.
Thailand has already identified more than 170 Uighurs as Turkish citizens and sent them to Turkey over the past month, said Weerachon, while nearly 100 were sent back to China.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) strongly urged China to ensure proper treatment of the Uighurs.
On Friday New York-based Human Rights Watch said the Uighurs faced “grim” maltreatment back in China.
“Thailand should make it clear it won’t further violate international law by immediately announcing a moratorium on additional deportations of Turkic people to China,” said Sophie Richardson, China director for Human Rights Watch.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, hit back at Beijing’s critics at a daily news briefing on Friday.
“We have noticed that some foreign governments and forces have abused the facts and called these illegal immigrants, without any basis, refugees.
“They have unscrupulously criticized the normal law cooperation between China and Thailand on the issue of fighting illegal immigration,” she said. (Reuters/NAN)

« Previous Article
Coroner’s Verdict On Collapsed Synagogue Building, Judicial Ravings, Rape - Northern Youths


Next Article »
Russia More Of Threat Than Islamic State, Says U.S. Joint Chief Of Staff Nominee

For Africa and Africans, migration is a way of life and this is also largely true of people of the other continents. Mobility has always been critical in sustaining or…
The two day state visit to Abuja last week by President Jacob Zuma of South Africa is widely interpreted within the diplomatic circle as an important step to reinvigorating Nigeria-South…
Global oil prices have been fallen sharply over the past seven months, leading to significant revenue shortfalls in many energy exporting nations. From 2010 until mid-2014, world oil prices had…
The economy is critical to any society. The welfare of all individuals in any polity is based on the economic performance of that entity. Here, we have a Central Bank…
These days, the answer to the headline question comes in dollars. You have probably heard the story of the orange seller who told a potential customer that one orange now…
It is becoming very difficult to follow the list of corruption charges by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Every government ministry, department or agency is ruined by corruption.…
Several issues have been calling for the attention of President Muhammadu Buhari in recent times. Of the six or seven issues I’ve listed so far, the president has responded to…