2015-07~07
http://www.worldbulletin.net/erdogan-aims-to-boost-bilateral-ties-during-asia-trip/162537/erdogan-aims-to-boost-bilateral-ties-during-asia-trip

Erdogan aims to boost bilateral ties during Asia trip | Politics | Worldbulletin News
 President Recep Tayyip Erdogan told reporters Tuesday that outside of visiting Muslim ethnic groups during a four-day trip to China and Indonesia this week, his goal is to improve bilateral relations.
 Along with trade meetings, he said that a forum will be also held between local businessmen and those accompanying him from Turkey, with some agreements already waiting to be signed.
"I believe during the talks we will take key steps in Turkey-China cooperation both in infrastructure and superstructure," Erdogan said at Ankara's Esenboga Airport prior to flying to China, where he will be from July 28-30
The trip is Erdogan's first to the country as president, and follows a previous visit in 2012 as prime minister. Since his first election win of 2003, diplomatic relations -- established between the two countries in 1971 -- have improved significantly, peaking over the last 10 years through high-level bilateral visits.
In 2010, the two countries adopted a “Joint Declaration on the Establishment and Development of the Strategic Relationship of Cooperation,” and bilateral trade -- at $1 billion in 2000 -- is now estimated to have surpassed more then $24 billion.
On Tuesday, Erdogan stated that talks between the two countries will also cover issues related to Turkey's G20 term presidency, which China will inherit Jan. 1.
Asked if a long-range air and anti-missile defense system -- which was put up for tender in 2009 -- will be discussed during the trip, Erdogan admitted to some setbacks but said that further discussions would be held.
Turkey is currently negotiating the building of the system with several countries, however NATO has come out in opposition to a Chinese bid -- the lowest -- of $3.5 billion.
The president underlined that "China was the country that made the best bid," adding that Turkey would welcome any offer that enhances it.
Ismet Yilmaz, former defense minister, has said that Turkey would integrate such a system from China into its national defense system, which would be used outside of the NATO system.
The visit to China follows a diplomatic spat between Beijing and Ankara after around 180 Uighur Turks held at detention centers in Thailand were sent to Turkey, and a subsequent 109 moved to China.
The Uighur -- thought to number around 350 -- had been at the center of a diplomatic tug-of-war, with China identifying them as from northwestern Xinjiang, while Turkey has welcomed them as its own.
Turkey has also expressed concerns that Muslims in China have been denied the right to fast during the Ramadan period -- a suggestion that China has denied.
Accompanying Erdogan on this week's trip will be Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu, Health Minister Mehmet Muezzinoglu, Transport Minister Feridun Bilgin, Economy Minister Nihat Zeybekci and Energy Minister Taner Yildiz.
Erdogan said Tuesday that during the visit they will meet representatives from China's Uighur Turk and Hui Muslim minorities.
Following the China trip, Erdogan is scheduled to fly to Indonesia, where he will meet President Joko Widodo and participate in a Turkey-Indonesia Business Forum.
According to the Foreign Ministry’s website, the two countries aim to secure trade volume this year of $5 billion.
"As the largest economy in Southeast Asia, Indonesia is our largest trade partner in the Far East. We are also in close cooperation in international platforms such as G20, the Organization of Islamic Cooperation along with MIKTA (Mexico, Indonesia, South Korea, Turkey, and Australia)," Erdogan told reporters.
He said that a Turkey-Indonesia business forum would pave the way for further projects, while further discussion between the two countries would focus on how to coordinate efforts to solve Muslim issues in the Middle East and Asia.
On leaving Indonesia Aug. 1, Erdogan is scheduled to visit Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif for a working dinner at Islamabad Airport.
'As long as our nation keeps strong our unity, togetherness and solidarity, [we can prevail over terrorism],' Turkish president says
Turkish dailies on Monday reported the identity of the suicide bomber who blew himself up on Istanbul's Istiklal Street
At least 164 people have been held over unauthorised Nevruz demonstrations on Sunday in Istanbul
Turkish president expresses his sorrow over deaths of Israeli and Iranian citizens in Saturday's Istanbul suicide attack
Turkish president says Assad committed state terrorism and must be tried at the International Criminal Court
Turkish president also accuses European Union of being insincere in Turkey's accession process
Turkish FM also calls Belgium counterpart to convey Turkey’s objections to allowing PKK supporters pitch tents in Brussels near EU-Turkey summit venue
Turkish president also slams Belgian government for allowing PKK supporters in Brussels to pitch tents near EU-Turkey summit
Ankara public prosecutor asks Justice Ministry to request Interpol red notice for 47 PKK terrorists, including senior figures
'The attacker has been formally identified' as an ISIL member
Reports suggest ISIL extremists are suspected of being behind the latest attack which targeted Istiklal Caddesi
Victims of the attack are memorialized with carnations; defiant signs go up saying, 'We are not afraid'
Turkish ambassador to the US Serdar Kilic accepts the award on behalf of the Turkish government and people
NATO and EU states also express solidarity with Turkey in aftermath of attack on Istiklal Street
Of the 36 people injured in this mornings suicide bomb in Istiklal Street, 12 of them have been established to be foreigners.
Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu's remarks come during joint press conference with his Iranian counterpart Zarif in Istanbul
Foreign press praises Erdogan for talking man out of suicide...
Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

UN sees need for space travel rules within 5 years

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
