2015-07~07
https://www.tytnetwork.com/2015/07/21/donald-trumps-poll-numbers-double-jeb-bushs/

Donald Trump's Poll Numbers DOUBLE Jeb Bush's
In The Young Turks on YouTube by Aaron WysockiJuly 21, 20152 Comments
Donald Trump is no longer sitting at number one. He’s now sitting at an overwhelming number one in the Republican primary. The numbers are gigantic: 24% in a field of sixteen candidates. Many don’t understand why this is happening. Cenk Uygur, host of The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“Even with the drop in support on the final night of the survey, Trump was the favorite of 24 percent of registered Republicans and Republican-leaning independents. That is the highest percentage and biggest lead recorded by any GOP candidate this year in Post-ABC News polls and marks a sixfold increase in his support since late May, shortly before he formally joined the race.”*
Hopefully Donald Trump is the canary in the coal mine and a bad omen for the Republicans.
Good segment. I would say, though, that I don’t think it’s just strong leadership that the Republicans want, it’s that they are just sick of the entrenched management in Washington. All they do is spew the same empty rhetoric and make a show of making a fight against certain policies, when they are completely uncommitted and fully aware that their speeches and talk appearances will do nothing to produce actual results. It is as if the Democrats still control both houses.
One thing I will say you have wrong (or at least, no one can have right) is about what kinds of people are crossing the border. Latino crime is vastly under-reported due to fear of deportations. No survey is accurate – we don’t even know the true number of illegals currently living here.
Do some or even many “good” people cross the border and contribute honestly? Sure. But we do know that there are many undesirables, particularly gang members, coming from Mexico and beyond. And who can know the true number? It’s impossible, so anyone claiming to be 100% correct on either side of this issue is blowing smoke and shouldn’t be taken seriously. So I ask, why shouldn’t we secure the border, even militarily? Why shouldn’t we stop this influx of criminals? How about preventing the entry of terrorists? These are completely rational reasons to secure the border, yet anyone advocating we do so is inevitably labeled a racist hate-monger by someone.