2015-07~07
http://www.thaivisa.com/forum/topic/839145-thais-in-turkey-warned-of-violence-following-attack-against-consular-office/

Thais in Turkey warned of violence following attack against consular office - Thailand News - Thailand Forum
You currently have javascript disabled. Several functions may not work. Please re-enable javascript to access full functionality.
Thais in Turkey warned of violence following attack against consular office
The Nation BANGKOK: -- The Thai embassy in Turkey issued an urgent warning to about 1,300 Thais in the country to be careful and monitor news from the embassy closely after protesting Turkish people stormed in and damaged property of the Thai consular office in Istanbul.
The embassy based in Ankara posted a message on its Facebook wall that the protesters stormed in at midnight Wednesday.
It was reported that the protesters were angry that the Thai government repatriated Uighurs back to China.
The embassy said so far no Thais have been injured in the incident.
Source: http://www.nationmul...c-30264077.html
-- The Nation 2015-07-09
Group protesting Uighur Turks' extradition to China attacks Thailand consulate in Istanbul
DAILY SABAH
ISTANBULISTANBUL: -- A group of protesters attacked Thailand consulate located in Istanbul's Şişli district late on Wednesday to denounce Thailand's decision to extradite Uighur Turks to China.
The group gathered in front of the consulate to make a press statement around 11.00 p.m. local time but after the statement the protest turned violent as the crowd broke into the consulate building, smashed the windows and lowered the country's flag.
A number of security forces have been deployed to the area and dispersed the group.
The Uighur ethnic group, which constitutes around 45 percent of the population of Xinjiang, a Chinese autonomous region, has accused China of carrying out repressive policies that restrain their religious, commercial and cultural activities.Full story: http://www.dailysaba...ate-in-istanbul-- DAILY SABAH TURKEY 2015-07-09
The Thai government is now bending over for China just as they did for the US when they were bombing Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia. They sent nationals of those respective countries back to their country of origin to uncertain futures and possible death, splitting inter racial families in the process. Now the Uighur are made to suffer for Thailand's 'interests'. Disgusting country with neither principle nor soul. 
I thought they were protesting the closure of the somtam shops in Istanbul. Silly me! 
I thought they were protesting the closure of the somtam shops in Istanbul. Silly me! 
And the first winner of inane post goes to ..
Didn't they announce a few days ago (in another newspaper) that they were being sent to Turkey?
By consistently not "doing the right thing" Thais will work themselves into fix after fix.
Thais in Turkey warned after Uighurs repatriation protest turns violentBANGKOK: -- Thai embassy in Ankara today warned Thais in Turkey to be careful and closly monitor news from the embassy after some protesting Turkish people broke in and damaged the property of the Thai consular office in Istanbul.
The warning through the social media was posted on the embassy’s Facebook wall after Turkish protesters stormed in the office at midnight Wednesday.
It was reported that the protesters were angry that the Thai government repatriated Uighurs back to China.
But the embassy said so far no Thais have been injured in the incide.
However the Thai honorary consulate-general in Istanbul was closed today after being attacked by a group of Turkish people protesting about Thailand’s handling of ethnic Uighurs.
According to Turkish local news media, the daily Sabah, protesters broke into the consulate to denounce an unconfirmed report on Thailand’s decision to extradite Uighur refugees to China.
The daily reported that the group gathered in front of the consulate to make a press statement around 11 pm local time (about 3 am Thai time).
Then the protest turned violent and the crowd broke into the consulate building, smashed the windows and lowered the Thai flag. Security authorities later dispersed the group.
The Thai embassy said about 1,300 Thai people are living in Turkey.
Source: http://englishnews.t...t-turns-violent
 
I thought they were protesting the closure of the somtam shops in Istanbul. Silly me! 
And the first winner of inane post goes to ..
And the award for the poster with no sense of humour goes to......
Warning issued for Thais in Turkey after violence flares over Uighur dispute
BANGKOK, 9 July 2015 (NNT) – Thai citizens in Turkey have been urged to be cautious of their safety following a vandalism of the Thai Consulate-General in Istanbul stemming from certain groups’ dissatisfaction with Thailand’s handling of Uighur Muslim refugees.
A Facebook message was recently posted by the Royal Thai Embassy in Turkey to report an intrusion on the Thai Consulate-General in Istanbul on Wednesday night that resulted in property damages. The attack is believed to have been staged by a group of people who were outraged by the Thai government’s previous decision to deport Uighur asylum seekers back to China.
Due to the incident, the Thai Consulate-General in Istanbul will be temporarily closed for today. Thai citizens in Turkey are also encouraged to exercise more caution for their own safety during this period and avoid any conversation regarding the issue while closely monitoring related developments.
Constant updates are being provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Twitter @MFAThai. At present, there are reportedly about 1,300 Thais in Turkey. So far, all of them have been safe and can still go on with their everyday lives normally.
-- NNT 2015-07-09


The Thai government is now bending over for China just as they did for the US when they were bombing Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia. They sent nationals of those respective countries back to their country of origin to uncertain futures and possible death, splitting inter racial families in the process. Now the Uighur are made to suffer for Thailand's 'interests'. Disgusting country with neither principle nor soul. 
a protest under the benevolent glance of the Islamic-conservative government of Ahmet Davutoğlu
Now you see if only Thailand had a sub, they could use the modern day version of the old British Gun Boat Diplomacy.
Submarine Diplomacy, don't know why but it brings all sorts of strange images to mind, which seem rather fitting to Thailand.
Yes, I know, I should seek professional help :-)
British and french Gun Boat Diplomacy have made  damage in Thailand in the past.These two countries use this type of threat to deprive Siam of large part of his territory
Preah vihar is a good example of French colonial expansionism politics who affect relation with Cambodia in modern age
Thailand clarifies its Uighur repatriation processBANGKOK: -- Thailand today clarified that the repatriation of Uighur immigrants back to China was in compliance with humanitarian procedures and safety rules.The clarification came from government deputy spokesman Maj Gen Virachon Sukonthapatipak following last night attack on the Thai consular office in Istanbul by angry Turkish protesters accusing Thailand of forced repatriation of Uighur Muslims back to China.The deputy spokesperson said Thailand has followed international practices in the repatriation and in compliance with the repatriation procedures and rules that require verification of the nationality of the illegal immigrant.He said the repatriation of Uighur Muslims back to China was done after they were verified of their nationalities.He said verification revealed 172 are Turkish and they were repatriated back to Turkey.Another 90 immigrants were verified to be Chinese and they were sent back to China, he said.But he assured that those sent back to China was done under agreement that they must be ensured of their safety and treated under humanitarian rules.He admitted that the incident might come from pressure by the Uighur immigrants.He added that there are still a number of Uighur immigrants awaiting verification of their nationalities in the country, and the Foreign Ministry will clarify the people and the international communities on the issue.
"Another 90 immigrants were verified to be Chinese and they were sent back to China"
Although Thailand is not a signatory to the UN Convention for Refugees, the above statement indicates refoulement thus contravening human rights obligations.
The Thai government is now bending over for China just as they did for the US when they were bombing Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia. They sent nationals of those respective countries back to their country of origin to uncertain futures and possible death, splitting inter racial families in the process. Now the Uighur are made to suffer for Thailand's 'interests'. Disgusting country with neither principle nor soul. 
"But he assured that those sent back to China was done under agreement that they must be ensured of their safety and treated under humanitarian rules."
Yeah, right, because China's record on respecting human rights is so good.
Now you see if only Thailand had a sub, they could use the modern day version of the old British Gun Boat Diplomacy.
Submarine Diplomacy, don't know why but it brings all sorts of strange images to mind, which seem rather fitting to Thailand.
Yes, I know, I should seek professional help :-)
British and french Gun Boat Diplomacy have made  damage in Thailand in the past.These two countries use this type of threat to deprive Siam of large part of his territory
Preah vihar is a good example of French colonial expansionism politics who affect relation with Cambodia in modern age
The violence in the Souith was caused by Thailand "annexing" the land. Since then, they keep trying to convert the Muslims to Buddhism. It is EXACTLY the same problem in Burma -- annexed lands, non-Buddhists being treated a stateless people on land their families have lived ion for many generations....  The junta must be paying you for posting..
Removed some nationality, religion, and personal attacks. Going to remove problem posters next.
Activists slam Thailand's repatriation of Uighurs to China
THANYARAT DOKSONE, Associated PressBANGKOK (AP) — Thailand deported more than 100 ethnic Uighurs back to China on Thursday, ignoring calls from the international community to protect the group and ensure they were not forced back to face possible persecution by the Chinese government.
Deputy government spokesman Maj. Gen. Verachon Sukhonthapatipak said that Thailand had assurances from Chinese authorities that "their safety is guaranteed." He said the group of 109 Uighurs had been in Thailand for over a year, along with others who had arrived in waves claiming to be Turkish. Thai authorities sought to verify all of their nationalities before relocating them, he said.
"We found that about 170 of them were Turkish, so they were recently sent to Turkey," he said. "And about 100 were Chinese, so they were sent to China as of this morning, under the agreement that their safety is guaranteed according to humanitarian principles."
The Uighurs are a Turkik-speaking Muslim minority in China's far west Xinjiang region. The group has complained of cultural and religious suppression as well as economic marginalization under Chinese rule.
In Istanbul, the Thai Consulate General was closed on Thursday after a group of protesters broke into and vandalized the office.
The protesters waved Uighur flags and brought down the Thai flag, smashed windows and demolished pictures and furniture inside the consulate. Police allowed about 100 protesters to pray outside the consulate before taking nine of them away for questioning.
The Thai Embassy issued a statement urging its nationals in Turkey to be on alert for "an expression of dissatisfaction over Thailand's handling of the Uighurs who entered the country illegally."
It also advised tour guides against using the Thai flag while traveling in Turkey and urged the Thais to avoid any protest areas.
China has accused Uighur separatists of terrorism in Xinjiang, where ethnic violence has left hundreds of people dead over the past two years. Last year, Chinese authorities blamed a group of eight Uighurs for a knife attack that killed 31 people at a train station in the southwestern city of Kunming, after the suspects failed to flee the country. Three men caught before the attack were sentenced to death.
New York-based Human Rights Watch called Thailand's repatriation of Uighurs an "outrageous rights abuse" and criticized the Thai government for "forcing (the Uighurs) back to China against their will."
"For reasons of realpolitik, Bangkok callously treated these Uighurs as expendable pawns to be sacrificed to big brother China in clear violation of international rights standards," said Phil Robertson, the group's Asia Division deputy director.
He said the Thai government "broke numerous promises made over the past year to visiting senior officials from the UNHCR and other governments that the Uighurs would not be sent back into harm's way."
The World Uyghur Congress, a German-based advocacy group, said that those repatriated could face criminal charges and harsh punishment, possibly execution, under China's opaque legal system — the reasons they fled China in the first place.
___
Associated Press writers Didi Tang in Beijing and Suzan Fraser in Ankara, Turkey, contributed to this report.
The violence in the Souith was caused by Thailand "annexing" the land. Since then, they keep trying to convert the Muslims to Buddhism. It is EXACTLY the same problem in Burma -- annexed lands, non-Buddhists being treated a stateless people on land their families have lived ion for many generations....  The junta must be paying you for posting..
As Muslims in Thailand have Thai citizenship (whether they want it or not) how is it EXACTLY the same as Burma? 
I would have thought attempting to convert muslims to buddhism as a rather dangerous enterprise for all concerned, given that faiths teachings on the subject.
 
(1) If you live in Thailand and write these  kinds of bad things about the Country, feel free to leave and go back to where ever you were last happy !!
(2) As for the break in, Islam is a largely violent culture, and this is the only way some know how to behave.   
Now you see if only Thailand had a sub, they could use the modern day version of the old British Gun Boat Diplomacy.
Submarine Diplomacy, don't know why but it brings all sorts of strange images to mind, which seem rather fitting to Thailand.
Yes, I know, I should seek professional help :-)
British and french Gun Boat Diplomacy have made  damage in Thailand in the past.These two countries use this type of threat to deprive Siam of large part of his territory
Preah vihar is a good example of French colonial expansionism politics who affect relation with Cambodia in modern age
The violence in the Souith was caused by Thailand "annexing" the land. Since then, they keep trying to convert the Muslims to Buddhism. It is EXACTLY the same problem in Burma -- annexed lands, non-Buddhists being treated a stateless people on land their families have lived ion for many generations....  The junta must be paying you for posting..
How exactly does Thailand try to convert Muslims to Buddhism? do you have any facts?
this normal leftist way of thinking - if you are not agree with me somebody is paying you for this.
"The Siamese government transfers to the British government all rights of suzerainty, protection, administration and control whatsoever which they possess over the states of Kelantan,Tringganu, Kedah, Perlis, and adjacent islands. The frontiers of these territories are defined by the boundary protocol annexed hereto.”
The Siamese agreed to cede Laos to France, after Franco-Siamese war in 1983, significantly expanding French Indochina.
Burmese Muslims migrated to Burma from Bengal primarily during the period of British rule in Burma, and to a lesser extent, after the Burmese independence in 1948 and Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971.
but leftists like you would say anything in order to support any insurgent against any state. because left ideology always support person vs state, notwithstanding what this person does.
if you are so kind, why don't you invite Uygurs, Rohyngya and other migrants to your wonderful Western welfare states? Everybody will be so happy!
 