2015-07~07
http://indianpowersector.com/2015/07/ep-shanghai-electrical-shanghai-2015-joyously-welcome-world-renown-new-exhibitors-participation-which-set-a-new-record-for-the-show-scale/

EP Shanghai & Electrical Shanghai 2015 Joyously welcome world-renown new exhibitors’ participation which set a new record for the show scale | Indian Power Sector.com
In recent years, the Chinese government has been paying efforts in promoting electric power market reform and introduced more competitions by breaking up monopolies. The formation of this new market aspect will bring along new opportunities to the industry. In the meantime, the Chinese government endeavored to develop smart grid and promote energy conservation. These have all become the hotspot of the industry, and the spotlight of this year’s exhibition.
“EP Shanghai 2015”, “Electrical Shanghai 2015”, “2015 International Exhibition on Electric Power Automation Equipment and Technology (EPA 2015)” and the “2015 China International Exhibition on Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Equipment and Technology (ECEP)” will be focusing on One-stop Solution on Power Transmission and Distribution, Electric Power Automation, Smart Grid, Energy Conservation & Environmental Protection and Electric Power Engineering Quality. The show will take place under the theme “Specialized, Professional, Business Opportunities” at the Shanghai World Expo Exhibition & Convention Centre on 14th-16th October, 2015. The estimated exhibition space of the show will be expanded to 35,000 sq.m. with 900 international exhibitors. EP Shanghai 2015 will be once again supported by the U.S. Embassy – Commercial Service, German Pavilion, Taiwan Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers’ Association Pavilion and the new companions from Commercial Department of The Czech Republic and the Ministry of Energy of the Russian Federation, forming the most internationalized electric power exhibition in China. More than 20 seminars and conferences with the hottest topics on Electric Power Automation, Smart Grid, Energy Conservation & Environmental Protection, Power Quality and Electric Power Engineering Control will also be held concurrently to bring more market opportunities and latest technology to the electric power industry.
New and existing Exhibitors targeting business opportunities which allied to take part eagerly
The exhibition this year was not only unaffected by the economic slowdown, but numerous new exhibitors also joined enthusiastically. Together with the existing exhibitors’ participation, the scale will hopefully set a new high this year to continue in becoming the largest and internationalized electric expo in China with global well-known participants.
Natus’s headquarters were located at Germany’s Trier in 1956 and China’s Changzhou as a joint venture. With more than a thousand employees and 50 thousands sq.m. factories, Natus’s products include medium and low voltage power distribution equipment and one-stop solution for electric power industry. Focusing on industrial and electric power equipment’s research and manufacture, massive patents were gained worldwide by Natus with high reputation in Europe, Africa, North-America and Asia-Pacific regions. Furthermore, 24 hour hotline and network technical service platform are provided for the global sales network and market. Being an expert in the brand’s high and low voltage products and the field of safe power distribution, Natus continues to provide innovative solution and integrated services to customers.
FlexNet by Sensus is a superior communications platform for smart metering and smart grid applications for all utilities who demand unmatched customer service and intelligent use of their resources. Features include high coverage to 20KM; high capacity to 500 thousands terminals per station; high level of security with AES256 encryption technology and high successful rate on first time deployment and meter reading.
Qingdao TGOOD Electric is one of the top manufacturers for medium voltage vacuum switchgear worldwide. Twenty years before, the company is the first to introduced permanent magnetic mechanism in the field of vacuum circuit breakers.
The main business of TGOOD is to develop and manufacture the primary and secondary products for power distribution and transmission in 220kV or below voltage and related technical services; fund-raising service for electric power equipment rental and related services; research, development and installation of automobile recharge system, equipment and recharging service; procurement, sales, rental, maintenance and related services for electric automobile. A more completed production line has been formed for power distribution and transmission equipment in providing supportive products for the core energy industry.
CYG was established by Chinese Academy of Sciences and being the leading professional manufacturer of radiant functional material and development of smart grid equipment. It is a preeminent global brand of heat-shrink tube, smart mobile phone battery saver, lithium battery electrolyte additive, composite insulator and expert of anticorrosion, bus-bar protection, electric power accessories and power error prevention in China. CYG will be exhibited as a whole group for the first-time with latest equipment and technology for smart grid equipment, circuit protection, heat shrink products and power cable accessories.
Tebian is the core enterprise on world-class energy industry problem-solution service provider. Company focuses on five industrial aspects including energy, high-end transmission and distribution manufactures, power system integrated solution, new energy and new materials. Company also ranks 317th in world’s top 500 enterprises of machinery, 10th in Chinese top 100 enterprises of machinery and 1st in Chinese top 100 enterprises of transformer.
Being the large domestic innovative enterprise in Xinjiang, Tebian contributes it effort to the global energy industry with systematic solution and the remarkable development of the economy.
To save your time and effort, Pre-register now for a free copy of show catalogue at http://epchinashow.com/EP15/Visitors/lang-eng/PreReg.aspx
For more information of the fair, please feel free to contact Adsale Exhibition Services Ltd or visit the fair website at: www.EPChinaShow.com
EP China / EP Shanghai, jointly organized by China Electricity Council and Adsale Exhibition Services Ltd., are held in Beijing and Shanghai rotationally. Since its launch in 1986, EP exhibitions are recognized as the largest and the most reputable electric power and electrical exhibition in China, extensively supported by major power group corporations and power grid corporations of China. It is also the only electric power event in China that is endorsed as a UFI Approved Event.
Should this release be published, please kindly send us a copy for record.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Nine stalled gas-based plants now to generate 7 billion units of electricity
New price formula is boon for oil & gas sector; ONGC, RIL top bets
Indo-Bangla Friendship: Rail consignment of high Speed Diesel flagged off by Dharmendra Pradhan
Policy Implementation is the real challenge for RE-power in India : Mr. Sankalp Ved
MNRE announces allocation of Central Grant of Rs. 4750 Cr. to States / UTs against scheme for Unemployed Youths and Farmers
What went wrong with L & T’s Rajpura Thermal project ?