2015-07~07
http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/thai-embassy-closed-in-turkey-after-protest-over-uighurs-115071000480_1.html

Thai embassy closed in Turkey after protest over Uighurs | Business Standard News


 AFP  | 
 Bangkok  

July 10, 2015 Last Updated at 14:28 IST


 Thailand today closed its embassy and consulate in Turkey after a protest against the kingdom's deportation of Uighur Muslims to China, as the US warned the minority could face "harsh treatment" on their return. The temporary closure of Thailand's embassy in Ankara and consulate in Istanbul comes after anti-Chinese demonstrators stormed the latter, damaging furnishings and pulling down the sign outside. It was the latest protest in Turkey over the treatment of the Turkic-speaking, largely Muslim minority in China's northwestern Xinjiang region, where Uighurs say they face cultural and religious repression. Scores are believed to have fled the restive area in recent years, sometimes travelling through Southeast Asia in hope of resettling in Turkey. In Thailand the fate of some 400 Uighurs had been shrouded in uncertainty since March 2014 when they were detained for illegal entry while authorities verified their nationalities amid a tussle between Turkey and China over where they should be moved. The junta-ruled kingdom revealed yesterday that around 100 Uighurs were deported to China on Wednesday, while an earlier group of 172 women and children were sent to Turkey in late June. News of the sudden China deportations sparked international condemnation including from the United States, rights groups and the UN as well as the Istanbul protest. In Bangkok, Thai government spokesman Werachon Sukhondhapatipak told reporters today that "the government has ordered the Thai embassy and consulate to close temporarily today". "We will assess the situation on a daily basis," he said, adding all was currently under control with no Thai nationals affected, while citizens had been warned to remain on alert. According to a Turkish news agency, an Asian tourist was attacked by pro-Uighur protesters in Ankara yesterday as they thought she was Chinese. Responding to criticism over the China deportations, Werachon said that high-level Thai officials would travel to the country next week to follow-up on the returned group. Uighurs in Xinjiang, who number around 10 million, have long said they face discrimination. More recently China has launched a wide-ranging crackdown in the region in response to rising violence which authorities blame on Islamist separatists.
TN, Puducherry are home to about 36,000 showrooms, jewellery sector has about 8-10 lakh employees
However, inflows remain robust in despite a 6.5% crack in key stock indices
Copyrights © 2015 Business Standard Private Ltd. All rights reserved.