2015-07~07
http://www.aljazeera.com/news/2015/07/china-uighur-problem-turkey-protests-150706091424395.html

China says no 'Uighur problem' after Turkey protests - Al Jazeera English
Meet the refugees who fled Syria for the Gaza Strip
06 Jul 2015 11:31 GMT | Politics, Asia Pacific, Middle East, China, Turkey
China has no "ethnic problem" in its far west, and Muslim Uighur minorities there enjoy freedom of religion, the country's foreign ministry has said, following anti-China protests in Turkey over Beijing's treatment of the group.
"Uighurs live and work in peace and contentment and enjoy freedom of religion under the rules in the constitution," Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters at a regular briefing on Monday.
"So the so-called 'Xinjiang ethnic problem' you mentioned that has been raised in some reports simply does not exist."
Relations between China and Turkey have worsened over Beijing's policies towards the Uighur people, whose traditional home is in the far western region of Xinjiang.
Many Turks see themselves as sharing religious and cultural ties with Uighurs, who have reportedly been banned from worship and fasting during the holy month of Ramadan.
Turkey vowed last week to keep its doors open to Uighur migrants fleeing persecution in China. Turkey has also irked China by expressing concern over the reports of restrictions on Uighurs during Ramadan.
Hundreds of protesters marched on the Chinese consulate in Istanbul on Sunday, bearing flags and chanting anti-China slogans outside the building.
Beijing warned on Sunday its citizens travelling in Turkey to be careful of anti-China protests, saying some tourists have recently been "attacked and disturbed".
The notice, posted on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on Sunday, said there had been "multiple" demonstrations in Turkey targeting the Chinese government.
"Absolutely do not get close to or film the protests, and minimise to the greatest extent outside activities on one's own," the Chinese notice said.
Hundreds of people have been killed over the past three years in a series of attacks in Xinjiang. Beijing has blamed the attacks on fighters who seek to form an independent state called East Turkestan.
Civil servants, students and teachers prevented from fasting and restaurants ordered to remain open in Xinjiang region.
Follow the story of exiled Uighur Muslims of Central Asia, many of whom fled Chinese control of their land in 1949.

 Content on this website is for general information purposes only. Your comments
 are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct
 or indirect liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and
 global license for no consideration to use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in
 accordance with Community Rules & Guidelines and Terms and Conditions.

During the first two weeks of March, at least 1,428 were arrested for breaching Hungary's border fence with Serbia.
As Obama prepares to visit, questions remain over whether the embargo will be lifted and the future of Guantanamo Bay.
Are memes calling the Irish "the first slaves" an attempt to derail conversations about slavery and modern-day racism?
Palestinian American Farouk Shami is an associate who says the Republican candidate would make a "great president".
Civil servants, students and teachers prevented from fasting and restaurants ordered to remain open in Xinjiang region.
Follow the story of exiled Uighur Muslims of Central Asia, many of whom fled Chinese control of their land in 1949.
But US president acknowledges "significant differences" on human rights and civil liberties amid one-party state rule.
Pyongyang says it launched five "missiles" into Sea of Japan amid widespread concerns about its nuclear programme.
Latin American migrants risk life and limb to reach the US border in search of the American dream.
The incredible story of 18 cows that became Israel's most wanted fugitives and symbols of Palestinian resistance.
Five years after the revolution, Tunisia's black minority has yet to experience the freedoms enjoyed by other citizens.