2015-07~07
http://www.worldbulletin.net/media/161983/turkish-press-review-on-july-10

TURKISH PRESS REVIEW ON JULY 10 | Media | Worldbulletin News
 Anadolu Agency has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.
Newspapers on Friday mainly covered Turkey’s new government formation process after President Recep Tayyip Erdogan asked Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu to form an administration on Thursday.
Davutoglu now has 45 days to form a government around the Justice and Development (AK) Party, which gained the largest share of parliamentary seats in the June 7 general election.
Although the party came first, it did not win enough seats to form a majority government so must attempt to forge a coalition with the three other parties in parliament – the second-placed Republican People’s Party (CHP), the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) and the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP).
“First round starts Monday,” was MILLIYET’s headline, reporting that the Turkish PM will meet firstly with CHP leader Kemal Kilicdaroglu as part of his talks with political party leaders.
According to the newspaper, the first round of the meetings are “kindness” talks while “principles” underpinning a coalition will be discussed in detail during the second round which will be held following Eid al-Fitr celebrations, held to mark the end of Ramadan.
HURRIYET said Davutoglu was asked to form a government 21 days after election results were announced on June 18.
“Let’s meet without precondition,” was HABERTURK’s headline, quoting Davutoglu who said: “We should begin meetings without any precondition [or] prejudice. I believe we can meet with the party leaders without any psychological barrier.”
“Last 45 days,” was STAR’s headline, referring to a deadline to form a government, while AKSAM wrote: “Coalition race begins.”
STAR also covered Erdogan’s remarks in which he warned Turkish citizens to be watchful against “provocateurs” ahead his planned visit to China on July 28.
In mid-June, it was widely reported that China had banned Ramadan fasting in parts of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region for party members, civil servants, students and teachers.
The news led thousands of people to take to streets all over Turkey to protest. In some cases Turkish nationalists attacked Asian tourists, according to local media.
The newspaper quoted Erdogan as saying: “We are with the Uighur Turks population. But these events [attacks] are neither worthy for us, nor benefits Uighur Turks.”
China blamed the protests on "false news by foreign media”, saying that the allegations of a fasting ban did not reflect the truth.
In other news, Turkish dailies also covered the death of the county’s last 1980 coup general, Tahsin Sahinkaya.
“Last general of 12 September dies,” said MILLIYET, referring to the date of bloody 1980 coup.
Former Air Force General Tahsin Sahinkaya passed away on Thursday due to organ failure at the GATA Haydarpasa Research Hospital, Istanbul.
Sahinkaya will be buried in Istanbul’s Karacaahmet Cemetery following a funeral ceremony at Selimiye Mosque on Saturday. A military ceremony will also be held on the same day at Istanbul’s army headquarters.
He was one of the five leaders of the 1980 military coup, which became known as one of the most violent military interventions in Turkey's history, claiming hundreds of lives.
“12 September’s last general gone,” wrote HABERTURK, reporting that Sahinkaya was on Time magazine’s “richest 50 general list”.
In economics news, DUNYA reported on Turkey’s ship-dismantling sector. According to the daily, Turkish industry representatives are eyeing lucrative EU contracts to break up 1.5 million tons of decommissioned ships. Turkey’s rivals in the sector are China, India and Pakistan, reported the newspaper.
'As long as our nation keeps strong our unity, togetherness and solidarity, [we can prevail over terrorism],' Turkish president says
Turkish dailies on Monday reported the identity of the suicide bomber who blew himself up on Istanbul's Istiklal Street
At least 164 people have been held over unauthorised Nevruz demonstrations on Sunday in Istanbul
Turkish president expresses his sorrow over deaths of Israeli and Iranian citizens in Saturday's Istanbul suicide attack
Turkish president says Assad committed state terrorism and must be tried at the International Criminal Court
Turkish president also accuses European Union of being insincere in Turkey's accession process
Turkish FM also calls Belgium counterpart to convey Turkey’s objections to allowing PKK supporters pitch tents in Brussels near EU-Turkey summit venue
Turkish president also slams Belgian government for allowing PKK supporters in Brussels to pitch tents near EU-Turkey summit
Ankara public prosecutor asks Justice Ministry to request Interpol red notice for 47 PKK terrorists, including senior figures
'The attacker has been formally identified' as an ISIL member
Reports suggest ISIL extremists are suspected of being behind the latest attack which targeted Istiklal Caddesi
Victims of the attack are memorialized with carnations; defiant signs go up saying, 'We are not afraid'
Turkish ambassador to the US Serdar Kilic accepts the award on behalf of the Turkish government and people
NATO and EU states also express solidarity with Turkey in aftermath of attack on Istiklal Street
Of the 36 people injured in this mornings suicide bomb in Istiklal Street, 12 of them have been established to be foreigners.
Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu's remarks come during joint press conference with his Iranian counterpart Zarif in Istanbul
Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

UN sees need for space travel rules within 5 years

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
