2015-07~07
http://ewn.co.za/2015/07/06/Turkeys-antiChina-protests-gains-momentum

Turkey stands with Uighurs, anti-Chinese protests held
Sending failed. It's possible that the address you are trying to mail is unsubscribed from EWN mailers.
Protests are against the treatment of Chinese Muslims who are banned from praying & fasting during Ramadan.

BEIJING/ISTANBUL - Relations between Turkey and China have been strained recently over the treatment of Muslim Uighur people in China's far western region of Xinjiang, who have reportedly had been banned from worship and fasting during the holy month of Ramadan.

China's treatment of the Uighurs is an important issue for many Turks, who see themselves as sharing a common cultural and religious background.

Turkey vowed on Friday to keep its doors open to ethnic Uighurs fleeing persecution.

On Sunday in Istanbul, several hundred protesters marched towards the Chinese consulate carrying flags and chanting anti-China slogans outside the building, located towards the end of a leafy uphill road from the coast of the Bosphorus strait.

Earlier in the day, some of the protesters had burned a Chinese flag.

"They (the Uighurs) are our brothers and are being persecuted for their faith. They did nothing wrong, their only fault is to be Muslim," said 17-year old Muhammet Gokce who was wearing a blue head band with the words "East Turkestan you are not alone".

"Turkey should embrace its brothers, should save them from the brutal hands of communist China."

Meanwhile, Turkish daily Hurriyet reported a small group of people last week attacked a Chinese restaurant in Istanbul's touristy Tophane district, smashing windows.

China had warned its citizens travelling to Turkey to be careful of the protests, saying some Chinese tourists have been "attacked and disturbed".

The notice, posted on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on Sunday, said there had been "multiple" demonstrations in Turkey targeting the Chinese government.

"Absolutely do not get close to or film the protests, and minimize to the greatest extent outside activities on one's own," the Chinese notice said.


 EWN welcomes all comments that are constructive, contribute to discussions in a meaningful manner and take stories forward.

 However, we will NOT condone the following:

 - Racism (including offensive comments based on ethnicity and nationality)
 - Sexism
 - Homophobia
 - Religious intolerance
 - Cyber bullying
 - Hate speech
 - Derogatory language
 - Comments inciting violence.

 We ask that your comments remain relevant to the articles they appear on and do not include general banter or conversation as this dilutes the effectiveness of the comments section.

 We strive to make the EWN community a safe and welcoming space for all.

 EWN reserves the right to: 1) remove any comments that do not follow the above guidelines; and, 2) ban users who repeatedly infringe the rules.
 
 Should you find any comments upsetting or offensive you can also flag them and we will assess it against our guidelines.
 
 EWN is constantly reviewing its comments policy in order to create an environment conducive to constructive conversations.
