2015-07~07
http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/epaper/2015-07/01/content_21152995.htm

Tourism trumps terrorism|Life|chinadaily.com.cn
The Belt and Road Initiative is revitalizing Xinjiang's travel industry after extremist attacks cast a pall over the sector. Cui Jia and Erik Nilsson report in Urumqi.
Fun is fighting fear in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region.
Xinjiang's tourism, which crashed in 2014 because of terrorist attacks, has begun to recover this year, the regional tourism bureau says. It had fallen 40 percent between May 2013 and May 2014.
More than 7.2 million domestic travelers visited Xinjiang in the first three months of 2015, representing a 9 percent year-on-year increase. The region also attracted 256,300 foreign tourists during the period.
Visits to Xinjiang during this year's three-day May Day holiday increased more than 11 percent year-on-year, the bureau's figures show. Xinhua News Agency reports many Xinjiang destinations enjoyed a 30 percent annual increase during the three-day Dragon Boat Festival in early June. The Ili Kazak autonomous prefecture's government reported an 80 percent year-on-year surge during the Dragon Boat holiday.
Xinjiang, during the first four months of last year, tried to buoy the industry by introducing 500 yuan ($80) coupons for shopping, hotels and attractions for group travelers from 19 provinces. The dispersed vouchers' total value was 20 million yuan, media quote the region's government as saying.
Despite a spike around the Lunar New Year, the first quarter is tourism's low season in the autonomous region and the country.
Xinjiang will especially focus on promoting tourism in its southern swath - a vital ancient Silk Road artery - that today hosts traditional ethnic Uygur culture. Southern Xinjiang endured the most difficulty luring guests last year because most attacks happened there.
Visits to southern Xinjiang's Tashi Kuergan Tajik autonomous county in Kashgar prefecture increased from January through May by 13 percent year-on-year. About 110,500 visits generated 14 million yuan, an 11 percent spending increase.
The county is applying for a national-level tourism status and constructing new attractions. It's also building a new airport, rail lines and highways as part of the enhanced transportation central to the Belt and Road Initiative to reincarnate ancient Silk Road networks.
Xinjiang's tourism's recovery has been accelerated by the fact the China National Tourism Administration has declared 2015 the Year of Silk Road Travel under the initiative. The country's westernmost region contains perhaps the grandest constellation of the ancient network's nexuses.
Xinjiang also started work on a Silk Road Economic Belt tourism-service center on April 30. The center, which will become operational in three years, will provide travelers with information about, and services for, all attractions in the autonomous region and other countries on the belt.
President Xi Jinping in 2013 proposed the trade belt's creation to enhance economic integration along the ancient route, extending via Xinjiang through Central Asia to Europe.
China's westernmost region borders eight nations. The tourism bureau plans to increase cooperation with such neighboring countries as Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Mongolia.
This would enable visitors from, or traveling through, Xinjiang to more easily extend their trips through belt countries.
Guests at the China-Kazakhstan international border cooperation center's namesake countries from Xinjiang's border city of Horgos can enter the center, built half in China and half in Kazakhstan, with just their national IDs. Chinese and Kazaks previously had to apply for permits from their hometowns' border police.
While citizens of the two countries can enter the transnational free-trade center, which officially opened in 2012, without visas, others may need passports.
Besides shopping and trading goods, many guests snap selfies while standing on either side of - or, better yet, straddling - the blue line beneath a gateway that marks the border.
The Chinese side is a hive of shipping containers and dealers adding to, and subtracting from, heaps of wholesale goods in the shadows of modern multistory buildings.
Kazakhstan's side is a humbler huddle of tents, largely yurts, vending snacks, beverages and handicrafts from the country to Chinese tourists.
It aspires to optimize upon the growing inflow of Chinese.
Tourism's slowdown was the main contributor to Xinjiang's failure to reach its 2014 GDP growth target of 11 percent, the regional development and reform committee says. But it still reached 10 percent, exceeding the 7.4 percent national average, it says.
Tourism is expected to enhance employment and incomes. The regional government believes employment is integral to stability.
The labor-intensive sector, which has a low market-entry threshold, is generating many jobs for locals, the region's tourism bureau says.
Xinjiang's 1,180 home inns provide about 12,000 jobs for farmers and herdsmen, the government reports.
It seems recent events in the autonomous region have shown, yes, terrorism can diminish tourism.
The industry brings jobs that bring economic stability that, in turn, brings more tourism.
The complete circuit - positively charged - helps short out extremism.
In Xinjiang, tourism's current electromagnetism is flowing toward the positive rather than the negative.
Top: Local Uygur women greet visitors with dancing and singing in Turpan, in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region. Above left: The Flaming Mountain is popular among tourists because of its rare red sandstone. Above right: Traditional activities, such as the goatsnatching competition, remain an important part of local life. Photos Provided To China Daily