2015-07~07
http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/editorial/12-Jul-2015/deportation-controversy

Deportation controversy  
After coming under severe criticism by the international community, Thailand has rejected a request from Beijing to deport all Uighur Muslims held in detention camps to China. The fate of a group of Uighurs in Thailand had been in doubt after Thailand sentenced them for illegal entry to the country in 2014. The decision to put a moratorium on further deportations was taken two days after the forcible repatriation of nearly 100 Uighurs that sparked international criticism. The group comprised mostly men but included women and children. Thailand’s military government considers Uighurs from China as potential terrorists and a security risk to their government’s stability. To get rid of these unwanted guests, the Thai authorities forcibly deported them to China. The US and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) have criticised the Thai authorities’ action and strongly urged China to ensure proper treatment of the Uighurs. In China, Uighur Muslims of an Islamist separatist movement have launched a violent, terrorist movement. Hundreds, possibly thousands, of Uighurs have fled unrest in China's western Xinjiang region where hundreds of people have been killed by the terrorists, prompting a crackdown by the Chinese authorities.
The Chinese authorities accuse the Uighur Islamists of committing violence to establish an independent state. China's treatment of its Turkic language-speaking Uighur minority is a sensitive issue in Turkey as well. On its part, Turkey has vowed to keep its doors open to Uighurs fleeing persecution in China. This has created a diplomatic tussle among China, Thailand and Turkey. In Turkey, protesters stormed the Chinese and Thai consulates in Istanbul in protest against the controversial deportation. There are around 10 million Uighurs, who are counted among the 10 percent minorities in China, while about 90 percent are Han Chinese. The Uighurs face cultural and religious repression due to the violent activities of the extremists. In these circumstances, the moderate Uighurs are also caught up in the conflict unwittingly. China needs to mobilise those moderate Uighur Muslims who want peace and abhor violence, against the extremists. Such movements that use religion cannot be defeated through the use of force alone. Wisdom demands that China resolve the Uighur issue with a nuanced political strategy. Due to the international dimension of the issue, other Muslim states should also mediate to find a peaceful solution. Every member of the Uighur community cannot be termed a terrorist. The Chinese government needs to be more sensitive in its approach to deal with the Uighur problem. *

 Significant landmarks vanished from the skylines across Pakistan between 8:30 pm and 9:30 pm on ...

 The European Union (EU) and Turkey have finalised a controversial deal in a bid to mitigate the ...

 In the framework of match-scheduling, March 19 saw an impeccable move by the International Cricket ...