2015-07~07
http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/author/Shashank%20Joshi.aspx

All posts by shashank joshi
On 13 December, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe concluded a three-day visit to India, building on the public rapport that he had established with his counterpart, Narendra Modi, last year. The two leaders share conservative, nationalist, and at least rhetorically reformist leanings, while their respective states share a steadily growing concern over the implications of growing Chinese power and assertiveness.
No surprise, then, that the visit was replete with floral language — Modi hailing a 'truly historic' visit and Indian commentators reciting century-old Tagore verses extolling Japanese civilization — and a string of prominent deliverables. 
Three are worthy of elaboration. First, Japan offered US$12 billion of financing for investment in India – a smaller but surely more plausible sum than the US$20 billion committed to India by Xi Jinping last year — branded as part of Modi's pet 'Make in India' initiative. As part of the broader Japanese support for Indian infrastructure, Japan agreed to provide high-speed rail technology for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad route, providing a much-needed boost to Tokyo after it lost a US$5 billion Indonesian contract to China in October.
The devil will be in the implementation but, as Dhruva Jaishankar points out, 'this is beginning to emulate the scale of investment that allowed the Chinese and Southeast Asian economies to take off in the 1980s and 1990s'. Sanjaya Baru, advisor to Modi's predecessor Manmohan Singh, has gone as far as to suggest that 'Japan and India can build road and rail connectivity across the Eurasian landmass, running parallel to China's own One Belt, One Road (OBOR) project'. Emulation is utterly implausible, considering the vastly greater scale of Chinese resources and ambition. But it does raise the question of whether such cooperation might give India the confidence to resist signing on to OBOR, which is viewed by many Indian officials and analysts (though not all) as vaguely ominous.
Second, Japan and India reached broad agreement on civil nuclear cooperation after five years of wrangling. If some technical details are worked out, this will clear the way for American firms — which source key equipment in Japan – to sell nuclear reactors to India, bringing to fruition the process kicked off by President George W Bush over a decade ago. Commerce aside, this agreement is also symbolically important because Japan was one of India's most vocal critics after New Delhi's 1998 nuclear tests.
This is therefore part of India's bumpy, decade-long process of progressive nuclear rehabilitation (in which Australia's own nuclear deal with India has played a key part). Although a minor Italy-India spat has held up India's application to join the Missile Technology Control Regime, another relatively cosmetic mark of international nuclear respectability, the pattern is clear: India is leveraging its web of bilateral relationships (with the US, Japan, Australia, the UK and many others) to advance its broader effort to deepen its role in multilateral institutions.
Third, the security relationship took an important step forwards. This includes new linkages between the Indian and Japanese air forces and coast guards, Indian training for Japan's counter-terrorism capabilities and agreements to share classified military information. But the most significant aspect of this was probably India's decision to invite Japan as a 'formal partner' — presumably meaning permanent — to the US-India Malabar naval exercises (for background, see my earlier post for The Interpreter).
Given China's previous sensitivities to Japanese participation, and taken together with the India-Japan joint statement's prominent (and first-ever) mention of 'unilateral actions' in the South China Sea, the message to Beijing is unambiguous: its rivals will not be deterred from moving closer together to present a more coherent — though not quite collective — grouping that, albeit cautiously, will passively balance Chinese power.  This comes on top of the inaugural US-India-Japan trilateral at the foreign minister level in October and a US-India-Australia trilateral at a slightly lower level in June. While all these states disclaim any intention to contain China, their willingness to publicly raise shared concerns over Chinese behavior in joint settings is a highly significant trend. 
Finally, it is worth noting that Abe's visit to New Delhi comes at a moment of extraordinary diplomatic churn.
The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) was concluded on 5 October followed by the Paris Agreement on 12 December. India has watched these developments guardedly. Japan was central to the TTP but India was excluded (New Delhi has pushed for what would be a much less reform-intensive Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership instead). As for Paris, Indian analysts have greeted the deal with unenthusiastic caution. In both these areas, trade and climate change, India's fear has been that large powers will cut deals over its head, re-shaping the regional and global economic architecture in ways that will limit New Delhi's room for maneuver while the country is still at an early stage of its rise. To these economic issues we could add the problem of Afghanistan, where the US endorsed Chinese efforts to broker talks between Afghanistan on the one hand, and Pakistan and the Taliban on the other, leaving India increasingly isolated. 
In this broader context, Modi's Act East policy — of which the India-Japan relationship is a core strand — is important not just for boosting investment and signaling to China. It is also to strengthen India's voice in regional debates, whether on economic or security issues, such that India will be in a position to shape emerging economic and security architectures as they form, rather than accommodate to them afterwards. The dilemma is that this will pull India in directions it may not wish to go, at least not yet. As a recent RAND study noted, 'Southeast Asia sees India primarily as a security partner, while India primarily sees Southeast Asia as a trade partner'. This is exaggerated, but it gets the point across. The more that India accepts the garb of security partner, the more pivotal its role in Asia and its voice in debates. But greater, also, are the demands that will be made of it when crises erupt and countries expect solidarity from their partners.
US-India relations are in good shape. The personal relationship between Modi and Obama appears excellent, there are big, ambitious ideas in the pipeline – like US assistance to Indian carrier development – and the strategic dialogue is getting deeper in several ways.
But things are falling short in some ways. Next week, the US and Indian navies will meet in the Bay of Bengal for the Malabar exercise, a series that began 23 years ago and represents a powerful signal of convergence in the Indo-Pacific. Japan will join them, just weeks after a ministerial trilateral between the three countries included pointed reference to the South China Sea and regional stability. Malabar is not India’s only joint naval exercise, of course. The biennial Milan series brings together over a dozen small and middle powers, and smaller exercises – including the first ever Australia-India bilateral – are routine. The Indian Navy visited 40 countries in the past year, including Iran, Israel, and Saudi Arabia within two weeks of one another.
But Malabar is uniquely important: the US remains the most important naval power in the Indo-Pacific, and military-to-military cooperation has buttressed and driven broader strategic cooperation. A strong working relationship with the US Navy will give India more options in addressing (among other challenges) what is becoming a more persistent and intrusive Chinese presence in the Indian Ocean without tying New Delhi's hands in any way.
Yet if we take a broader perspective, we see that Malabar has lost some of the momentum it built up in the mid-2000s. I've compiled data from a variety of sources showing the rise and fall in the overall size of the exercise. The first chart below shows the number of ships and submarines by country while the second shows aircraft carriers.
The exercises have their origins in the early 1990s when, with the Cold War over, the US and India began to feel one another out tentatively. In 1991, Commander US Army Pacific, Lt General Claude Kicklighter, visited New Delhi. The relationship developed quickly. As Sunanda Datta-Ray wrote in the New York Times at the time, 'what seemed like a mild flirtation..may have blossomed into a full-fledged affair'. Army, navy, and air force 'steering groups' were established in 1992.
That same year, the US and Indian navies held exercises off the coast of Goa, on India's west coast. This was a modest affair. Two Indian ships, a destroyer and a frigate, each about half the displacement of one of India's modern Kolkata-class destroyers, practiced basic communications and manoeuvres with two American equivalents. Exercise Malabar, as it became known, was repeated twice more in the 1990s as the US-India relationship thawed further, despite tensions over issues like Indian missile testing. Although both sides avoided too much publicity, wary of Indian public opinion, by 1996 total ships participating in the exercise grew to six and the US even gave the Indians an opportunity to familiarise themselves with the P-3C maritime reconnaissance aircraft – to the chagrin of Pakistan, which took delivery of its own copies later that year, and then employed them during the Kargil War.
India's nuclear tests in 1998 cast a pall over this burgeoning defence engagement, and Malabar didn't resume until 2002. But in 2003, India brought a submarine for the first time, though not, as the US had hoped, the Kilo-class (also operated by Iran). In 2005, the year of major breakthroughs in the US-India relationship, each side bought carriers for the first time, and the exercises became more advanced, as former Indian naval officer Gurpreet Khurana sets out in an excellent paper. 
The real breakthrough, however, came in 2007, when Malabar was effectively held twice and – to China's great irritation – multilateralised, with the first part held off Okinawa with the participation of four Japanese ships (technically part of a separate exercise, but in practice enmeshed with the US-India effort), and the second part in the Bay of Bengal.
This latter phase included Japanese, Australian and Singaporean contributions, three carriers, US and Indian strike aircraft, and 26 ships in all, more than double those of any exercises in previous or subsequent years. This was part of a much broader deepening in the military-to-military relationship. 'More than half the military exercises the Indian Army has conducted since the US-led invasions of Iraq and Afghanistan,' noted one Indian publication in 2007, 'have been with the US Army'. A slew of major air force exercises had also taken place by then.
But 2007 also proved to be Malabar's high point, with the exercises dropping precipitously in size thereafter. 
In large part this was due to Indian concerns for Chinese sensitivities and a backlash by leftist parties in India. A 2009 cable from the US Embassy in New Delhi suggested that Defence Minister AK Antony had overruled the Indian Navy's preference for multilateral exercises. But the shift was also related to political changes in Tokyo and Canberra. 'After we stuck our neck out the Australians broke the contract', an Indian official is quoted as saying in Jeff Smith's book, Cold Peace. In February 2008, Australia announced it would be pulling out of the so-called Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (involving India, the US, and Japan), causing some concern about the direction of its foreign policy. 
Although US and Indian ships returned to the western Pacific in 2011, Japan was recovering from a devastating tsunami the previous month and so did not take part. It would not do so again until last year, when it sent just two ships, half the number that had participated seven years previously. Although the exercises have remained in many respects advanced, they have stagnated in size and scope.
In the eight years since 2007, India has not sent a single carrier, despite the US doing so four times. In the five exercises between 2002 and 2006, Malabar included an average total of eight ships; in the seven years between 2008 and 2014, it was just over nine – hardly a quantum leap, considering that US-India defence trade has been soaring. The average Indian contribution over those same periods actually fell. In 2013, the number of ships at Malabar fell to a paltry three – the lowest ever total, smaller even than the very first exercise over two decades earlier, when the US and India were basically estranged nations. And last year, Indian participation was even smaller than in 1996. The only good news was that Japan was allowed back in after a four-year absence, despite reported opposition from India's defence ministry.
These numbers only tell part of the story – the nature of ships and the sophistication of the exercises are more important – but they suggest a loss of momentum.
There were hopes that all this might change. In September 2014, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Washington, the joint statement noted that the two countries had 'agreed to upgrade their existing bilateral exercise Malabar', a promise reiterated during President Obama's visit to New Delhi in January 2015. This suggested that the Modi Government, clearly more positive about the US-India relationship as a whole and more comfortable with its military aspects than some of its predecessors, would be committed to restoring the exercises to their former strength. This hasn't quite happened.
The Indian Express' Sushant Singh reports that India had planned on sending the same number of ships to Malabar 2015 (three) as it did the previous year, prompting the US to complain, rightly, that India was 'trying to do the bare minimum'. India added a single vessel in response, hardly dispelling these concerns. Nor could India meet the US request to send a carrier because INS Vikramaditya is in maintenance and INS Viraat is on the cusp of being turned into a museum. Japan, too, is sending just one ship, its lowest-ever contribution.
On the plus side, as Singh notes, both the US and India will bring their long-range P-8 maritime surveillance aircraft (India bought eight in 2009, and plans to buy four more) which will bring a valuable new dimension to the exercise for all three countries, with the US increasingly rotating P-8s to the Seventh Fleet in Japan. But the P-8 is also a reminder of some of the remaining obstacles to US-India engagement. As Iskander Rehman explained last year, New Delhi's refusal to sign so-called 'foundational' agreements with Washington – including the Communications Interoperability and Security Memorandum of Agreement (CISMOA) and the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement for Geospatial Cooperation (BECA) – means that the US stripped the P-8s of secure communications and navigation equipment, forcing India to rely on an inferior indigenous system and limiting inter-operability. These agreements are being debated in India and are regularly pushed by US officials, but there's no indication that India is about to take the plunge. 
Looking at the broad arc of the Malabar exercises – the steady rise to 2007, and the slump thereafter – one sees a missed opportunity. At a time when US officials are proposing to institutionalise a multilateral format for Malabar (former US Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for South and Southeast Asia Vikram Singh: 'Malabar is very frustrating because...we wanted to have Japan, Australia all the time') and Australia is keen to resume participation, India seems content to let things tick over.
Yet it would be a powerful boost for Modi's Act East policy if his Government were to take a series of bold steps: bring Canberra back into the fold, commit to sending INS Vikramaditya for next year's Malabar, raise the Indian contribution to at least five vessels and look seriously at a return to the Western Pacific within the next two years – all of which could be tempered by inviting China as an observer (to which the US has had no objection). This would be an excellent way to build on the ambitious language of September's inaugural US-India-Japan Trilateral Ministerial Dialogue.
By my calculation, about 79% of India's combat aircraft squadrons and 96% of its main battle tanks are of Soviet-design, a legacy of New Delhi's close relationship with Moscow in the 1970s and 1980s. A country's defence choices can define the shape of its armed forces for decades to come. This is an important lesson for Indian leaders to heed as they consider the future of the Indian Air Force (IAF), a service that set out a highly ambitious doctrine in 2012, but appears to be shrinking ineluctably year by year. What is especially troubling is that problems are visible across the low, medium, and high end of the IAF combat fleet.
At the high end is the Fifth Generation Fighter Aircraft (FGFA), part of Russia's PAK-FA program (pictured) whose first prototype flew in 2010 and has been in testing since. India is notionally co-developing the aircraft, with some suggestions it's willing to invest tens of billions of dollars into the project. In practice, India's role has grown increasingly limited to particular areas of the aircraft like tyres and radar coolant.
In recent years, there have been growing signs of discontent in India: 'the Russians treat Indians like they are children and the IAF officials with the gold braid on their caps are used to being treated with excessive deference and the Russians do not do that'. Others were concerned about turning the IAF into an all-Russian fleet for another generation, the risks of betting heavily on an unproven platform, and more specific doubts over the aircraft's engines, stealth features, weapons carriage, radar, and safety. Unsurprisingly, then, in September 2014, the IAF reportedly slashed its prospective orders from 10 squadrons (around 220 aircraft) to 6-7 (126- 147 aircraft) and then, in August 2015, to just three (63 aircraft) – in total, a 70% drop in numbers for what is supposed to be the stealthy apex of Indian air power in the 2030s and beyond.
Things are looking just as confusing at the middle end of the spectrum. India had planned to buy 126 French Rafale aircraft as part of its long-running tender for Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft (MMRCA) tender. But that deal dramatically changed shape in April 2015, when Indian Prime Minister Modi – reportedly cutting out Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar – agreed a deal to buy just 36 Rafale in flyaway condition, cancelling the overall tender in July.
That raised two big questions. First, would even this rump deal survive? There have been numerous reports that the two sides are stuck on the price and other issues, while Paris' hand has been strengthened by agreements to sell the Rafale to Egypt and Qatar. Second, what happens to other 90 aircraft that were part of the original deal: will India just settle for fewer jets, or make up the difference somewhere else?
Sweden has offered the lighter and cheaper Gripen, which was part of the original MMRCA competition, while Parrikar has even suggested, intriguingly, that 'some of it can be replaced by even proper stockpiling of missiles'. Two scholars at India's Observer Research Foundation (ORF) have recently written a report on India's indigenous Advanced Medium Combat Aircraft (AMCA), but this project is probably a good quarter century away from completion and of little relevance to the medium-term problem.
Finally, trouble is afoot at the lower end too. India spent decades developing its indigenous Light Combat Aircraft (LCA), later named the Tejas, as a replacement for its large but ageing and accident-prone fleet of MiG-21s. Two squadrons of the Tejas are scheduled to arrive before 2020, and four squadrons of a higher-end Tejas Mark II in the mid 2020s. But IAF officers widely express scepticism, even scorn, at the quality of the Mark I, and the Mark II is increasingly delayed and will struggle to live up to the promise. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), which developed the Tejas, has tried to push a slightly improved Mark IA variant onto the IAF, and even suggested that this could obviate the need for the Mark II altogether, but this seems unlikely to be met with enthusiasm by those who actually have to fly the aircraft in combat.
Put these three issues together, and the scale of the problem becomes apparent. The IAF presently operates around 37 combat squadrons, expected to fall to 32 to 35 (estimates vary) by the end of the year. Its 'sanctioned strength' was supposed to be 42 combat squadrons by 2022. On present trends, this looks to me to be entirely unattainable. MiG-21s are retiring quicker than other aircraft are coming in. Even if the 90-aircraft 'Rafale gap' is filled, I struggle to see how India gets above the mid-30s in squadron numbers by 2020. And after that point, India will start losing its dedicated ground attack aircraft (5 MiG-27 and 7 Jaguar squadrons). The IAF has shown little interest in procuring dedicated replacements for the strike role, suggesting that multi-role aircraft like the Su-30MKI and Rafale will have to take up the slack – underscoring the problem of numbers.
In his 2011 report on the MMRCA deal, Dogfight, American analyst Ashley Tellis suggested that, 'in terms of raw numbers alone, the IAF must plan on confronting by 2020 as many as 1,500 fourth-generation Pakistani and Chinese fighters'. Even if we generously assume that India can stay at 37 squadrons around that date, that would still be around half of that number of aircraft. Chinese participation in an India-Pakistan war is not necessarily likely, but India would be negligent not to consider the possibility and allocate air defence assets accordingly. And as academic Walter Ladwig explored in an excellent paper earlier this year, India's superiority over Pakistan in modern aircraft has fallen from 4:1 in the early 2000s to less than 2.5:1 today. That ratio is likely to fall further.
Numbers aren't everything in air combat, but they certainly matter. Consideration of the air balance could, for instance, shape Indian decisions over the feasibility and effectiveness of punitive air strikes on Pakistan in response to a major terrorist attack. Another long-term implication could be that India has less 'surplus' air power for power projection in the Indian Ocean region, especially during periods of heightened tension on its land borders.
In recent years, India's military modernisation has been portrayed as massive, comprehensive, and unstoppable. But much of this has been about replacement of obsolete platforms rather than numerical growth, and the growing cost of a smaller number of key platforms – particularly combat aircraft – means that even massive spending can produce limited results. Barring a major crisis that prompts India to reverse the steady 25-year slide in the percentage of GDP it spends on defence (now at an all-time low of 2.4%), New Delhi will have to choose to make sacrifices elsewhere if it is serious about plugging the gaps in the IAF. The Army, which continues to consume over half of the defence budget, would be a reasonable place to start.
On 27 July, three militants crossed from Pakistan into the Indian state of Punjab, according to GPS sets they were carrying. They planted five IEDs on a railway track, targeted bus passengers and holed up in a police station in Gurdaspur 20km from the border, eventually killing seven Indians. The attackers were themselves killed by local police after a day's siege.
The Gurdaspur attack was important in several respect apart from the death toll: its location, its method and its timing.
The Line of Control, which divides Indian- and Pakistan-controlled portions of Kashmir, is at its most volatile in a decade, with intense cross-border firing. Separately, there have been a string of terrorist attacks in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir (eg. on 9, 15, 24, 25, and 29 July), and a jump in recruitment by militant groups since January. A militant attack might therefore have been expected there. But Punjab, which lies to the south, is a different matter. From the 1970s onwards, Punjab had faced another insurgency, by militant Sikh separatists. It was also partly backed by Pakistan, but it petered out in the mid-1990s. In June, Indian intelligence warned that radical Sikh groups abroad were becoming more active.
However, it turned out that the attackers were Muslim rather than Sikh.
The choice of Punjab could be motivated by two factors. First, militants might wish to demonstrate their reach beyond Kashmir into more 'normal' parts of India. Second, lax border security might have played a role. The 560km stretch of India-Pakistan border in Punjab is part of the undisputed 'international border' (Pakistan calls it the 'working boundary') rather than the disputed, and more volatile, LoC that divides Kashmir. Indian officials have suggested that drug cartels operating on that border, some connected to Pakistani intelligence as well as to Indian border and state officials, might have helped with the militants' safe passage. Punjab faces a serious narcotics problem, with 361kg of mainly Afghan heroin reportedly recovered along the border last year and 125kg so far this year. Smugglers' use of Pakistani SIM cards, gaps in electric fencing caused by monsoon floods and tall grass all complicate enforcement.
India's Border Security Force (BSF) is now reviewing 38 vulnerable border points and 150 local people suspected of involvement in drug trafficking. The irony is that a state which allegedly didn't experience a single infiltration attempt for a whole decade (1996-2006) should now be a source of greater concern than Kashmir, where the infiltration has fallen from 97 crossings in 2013 to 65 last year to zero this year, according to Indian Army data.
The attack also underscores more familiar vulnerabilities in India's counter-terrorism capabilities.
KPS Gill, a former director of police in the Punjab, renowned for his central role in curbing the insurgency, wrote a scathing column for the Indian Express pointing to a woeful lack of equipment and training for local police. The same newspaper noted that Punjab police had been trained by Israeli specialists four years ago but that funding dried up, leaving police firing 'a handful of rounds for practice' every year, SWAT teams walking around a live siege without bulletproof vests or helmets, turf wars between local and federal forces, and no back-up for two hours. Seven years after the Mumbai attacks, India's ability to respond quickly and effectively to major attacks remains under serious question.
The other important aspect of the Gurdaspur attack is the timing. Three weeks ago, on 10 July, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met with his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) meeting in Ufa, Russia. Having suspended talks with Pakistan last year over a relatively routine Pakistani meeting with Kashmiri separatists, Modi announced he would in fact travel to Pakistan for next year's South Asian Association of Regional Cooperation (SAARC) summit and, moreover, that his hawkish National Security Advisor, Ajit Doval, would meet with his Pakistani counterpart Sartaj Aziz.
Despite New Delhi's obvious U-turn, prompting an 'I told you so' from several analysts, Indian officials were cock-a-hoop because India's core concern (terrorism) was explicitly mentioned in the joint briefing while Pakistan's (Kashmir) was not. This was followed by irritation and outrage at home in Pakistan, a shot of tetchy clarification by Aziz on 11 July, a kerfuffle over an Indian drone and Pakistani border firing on 15 July, and repeated Pakistani suggestions that they will raise (unsubstantiated) allegations of Indian-backed terrorism both with India and at the UN. On Eid, 18 July, Pakistani soldiers on the border symbolically refused to accept traditional celebratory sweets from their Indian counterparts.
This is the febrile context to Gurdaspur. Bilateral relations are in severe flux, with renewed contacts amid a backdrop of edgy tension. In the past, terrorist attacks have coincided with such phases of dialogue between India and Pakistan. The charitable interpretation is that terrorist groups wish to disrupt any process of rapprochement. The more cynical explanation is that 'rogue elements' in the Pakistani state, as The Hindu put it, share that aim. More cynical still, though borne out by precedent, is that the Pakistani military establishment itself, rather than mavericks, are the ultimate spoilers.
The veteran national security reporter Praveen Swami, for instance, claims that from the perspective of Pakistan's generals, 'New Delhi has no choice but to bear more pain in Kashmir'. The attackers' possession of night-vision equipment and a 60mm mortar might also point, circumstantially, to state sponsorship. Unnamed and unspecified 'sources' told India's Zee News that Pakistani intelligence had trained the attackers on the Thailand-Myanmar border for ten days, sources from India's Home Ministry specifically named the Pakistani-intelligence-backed group Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Economic Times says Indian intelligence agencies reported a 17 July meeting at which the Pakistani army gave 'clear instructions' to its border forces to encourage infiltration.
And yet, India's official response has been deliberately and significantly cautious. India's home minister himself admitted to parliament he didn't have 'credible evidence' linking the Pakistani state to the attack, and was careful in his language. More importantly, Indian officials have said the meeting of Indian and Pakistani national security advisers will go ahead, probably on 23 and 24 August.
A number of Indian analysts, though largely blaming Pakistan, have backed this approach. Nitin Pai  argued that India's 'most effective Pakistan policy is eight per cent economic growth'. The Indian Express urged Modi to 'shut his ears to the tweets of the hawks' and stick with the dialogue. The Hindu warned against 'knee-jerk reactions', commended 'the policy of engagement', and suggested an 'iron fist in a velvet glove'. Srinath Raghavan argued that talks should be routinised rather than treated as a reward for good behaviour.
Meanwhile, in the characteristic Punch and Judy style of Indian parliamentary politics, the opposition Congress Party issued puerile jeers at the Government, in response to which the home minister lashed out by highlighting Congress' own foreign policy failures (including highly topical examples such as a war with China that occurred 53 years ago) and suggesting, in dog-whistle fashion, that Congress' focus on 'Hindu terrorism'. Such is the feeble state of the national security debate among India's elected leaders.
Mullah Omar is the Lazarus of the international jihad. The one-eyed Taliban leader has been pronounced dead at regular intervals over the years, with each occasion prompting furious denials from Taliban officials and, in due course, a missive purporting to be from the man himself.
But this time is different. The Afghan president's office has released a statement saying that Omar died in April 2013. Other Afghan officials have attributed the claim of Mullah Omar's death to their counterparts in Pakistan, where Omar is widely believed to have been under the protection of that country's intelligence services.
What is significant is the timing, for the Taliban faces an internal power struggle, in part over budding Pakistan-brokered peace talks with the Afghan Government, and due to the growing challenge from ISIS in Afghanistan.
In many ways, the Taliban has been fragmenting for years. The authority and legitimacy of older Taliban leaders, who established themselves in the 1990s, has waned. The US-led kill-capture campaign against mid-level commanders gave rise to what one study called a generation of 'more ideologically motivated and less nationalistic...and therefore less pragmatic' leaders with little memory of an Afghanistan at peace and less inclined to compromise with Afghan Government. More recently there have been several reported power struggles at the top, pitting senior leader Mullah Akhtar Mansoor, who has supported peace talks, against various figures said to oppose them, including Mullah Omar's 26-year-old son Mullah Yaqub and sacked military commander Abdul Qayum Zakir.
It is those talks, which began in the Pakistani town of Murree on 7 July and were scheduled to continue on 31 July, which would be most immediately affected were the news of Omar's death to be confirmed and acknowledged.
In 2012, former State Department adviser Vali Nasr told the New Yorker's Steve Coll that Omar was crucial because 'there is no legitimacy to a Taliban decision without him. He is the Ho Chi Minh of the war. If you have him, if you hold him, you control the whole organization'. While this may exaggerate the degree to which the Taliban obeys a formal hierarchy, perceptions of Omar as a moral arbiter – especially in his role as 'commander of the faithful' – is crucial.
This is why, on 15 July, Mullah Omar 'endorsed' the peace talks in a supposed Eid message, smoothing over an argument between the Taliban's Qatar office and its leaders in Pakistan. Dead or alive (one senior Taliban figure openly acknowledged that Omar had 'no control' over the message), Omar's perceived imprimatur for the talks and for specific envoys has given the process a degree of coherence and credibility. It has encouraged the hope, however modest, that what might be agreed in Pakistani hotels could, eventually, translate into changes on the ground in Afghanistan. Even with Omar deemed alive, it was far from clear what proportion of Taliban commanders and fighters would abide by any settlement. But acknowledging his death would challenge the legitimacy of those who claim to speak on their leader's behalf. Indeed, those dissatisfied with the course of events may have leaked the news precisely for this reason.
Even if those in favour of talks can ride out the consequences of this news and sustain the dialogue with Kabul, they could see increasing dissent, and even defection, from their commanders in the field. ISIS has increasingly sought to challenge the Taliban's authority in the south and east, hoping to co-opt disgruntled Taliban commanders. ISIS's presence remains limited, and its Afghan leader was killed in a drone strike earlier this month. ISIS faces a radically different sectarian and political environment to that in Syria or Iraq, and has made few inroads so far. But the group would exploit any chaos in the Taliban ranks.
For the past fourteen years, Mullah Omar has been an unseen, ghostly presence over the war in Afghanistan. It is the idea – the myth – of Omar, rather than his everyday leadership, that matters. Formal acknowledgment of his loss could change the direction of this long war. The irony is that the West might come to regret the splintering of a group they fought for over a decade, both for its impact on peace talks and for the opportunities it has created for new and more radical actors like ISIS.
Early on Tuesday morning, 70 Indian special forces crossed into Myanmar from two north-eastern Indian states, Manipur and Nagaland, and killed more than a dozen militants of two groups, the SCN(K) and the Kanglei Yawol Kanna Lup (KYKL), that had ambushed and killed 18 Indian soldiers a week earlier.
Does this portend the new, more aggressive era of Indian counter-terrorism – and perhaps even covert operations – that many anticipated from Prime Minister Narendra Modi? While it's true that the speed of the Indian response is novel, some questionable lessons are being drawn in the breathless press coverage. This isn't helped by the fact that Indian accounts are presently mired in inconsistencies and contradictions.
The Indian television channel NDTV reports that the operation began at 3am, while the Indian Express puts it four hours later. NDTV says the Indian Army sent a note to its counterparts in Myanmar 'minutes before ops began' and that the Indian ambassador met a minister in Myanmar only later in the morning, when government offices opened. It concludes: 'this was a solo operation...not just on the ground, but also in the planning and implementation'.
But there's a whiff of official spin about this chronology. The Express' sources claim special forces were in 'constant communication with Myanmar authorities', and Praveen Swami notes that India received 'high-level clearance' from Myanmar on Monday; India Today corroborates this. Most implausibly of all, Myanmar itself insists that it all took place on Indian soil. NDTV says casualties were estimated at 50 but could be as high as 100 or more and The Hindu agrees, while the Express puts it at just 14-18. The Hindustan Times reports that helicopter gunships provided support, and has printed a photograph of an Mi-35 reportedly flying towards Myanmar, though this detail isn't found anywhere else.
Conflicting details are inevitable in the aftermath of any such event, but it also seems that the Indian Government is furiously spinning the operation to its advantage. It is the same dynamic which resulted in shifting narratives on the US raid against Osama bin Laden in 2011. NDTV is careful to note that India's National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, who has cultivated a swashbuckling persona in the press, and the Army Chief both personally 'camped' in Manipur, and that the Prime Minster's Office 'monitored the sensitive operation in real time'. Given that the operation seems to have gone smoothly, it's naturally in the Government's interest to play up the risks (which were undoubtedly real) and the personal involvement of senior figures.
However, some also seem to be putting an even bolder spin on this: that it represents, according to India Today, 'new rules of engagements to deal with terrorism and...Pakistan', and, for NDTV, 'a crucial message to China'.
These conclusions reflect decades of pent-up frustration with successive governments' unwillingness – prudent for some, pusillanimous for others – to impose a serious cost on Pakistan for its sponsorship of terrorist groups. But the extrapolation is tenuous and dangerous.
Raids conducted with the foreknowledge, express permission, and – though it's been denied – assistance of the neighbouring state (say, with up-to-date maps or other intelligence) are entirely different to raids in non-permissive territory against hostile states. As Sushant Singh notes, India carried out joint cross-border operations in Myanmar in 1995 and in 2006, as well as in Bhutan in 2003. India and Myanmar reached an agreement for cross-border access in 2010 and Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj raised the issue during a visit last August. It goes without saying that none of these conditions hold in the case of either Pakistan or China.
For a year, this Government has portrayed itself as breaking with the timidity of its predecessor: prepared to escalate shelling on the Line of Control with Pakistan, take covert action where necessary, and assert itself on the international stage. In this environment, it's easy to see how a single cross-border assault assisted by a neighbour is being hailed as Entebbe or Abbotabad. In truth, India's special forces capability have a long way to go.
In their book on the subject, retired Lieutenant General PC Katoch and journalist Saikat Datta note that India has over 20,000 special forces but 'one tenth' of US capabilities, as a result of inadequate officer numbers, training, intelligence, language skills, air support, and a lack of centralised command. In another recent paper, George Perkovich and Toby Dalton cite Indian experts, including retired officials, who acknowledge that 'India does not now have the capability to combine special operations in Pakistan with precision air support', notwithstanding highly localised raids across the Line of Control.
Finally, India's foreign and security policy machinery needs to get better at handling these things. The Indian Army's own spokesman, perhaps hoping to avoid embarrassing Myanmar, assiduously avoided any suggestion that India had crossed the border. His effort was quickly undone by bombastic tweets from a junior minister in charge of broadcasting, Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, who gleefully tweeted that Indian forces had gone 'deep into another country', promised that 'we will strike at a place and at a time of out choosing', and declared the raid 'a message for all countries, including Pakistan'. For good measure, he threw in the off-message hashtag #ManipurRevenge. Handling public diplomacy to an over-caffeinated and tone-deaf minister is rather amateurish signaling – the substitution of quiet professionalism with jingoistic hyperbole.
As the dust settles, the Indian Government would do well to take stock of the various lessons – both encouraging and cautionary – that might be drawn from the past few days.
In recent years, strategic rivalry between India and China has been evident across the Indo-Pacific, with Beijing progressively growing its diplomatic, economic and military influence on India's land and maritime periphery, and India belatedly pushing back to preserve its once privileged position in nations like Sri Lanka and Myanmar.
Image courtesy of the IFRC. To donate to the Red Cross Nepal appeal, click here.
Much like Cold War era competition between the US and the Soviet Union, this dynamic has given attractive options to local governments adept enough to play the risky game of playing off one nation against the other. The most prominent example has been Sri Lanka's ability to secure Chinese assistance in facilitating one of the most brutal counterinsurgency campaigns of recent times, before pivoting back towards India earlier this year.
Nepal's massive earthquake is first and foremost a human tragedy, killing upwards of 4000 people and placing a weak and under-resourced government under overwhelming stress. But the response has also been marked by elements of the same regional competition.
India, China, and Pakistan have all rushed to offer assistance and evacuate their nationals. As part of its 'Operation Maitri', India is using 12 military transport aircraft and 18 helicopters to drop aid into Kathmandu, evacuate Indian nationals (over 2000 by air so far), and most importantly, ferry at least ten 45-strong teams of the National Disaster Response Force to assist with search and rescue, many of whom reached the worst-affected areas near the epicenter on Monday. India has also set up three field hospitals with 18 medical teams.
Indian efforts are headquartered in Kathmandu under a Major General of the Gorkha Rifles, with a high degree of coordination between the Nepalese Army and Indian units, aided by the close, longstanding ties between the two forces (28,000 Gorkhas serve in the Indian Army, with another 125,000 retired in Nepal). Indian power grid officials have traveled to Nepal to help restore power, with an Indian Oil Corporation team following.
Nepal is a special case because of its deep and organic ties with New Delhi, the sheer heft of Indian diplomats, spies and military officers in Nepalese politics, and because of its proximity to India itself. Indian Prime Minister Modi has already visited Nepal twice since coming to power last year (for an excellent survey of India's policy dilemmas there, see this February piece by the authoritative journalist Prashant Jha). A significant part of this attention has been motivated by concern over China's growing footprint, including arms sales after India's 2005 cut-off, infrastructure projects and a close interest in 20,000 Tibetan refugees. Soutik Biswas observes that China overtook India as Nepal's largest foreign investor last year.
While China's relief efforts have been rapid, they have also been modest. The argument that 'China's involvement...could further change the balance of power in the region, challenging India and potentially putting Nepal's Tibetan exile community at risk' is greatly exaggerated.
Nevertheless, Indian policymakers would have been aware that a delayed or mishandled relief effort could have not just humanitarian but also long-term diplomatic consequences (Keith Johnson notes in Foreign Policy that Beijing's response to the 2013 Philippines typhoon 'helped further sour tensions with Manila'). One study even talks about 'disaster relief diplomacy'.
India's response also highlights its growing humanitarian assistance and disaster relief (HADR) capability. This was on display most recently in Yemen, where India extracted not just 4741 Indians but also nearly 2000 foreign nationals from 48 other countries, something described by one retired Indian Air Vice Marshal as 'a coming of age of our HADR system'. Many of the same capabilities were employed domestically after devastating floods in Uttarakhand and Kashmir, two northern states, in 2013 and 2014. And last year, other military assets, notably the Boeing P-8I maritime surveillance aircraft, were used as part of the multinational search and rescue effort for missing flight MH370.
HADR can be a means to build ties with other armed forces. It employs the same platforms and capabilities that would be called upon for projecting hard power over long distances; the same planes that ferry relief workers and aid can carry troops and tanks, and the same aircraft hunting for a missing aircraft can look for enemy submarines. But HADR allows militaries to built interoperability with foreign counterparts in less provocative settings than joint exercises, while developing near-identical capabilities. As a CNA study proposed last year, this is exactly why it's an excellent way to develop US-India military-to-military interactions, given India's unwillingness to sign formal agreements with the US on things like logistics support and communications interoperability.
In the short term, if regional competition produces quicker and greater support for Nepal's beleaguered government, so much the better.
Over the past month, Hugh White and I have exchanged opposing views on the meaning of the US-India relationship on The Interpreter.
Hugh first argued that President Barack Obama's January trip to New Delhi failed, 'because India is not willing to make the preservation of US primacy its principal strategic aim in Asia.' I replied that this was an unfairly high bar to set in terms of judging India's role in the pivot. Hugh then clarified:
India's new alignment with the US will only make a real difference if it is credibly willing to support America militarily against China if and when US primacy is at stake. Diffuse and politically acceptable diplomatic support won't cut it at a time like this. So the test of the US-India alignment is simple: does anyone think India would send forces to help America defend Japan's claim to the Senkakus, or the Philippines' claims in the South China Sea, or Taiwan? If not, how does India's support help America deter China from challenging US primacy in these flashpoints? And if it doesn't do that, what use is it to Obama? 
In his book The China Choice, Hugh fleshes this out with three arguments. First, 'as India emerges as a great power in its own right...its aim will be to maximise its own power, not support America's.' Second, 'the stronger India becomes, the less it will need America to help balance China.' And third, 'the stronger China is relative to India, the more cautious Delhi will be about sacrificing its interest in a good relationship with Beijing.'
First, what if Indian power is a function not just of internal factors – economic growth and defence spending – but also its partnership with the US? India is getting stronger, true, but the gap with China will be large for decades to come. The US has been willing to sell India a huge and growing volume of high-end arms, including platforms that directly augment India's capabilities vis-à-vis China, and transfer to it technology that is normally the purview of close American allies. Supporting America, and consolidating these valuable transfers, is therefore one way for India to enhance its position as a great power.
Second, should we judge partnerships primarily in terms of one country's willingness to wage war alongside another? Countries can provide significant military support without directly entering a conflict. New Delhi allowed US aircraft carrying arms to refuel at its airports during the First Gulf War despite its overt opposition to the campaign. India also offered the use of its military facilities immediately after 9/11, strongly considered sending troops to Iraq, and may sign a Logistics Support Agreement that would permit, inter alia, the refuelling of one another's aircraft and warships. And this is with the relationship at a nascent stage.
Consider, also, that China has consistently let down Pakistan in each and every one of its wars, even as the country was dismembered; yet this bilateral relationship, too, is considered a significant one for both parties. Hugh might legitimately retort that the smaller party (Pakistan) was never called upon to defend the regional position of its larger patron (China), and so the analogy is imperfect. But Beijing certainly felt that its cultivation of Pakistan had a potential, if modest and unknowable, deterrent effect on India had a crisis broken out. 
Third, to develop this point further, if China did go to war against Japan, the Philippines or Taiwan, it is obviously true that India would not send its warships straight in. But the US-India relationship could still make an important mark on any such conflict. India could allow use of its facilities and provide enablers, as described above. India's acquiescence or support would make a distant blockade of China much easier. This does not necessarily 'deter' China, as Hugh requires, but it may well affect Beijing's calculus at the margin. That seems like a good investment for Washington. 
Fourth, much depends on the origins and nature of any US-China confrontation. Hugh frames such a conflict as a Chinese challenge for US primacy, which India has little reason to uphold. But when Iraq challenged US primacy by invading Kuwait, a large coalition, including states that could have chosen to free ride on American efforts and others that would have had good reason not to alienate Saddam, came together. 
Why did they do so? Firstly because they saw that benefits might accrue from being seen as valuable partners; secondly because the success and consequent emboldening of a regional hegemon would threaten them in the future; and thirdly, perhaps also because they had some commitment to, and interest in, basic norms of international conduct, such as preservation of the territorial status quo. 
It is not hard to see how each of these three dynamics could characterise a future Asian conflict. China's heft works both ways: it dissuades middle powers from exposing themselves to a US-China fight, but if that fight is consequential enough – and in Hugh's framework, it would be – then it also means that they have a stake in supporting the US, a status quo power, against what would be a dramatic shift in the perceived Asian balance of power.
For India, the severity of the Sino-Indian border dispute gives this real force: were China to succeed in, say, invading and occupying the Senkakus, India would be profoundly concerned about the implications for its own disputed territory; both in terms of what such a development might reveal about China's risk-acceptance, and the precedents it might set in terms of maritime and territorial revision. And political scientists can shout until they're blue in the face that 'credibility' and 'reputation' are misunderstood concepts, but this isn't necessarily how Indian leaders will think under such circumstances. 
Fifth, Hugh argues that 'India has a wide range of interests at stake in its relationship with China, and India cannot afford to subordinate those interests to the concerns of America or Japan, or Australia.' The first part is undoubtedly true, but the second is less clear. India might well bandwagon in some areas, becoming gradually more interoperable with the US, and balance in others, continuing to work at odds with Washington on, say, trade or climate change. Up to a point, we can indeed disaggregate these different economic/diplomatic and security/military elements. West Germany's Ostpolitik, for instance, never fundamentally compromised its position in NATO. I have a feeling that some of this depends on how we define 'primacy', and the types of actions that destroy (rather than challenge) it. 
India is very far from thinking seriously about its potential role in American wars with China; but then we are still far from violent Chinese challenges to US primacy. The point is to note how far India has come, and how quickly things are changing.
*I am grateful to Dhruva Jaishankar for sharpening my thinking on several of these issues, though he is not responsible for the arguments here.
One of the most important aspects of the recent dramatic shift in US-India relations has been the convergence in the two states' narratives about Asia. It's easy to forget that this change is palpable not just over a four-decade period, but even in the past six years alone.
In 2009, early in his first term, President Barack Obama agreed to a controversial joint statement with China in which the two sides promised to work for 'peace, stability and development in South Asia', including 'the improvement and growth of relations between India and Pakistan'. Earlier that year, India had lobbied furiously, and successfully, to prevent the US Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, the late Richard Holbrooke, from including either India or Kashmir in his remit, as the Obama Administration had initially sought.
These signals elicited irritation and anger in Delhi, particularly over the notion that Beijing might be accorded a tutelary role over India, something that affected both India's security and its status.
One former Indian ambassador to the US wrote that Obama's 'bending over backwards before the Chinese was an act of appeasement', and writer C Raja Mohan said: 'we have no interest in supporting a US-Sino condominium'. When then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh visited Washington the next year, the joint statement declared 'a shared vision for peace, stability and prosperity in Asia, the Indian Ocean region and the Pacific region', but there wasn't much substance to this. The Carnegie Endowment's George Perkovich wrote a detailed study concluding that US and Indian strategy in Asia was fundamentally divergent, so 'bilateral relations should not be used to contain China'.
In the just-released US National Security Strategy (NSS), India receives prominent and adulatory mention: 'we support India's role as a regional provider of security', and 'see a strategic convergence with India's Act East policy and our continued implementation of the rebalance to Asia and the Pacific'. As Ariq Rafiq noted, this amounts to acknowledgment of India as 'regional hegemon'.
By contrast, the 2010 NSS had noted merely that 'will seek to work with India to promote stability in South Asia', a subtle but significant difference to the provision of security, and no more than was promised to Pakistan. The 2010 Quadrennial Defence Review had gone a little further, stating that, 'as its military capabilities grow, India will contribute to Asia as a net provider of security in the Indian Ocean and beyond', but this promise was still couched in the future tense. The largely vacuous nature of these official documents means that even subtle changes in wording and emphasis can denote relatively significant changes in policy.
Between 2010 and 2014, New Delhi responded positively but cautiously – some would argue timidly – to US outreach, with both countries spurred on by perceptions of Chinese assertiveness. Under the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the shift has been more noticeable. The US-India joint statement that emerged from the September meeting between Obama and Modi made two extremely important references to Asia.
The first was its explicit comparison between India's 'Act East' policy and the US 'rebalance'. Indian officials had previously been wary of endorsing the rebalance for fear of provoking China, so it was striking that they would now accept an implicitly favourable parallel with India's own engagement in Asia. Second, the statement noted joint concern about the South China Sea. Whereas previous such statements had exhorted freedom of navigation in general terms, India's willingness to mention the sea by name indicated a new willingness to confront China. Modi then doubled down on his visit to Vietnam in October and at the East Asia Summit in November where even Vietnam and the Philippines, both claimants in that dispute, did not mention it. 
Then, on the occasion of Obama's visit to New Delhi for India's Republic Day celebrations last month, the US and India released a far-reaching 'Joint Strategic Vision for the Asia-Pacific and Indian Ocean Region', which mentioned the South China Sea and endorsed 'India's interest' in membership of APEC (China and Russia followed suit in February). Joshua White and Peter Lavoy called it a 'remarkable' statement, and argued 'Indian elites...increasingly suggest that India must embrace its Asian identity and play an active role in regional institutions'.
Some have taken a more sceptical view. Hugh White, writing in the Interpreter last week, argued that the trip was intended to boost the pivot and that 'it didn't work', because 'India is not willing to make the preservation of US primacy its principal strategic aim in Asia'. But this is a high bar to set. India doesn't need to make US primacy its main objective. It can take a range of other steps, from aligning itself to US allies to strengthening a diplomatic consensus against China, that together contribute to that primacy in a more diffuse, politically acceptable manner.
We can identify several factors: China's own behaviour in Southeast and South Asia, the US decision to devote greater diplomatic and military attention to Asia, and a change of government within India. These things can, of course, regress. China could aggressively seek to court India, splitting it from the US and her Asian allies; the US could become preoccupied with challenges in the Middle East and Eastern Europe, or move closer to Beijing as a result of a crisis (say, in the Korean Peninsula); and India's government could grow distracted itself, by Pakistan or Afghanistan, or decide it has been moving too fast for prudence.
A much-vaunted solution to the impasse over Indian regulations on civil nuclear commerce, agreed during Obama's trip, appears to be shot through with holes. More broadly, India will fight anything it sees a threatening accommodation with Pakistani proxies in Afghanistan, it largely sides with Russia and Iran and on Syria, it is outright sympathetic to Russia's invasions and annexations in Europe, and, as Srinath Raghavan described in The Hindu last week, worries about being cut out of Sino-American deals on climate change and world trade. Rupa Subramanya has pointed to intellectual property as an especially thorny issue, and Ian Hall surveyed others last month. These are not trivial problems. But the last 15 years of US-India relations suggest there are structural dynamics at work. The bilateral relationship has stalled but rarely has it backslidden, and Modi has several years to push US-Indian convergence to such a degree that it would be intellectually and practically difficult for a successor to reverse.
India's sudden appointment of S Jaishankar as its foreign secretary, the senior-most diplomat in the Indian Foreign Ministry, is a sign of intent. Jaishankar was serving as India's ambassador in Washington and before that in Beijing, and played a prominent role in the Modi-Obama meetings. As he noted in a speech in January 2014, 'the US has to overcome its inclination to view ties through the lens of alliance practices', but added that 'Indians perhaps have to indulge themselves less in compulsive ambiguity'.
As that ambiguity is progressively shed, we can expect even more Indian engagement with US allies in the region, more naval exercises, more Indian attention to the South China Sea, and deeper Indian involvement with the economic and security architecture of Asia.
The chemistry between President Barack Obama and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi last September was evident. Modi was reportedly 'really touched' by parts of the visit, and the co-authored op-ed, joint statement, and body language all indicated a degree of warmth that was far from assured.
When they met two months later at the East Asia Summit in Myanmar, Modi extended what was reported as a 'spur of the moment' invitation for Obama to attend India's Republic Day parade as chief guest (although the Times of India suggests a less spontaneous process). The parade is an annual commemoration of the date on which India's constitution came into force — the Dominion of India then becoming a republic — and on which occasion it shows off, among other things, the best of its military hardware in the heart of Delhi. This is a big deal, steeped in historical significance.
It will not be lost on Indians that many of the missiles to be rolled under President Obama's nose were developed in the face of US technology denial and sanctions from the 1970s onwards, nor that the parade will mark the fiftieth anniversary of the 1965 Indo-Pakistan war in which the US imposed an arms embargo. That was another time, another era — a time when the chief guests at the parade were a string of Yugoslav, Soviet and non-aligned leaders (though the Queen came in 1961, Jacques Chirac in 1973, and Malcolm Fraser in 1979).
In September, the US and India promised to 'treat each other at the same level as their closest partners, including defence technology transfers, trade, research, co-production, and co-development'. This is a remarkable – indeed, an unrealistic – promise from the American side, given the depth of its defence relationship with allies like Israel, Britain, and Japan. It is also consequential for India, which has co-developed a hypersonic cruise missile with Russia, historically its closest defence partner (Russia's defence minister visited the production site this week), and plans on co-developing a fifth-generation fighter jet with Moscow too, though progress has been slow. Grand statements are easy; follow-up is harder.
As I explained on the Interpreter last year, the likely appointment of Ashton Carter as US defence secretary (subject to the whims of Congress) is likely to give a fillip to US-India defence ties. India now also has its own dedicated defence minister, Manohar Parrikar, after six months in which the ailing and overworked finance minister held the office. As the Indian defence journalist Ajai Shukla has explained in two pieces – one an excellent survey, and the other an analysis of Indian pathologies – over $8 billion of Indian arms purchases from the US are in the pipeline, including attack and heavy lift helicopters, surveillance and transport aircraft, and jet engines. Shukla notes that 'top Indian intelligence officials say there is an unprecedented level of intelligence sharing, including on topics that both sides earlier regarded as off-limits', and that the US conducts more military exercises with India than any other country.
All that is impressive. But technology transfer, co-manufacture, and co-development have all moved slowly, for reasons I explained last month and which may be compounded by last week's premature sacking of the director of India's Defence Research and Development Organisation. Reports suggest this visit will see agreements to build the RQ-11 surveillance drone and roll-on/roll-off modules for the C-130 transport aircraft in India, but expectations seem to be much lower for other areas, such as an electromagnetic launch system for India's indigenous aircraft carrier.
That said, high-level political attention can enable dramatic shifts, as it did when the Bush Administration engaged with Modi's predecessor in 2005. If Obama and Modi are willing to make the effort, and see this as a priority, they can accelerate defence cooperation more quickly than is supposed. And the onus here is on India. As Ashley Tellis observed in the Hindustan Times on Thursday, India 'needs to explain how this affiliation with Washington stacks up against the more than 30 other strategic partnerships India enjoys with countries as diverse as Argentina, Canada, Iran, Japan, Mozambique, Russia, South Africa, and South Korea'.
Also on the agenda is counter-terrorism. Last September's joint statement promised 'joint and concerted efforts' against a string of Pakistani terrorist groups, including Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). In the past week, Pakistani reports suggest Islamabad has frozen the funds of LeT's front organisations and imposed a travel ban on its leader. Pakistan may be bowing to US pressure, implementing its so-called 'National Action Plan', or a mixture of both. Such bans have, in the past, been merely cosmetic, allowing militant groups to change their name and continue their work. Indeed, LeT's leader Hafiz Saeed plans to hold a public rally in Karachi on the day of Obama's arrival, and a Pakistani minister had questioned whether Saeed is a terrorist at all. India is sure to lobby the US to keep pressure on Pakistan in this regard, as well as ask for more real-time intelligence sharing.
Further west, in Afghanistan, two important shifts have occurred since Obama and Modi last met. First, Obama decided to allow US forces to undertake more of a combat role in 2015 than had previously been envisaged and, in December, slightly upped troop numbers to offset lower-than-expected NATO contributions. That's exactly what Modi had called for at the Council on Foreign Relations in September. On the other hand, and less encouragingly for Modi, the new Afghan Government has made a pivot to Pakistan by cancelling a longstanding request for Indian arms, making a prominent presidential visit to Pakistan (including a controversial visit to Pakistan's army headquarters), and acquiescing to China-brokered talks with the Taliban. In the Hindu a few days ago, India's former ambassador in Kabul outlined Indian anxieties. Modi is likely to seek assurances on the future US presence, as well as Washington's attitude to these regional shifts.
Away from defence and security, other issues on the table, as Brookings analyst Tanvi Madan notes in her detailed piece, include trade and investment, civil nuclear cooperation, climate change, clean energy, and visa policy. The trade and investment challenge alone is extremely daunting. As former US ambassador to India Frank Wisner noted in this week's Hindu, India lacks a bilateral investment treaty, isn't part of WTO negotiations on key areas like IT services and government procurement, isn't a member of APEC, and isn't being considered for Trans-Pacific trade negotiations. It therefore 'risks being excluded from the world's most potentially dynamic market areas'.
None of this can be resolved in a week. But this is the longest trip to India by any US president, and the first such repeat visit. Obama and Modi have a great opportunity to consolidate the symbolic and substantive gains of their previous meetings, and perhaps identify a few priorities that deserve a harder push from the top.
In 1965, a Pakistani military delegation traipsed to Beijing in hope of replacing equipment they'd lost in the previous year's war with India.
Premier Zhou Enlai, meeting the delegation, was bewildered by their request for only 14 days' ammunition. 'How can a war be fought in that short time?' Zhou then asked: 'I would be interested to know if you have prepared the people of Pakistan to operate in the rear of the enemy...I am talking about a People's Militia being based in every village and town'. The Sandhurst-educated generals were taken aback. 'What does Zhou Enlai know about soldiering anyway?'
This story appears early in Andrew Small's outstanding new book The China-Pakistan Axis: Asia's New Geopolitics. It is a reminder that the two countries are odd bedfellows, lacking the cultural affinity that might be implied by General Xiong Guangkai's quip that 'Pakistan is China's Israel'.
China has repeatedly left Pakistan to stew in its own juices in moments of peril, from 1965 to more recent crises.
During Pakistan's dismemberment in 1971, its desperate commanders sent delusional messages to troops, promising US and Chinese intervention: 'yellow from the north and white from the south'. But the cavalry never came. The economic statistics are also resoundingly underwhelming. Vietnam, with an economy half the size of Pakistan's, has four times the bilateral trade. China pledged US$66 billion of assistance to Pakistan between 2001 and 2011, but only 6% ever materialised.
This is certainly at odds with the ritualistic Pakistani hyperbole that marks every bilateral visit. As Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif put it on his last trip, 'our friendship is higher than the Himalayas and deeper than the deepest sea in the world and sweeter than honey'. But Pakistan's real value to China, explains Small, is 'an India that is forced to look nervously over its shoulder at its western neighbour is easier for Beijing to manage'.
And so, China accelerated Pakistan's nuclear weapons program over three decades, starting with fissile material in the 1980s, advanced missiles in the 1990s and the steady construction of new reactors (in flagrant violation of China's own non-proliferation commitments) in the 2000s and beyond. The two countries established a 'coordination bureau' in 1969 to arm, fund and train Indian insurgents, a policy from which China, argues Small, 'has never backed away entirely'. Beijing has also shielded Pakistani intelligence officers from UN terrorism sanctions.
This history is largely well known, and Small pulls it all together deftly and with meticulous sourcing. But he supplements it with extensive interviews, and these paint a richer picture of Chinese foreign policy in motion. A few themes stand out.
The first is a generational shift in China's South Asia hands, at the same time as disquiet began to rise about Pakistan's stability. Small explains that 'the older generations are almost exclusively India experts, and still stress the need for "balance" in China's relationships with the two South Asian powers'. But the younger analysts include a 'growing number of Pakistan hands who generally believe that China should accept its rivalry with India and embrace the strategic relationship with Pakistan'. If this is correct, it helps clarify Chinese behaviour towards India over the past few years, such as an oddly timed flare-up on the border just as President Xi Jinping was beginning his high profile visit to Delhi last year. 
China has been able to manage this relationship with Pakistan relatively well in part because of its highly flexible, narrowly focused approach towards international terrorism: 'don't bother us' – ie. keep away from Uighurs – 'and we won't bother you', a proposition sweetened with 'money or small arms supplies' to placate what might be otherwise threatening groups. These sweeteners include transfers of heavy weaponry and explosives to the Taliban, whom Beijing hosted this month, and even a reported meeting with al Qaeda 'to sound out its intentions'. The close ties between Pakistan's intelligence services and manifold jihadists, a source of serious US-Pakistan tension, has been exploited by China as an opportunity, with Pakistani spies brokering meetings and leaning on key groups to respect China's red lines.
At the same time, Small's interviewees make clear this isn't a blank cheque. 'If India launches air strikes on Pakistan, we would be willing to respond', says one Chinese expert, reflecting on the Mumbai attacks, 'but when it's Pakistan that causes the problem we can't back them'. Another, discussing Chinese contingency planning in the event of a crisis involving nuclear weapons, clarifies that 'China is willing to help Pakistan defend a Pakistani bomb. We won't help them protect an Islamic bomb'. 
Above all, Chinese officials have been disturbed by escalating violence both in Xinjiang and against the more than 10,000 Chinese nationals within Pakistan. China is particularly neuralgic about the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), which operates in Pakistan's tribal areas. Small records a litany of complaints that could easily have come from jaded American officials: 'when we provide them (Pakistan) with intelligence on ETIM locations they give warnings before launching their attacks'; another frets about extremist sympathies in Pakistan's Army, observing that 'we're not worried about the generals, we're worried about the brigadiers'. Pakistan's recent offensive into North Waziristan, home to ETIM's Uzbek allies, the IMU, may dampen these concerns only temporarily. 
The China-Pakistan Axis concludes by connecting the bilateral relationship to broader themes in Chinese foreign policy. On the one hand, Pakistan is both a Chinese pawn (against India) and platform for power projection (Small argues, interestingly, that it's now Chinese naval strategists, not just Indian, who are seriously talking up the long-term possibilities of Pakistan's long-stalled Gwadar port). But there are limits to this approach. For instance, as Small notes, 'Beijing's counterterrorism strategy has been essentially parasitic on the United States being a more important target for transnational militant groups than China'. It's unclear how long that can last.
Nor does China want to shoulder the burden alone. When Osama bin Laden was killed at Abbotabad, the Chinese gratefully took a careful look at the crashed US stealth helicopter but then rejected Pakistan's suggestion of a defence agreement and noted, pointedly, that it 'was not going to backfill for the Americans, and Islamabad urgently needed to patch up its relationship with Washington'. Small's final chapter describes the gradual shift from suspicion towards American bases in the region to growing concern about at a hasty US departure. As the chapter heading reads, 'Lord, make them leave – but not yet'. Such is free-riding. 
The dilemma, suggests Small, is the contrast between Beijing's impatience in the seas to the east, where 'China looks uncomfortably like a bully', and its caution in the west, where 'Beijing has sat passively watching developments in the region that are inimical to its interests'. This volume makes a credible case that China is likely to respond to these challenges not by cutting Pakistan loose, as India might hope, but by deepening an admittedly complex relationship with its only real friend in the world. The question is whether the areas of growing friction will be more serious than in previous post-American spells.
It's hard to be shocked by news from a country where 55,000 people have died as a result of terrorism in the past decade, but yesterday's terrorist attack on a school in Pakistan has produced revulsion worldwide.
Pakistani attitudes towards the perpetrators, the Pakistani Taliban, known within Pakistan by the acronym TTP, are complex and evolving. Pew's wide-ranging public opinion survey, published in August, contains some important and disturbing findings.
At the time of the survey, 8% of surveyed Pakistanis held a favourable view of the TTP. This is a small proportion, and belies the notion of widespread popularity. Nonetheless, on a crude extrapolation, it would amount to a staggering 14 million Pakistanis. Although a much larger slice of the population holds negative views of the Taliban (59%), this disapproval rate has fallen steadily from a high of 70% in 2009, a year when the Pakistani army was engaged in intense fighting with the militants in the Swat Valley. Depressingly, it is the lowest level of disapproval in six years.
A second finding is that the TTP is still seen as the lesser of two evils. 51% of Pakistanis say India is the greatest threat to their country, while just half that number say the same of the Taliban. This is in contrast to last year; though India remained the uppermost concern in 2013, the gap had narrowed quite a bit.
More specifically, Pew's survey notes that residents of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa – the province containing Peshawar, the site of Tuesday's school massacre – see India as a greater threat than do most other Pakistanis. Imran Khan, whose party controls the provincial government there, has frequently expressed sympathetic views towards the TTP and associated militants, insisting only three weeks ago that he would not have sent the army into tribal areas.
It should also be noted that a steady stream of army-sponsored nationalist propaganda has persuaded many Pakistanis that India is, in fact, arming and training the TTP. As the journalist Omar Waraich noted on Twitter, 'the problem is less sympathy for the Taliban, of which there is little, but denial among those who believe Muslims don't do this'. One Twitter hashtag circulating yesterday, for instance, read #StopIndianTerrorismInPak.
Complicating things further, Pakistan's military establishment, and its sympathisers, have long sought to distinguish between militants deemed to be useful to the state and those considered dangerous. Only last month, Sartaj Aziz, the foreign affair advisor to Pakistan's prime minister, asked, with particular reference to the Haqqani Network: 'some (militants) were dangerous for us and some are not. Why must we make enemies out of them all?' This longstanding ambivalence has compromised the state's ability to counter violent extremism across the spectrum, particularly given the complex web of linkages between different Sunni jihadist groups in Pakistan.
How reliable is all this data? The Pew survey was conducted from April to May 2014. This was just months after government-backed peace talks and a ceasefire with the Pakistani Taliban had collapsed, resulting in a spurt of violence. It was, however, before a major military offensive by the Pakistan army into North Waziristan, Operation Zarb-e-Azb, which began in mid-June and has killed 1100 militants in four months, according to the army. It is possible therefore that the past six months of fighting have hardened Pakistani attitudes towards the Taliban, much as occurred in previous rounds of fighting, and that Pew's figures underestimate growing popular opposition.
But it is deeply troubling that, despite a stream of high-profile attacks, negative views towards the Taliban have fallen in recent years, and that a small but not-insignificant minority continue to express support. Moreover, the Line of Control between India and Pakistan has been ablaze for months, so the gap in threat perceptions between India and the Taliban might even have widened over the second half of this year.
Tuesday's attack, relatively novel in its sheer scale and its targeting of children, will undoubtedly hurt the Taliban's reputation further. That the Government has committed to continuing its military offensive, rather than pursue another ceasefire in desperation, is a positive sign. The question is whether the imagery and testimony from Tuesday – a teacher burnt alive in front of students, reported beheadings, and the Taliban's promise that this is 'just the trailer' – will serve as a catalysing moment, reversing the trend in attitudes of the past few years, or whether it will go down in history as just one more vicious attack marking a downward spiral of violence.
After a week of swirling rumours, Ashton Carter, the deputy defence secretary from 2011-2013, has been all-but-announced as President Barack Obama's nominee for secretary of defence.
Although Carter now needs to get confirmed, and will face particularly strong grilling on his views on US strategy in Iraq and Syria, it looks as though his confirmation will be a great deal smoother than Hagel's tortuous process: Carl Levin, chair of the Senate Armed Services Committee, has said 'he would be a great choice', and Levin's successor come January, John McCain, has expressed approval.
India will be watching Carter's path through Congress with particular interest. On Wednesday, the Indian news agency IANS headlined its report 'India friend Ashton Carter is Obama pick'. The New York Times' South Asia bureau chief called Carter 'one of India's favorite US officials', the defense journalist Ajai Shukla cheered the 'superb news', and others were similarly effusive.
Carter has a longstanding interest in India. In 2006 he wrote a long and nuanced essay in Foreign Affairs on the much-maligned US-India civil nuclear deal, arguing that, though it was unbalanced and problematic, it was worth pursuing for the sake of a 'strategic realignment'. Then in 2011 Carter was appointed deputy secretary of defence. Ajai Shukla argued that, in this role, Carter was responsible for 'bulldozing the Washington bureaucracy into moderating its hands-off attitude to India', pushing forward the Defence Trade and Technology Initiative (DTI, a body designed to help smooth the flow of advanced American technology to India), and proposing the unprecedented co-manufacture and even co-development of key weapons systems. Even though India has been steadily buying US arms, there seemed to be something sluggish about US-India ties. Carter looked like a bright spot in those lean years.
In an article for Foreign Policy in November last year, as he came to the end of his tenure, Carter emphasised 'DoD's decision to change its mindset regarding technology transfer to India from a culture of "presumptive no" to one of "presumptive yes"'. Carter framed this change in the context of the US rebalancing to Asia, but also within Asia – from 'existing partnerships in Northeast Asia' to 'new bilateral and multilateral collaboration in Southeast Asia and elsewhere'.
Two months before he wrote that, Carter had suggested, on a September 2013 visit to India, that Delhi and Washington co-develop the next-generation version of the Javelin anti-tank missile, something that he underscored was 'an entirely new proposal intended to reflect the DTI, and it's being offered to no other country but India'. This was a potentially far-reaching proposal, and it seems fair to assume Carter was the animating force behind it. But India stalled, and recently, to Washington's great disappointment, opted for a large purchase of Israeli Spike anti-tank missiles over the existing Javelin.
However, co-development isn't off the table yet. According to Indian press reporting on Monday, India's defence research organisation, DRDO, and the defence ministry have shortlisted five possible areas for cooperation: naval guns, mine scattering anti-tank vehicles, unmanned aerial surveillance system, Javelin missiles, and aircraft landing systems for carriers. Apropos the carriers, the hints have been there: September's Modi-Obama joint statement alluded to 'enhancing technology partnerships for India's Navy', and the plugged-in Ashley Tellis had in September urged 'US decisions to partner with New Delhi on developing India's next-generation aircraft carrier'.
As defence secretary, Carter will have a lot more on his plate than India, of course. US strategy against ISIL is in flux (one factor in Hagel's departure), Russia continues its brinksmanship with Europe, and China is challenging the pivot. The Pentagon is also in a bruising budgetary clash with Congress, with so-called sequestration mandating automatic cuts that could mean the US defence budget shrinks by 'almost a trillion dollars by 2021'. And, as Carter himself wrote in Foreign Affairs earlier this year, 'the Pentagon is ill equipped to address urgent needs that arise during wartime' – making the procurement system more flexible and adaptive will be a priority.
Carter will also have to overcome serious obstacles in Delhi, including India's longstanding refusal to sign the so-called Communications Interoperability and Security Memorandum of Agreement (CISMOA) and Logistics Support Agreement (LSA), two agreements that US law deems necessary for certain aspects of technology transfer. For instance, Iskander Rehman recently explained how India's rejection of CISMOA and another protocol, the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement for Geospatial Cooperation (BECA), meant that the sophisticated P-8I Poseidon maritime surveillance aircraft purchased by India were 'delivered without secure and encrypted communications, and satellite navigational aids'.
But with Obama and Modi having established a personal connection, a new Indian defence minister now in place, and other arms suppliers – not least France and Israel – making progress in Delhi, the time is ripe for Carter, from a higher perch, to give a fresh push to the proposals he set in motion last year.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's much anticipated and greatly feted visit to Washington has divided opinion.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, New York, 26 September 2014 (Flickr/Narendra Modi)
The writer C. Raja Mohan concluded in the Indian Express that Modi and Obama had 'restored energy and direction to bilateral relations', and that Modi himself had 'brought much-needed clarity to Delhi's strategic calculus on America'. The German Marshal Fund's Dhruva Jaishankar, though warning that 'genuine collaboration' was some way away, hailed it as 'one of the most unusual and remarkable visits abroad by any Indian prime minister'. Yet Michael Kugelman, writing in the Wall Street Journal, called it 'long on pageantry and short on substance', and former Indian diplomat Kanwal Sibal saw 'no concrete announcements' and a lack of eye-catching results'. 
Richard Rossow at CSIS suggested that the 'greatest strategic fissure', India's strict nuclear liability law and its effect on American nuclear companies, went entirely unaddressed. But it is clear that the two countries are making incremental but notable progress on a host of other important issues.
Their joint statement , as well as a co-authored op-ed in the Washington Post by Obama and Modi, was a powerful statement of 'strategic and global partnership'. As the Stimson Center's Joshua White noted , India's previous Congress-led Government 'believed much of this, but wouldn't have said it' out of sensitivity to real and perceived domestic political anti-Americanism.
1. Commitment to counter-terrorism against a very specific set of Pakistan-linked groups , including – as India has long demanded – those, such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and D-Company, both of which are of particular concern to Delhi.
2. US acknowledgement that India is ready for membership in key missile and nuclear export control groups (the Missile Technology Control Regime and Nuclear Suppliers Group), something that would represent the latest stage in its gradual entry into parts of the non-proliferation regime – of obvious interest to Australia as it debates its recent civil nuclear agreement with India. 
3. New areas of defence cooperation, including a US commitment to work with India's future National Defence University, an expansion of military-military partnerships, and 'enhancing exchanges of civilian and military intelligence'. Much anticipated joint weapons development didn't quite make the cut, although this seems to remain on the table awaiting Indian approval. 
4. Although China went unmentioned, the South China Sea did not,  a first for US-India statements. More importantly, an implicit parallel was drawn between the US pivot ('rebalancing') to Asia and India's own engagement with East and Southeast Asian nations, something that, however mild, constitutes one of the strongest indications of Indian support for the US policy (see the suitably petulant reply from the People's Daily). The leaders also agreed to upgrade the US-India MALABAR naval exercises and explore 'technology partnerships' for the Indian Navy, perhaps a very oblique allusion to earlier hints of joint shipbuilding. 
Each of these four steps does no more than build on foundations laid down by Modi's two predecessors, albeit with considerably greater enthusiasm than the previous Government was inclined to muster towards the end of its tenure. In the context of Modi's intensive engagement of US allies, including Japan and Australia, as well as other Chinese rivals, like Vietnam, this is significant.
The question is whether it adds up to something truly strategic – a greatly abused term. Writing before the visit, Ashley Tellis, the former US official and strong advocate of deepened US-India ties, had warned of the 'strong temptations both in Washington and in New Delhi to focus on the myriad initiatives' at the expense of the deeper question of 'why they should be forging a strategic partnership to begin with'. Tellis is clear that the 'core strategic imperatives' are simple: preserve a 'favourable Asian balance of power' and, for India, 'increase its bargaining capacity with formidable rivals such as China'.
But it is far from clear whether a critical mass in Delhi sees it this way. Although the bitterness from last October's diplomatic spat over the arrest of an Indian diplomat in New York is long gone, it's less clear whether India is convinced that its security and bargaining capacity are this inextricably bound up with a strong US-India partnership.
For instance, although Modi exhorted the US to go slow in its withdrawal from Afghanistan, many Indians still feel that US policy as they see it – premature departure, and shortsighted reconciliation with the Taliban – impinges adversely on India, far from helping it. Kanwal Sibal, quoted earlier, concluded his own assessment of the trip by pointing out that 'resolving problems with the US remain difficult, despite positive intentions'; that he didn't feel the need to enumerate these problems is, itself, telling. 
Moreover, as the Indian journalist Praveen Swami argued in the Indian Express on Tuesday, many in Delhi see in Washington a power in physical or intellectual retreat from areas of Indian concern – the Middle East, Central Asia, and even the Asia-Pacific. I think this is putting it too strongly, and over-extrapolates from some cases (Iraq/Afghanistan) to others (Asia), but it reinforces the point that India does not yet have its own complete answer to Tellis' question.
In the short-term, however, Modi's visit will probably dampen talk of a stalling relationship, and that restoration of momentum might prove to be extremely important.  
Prepare yourself for a glut of feeble anthropomorphic metaphors (elephants, pandas, tigers, and dragons are all anticipated) and bloviating communiqués: India-China diplomacy is underway.
President Xi Jinping today begins the first Chinese visit to India since the election of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Laying the groundwork for this trip, Indian Vice President Hamid Ansari traveled to Beijing in June, followed by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval last week.
Xi's arrival is rich with symbolism, as the trip begins not in Delhi, as would be typical, but Ahmedabad. This is the commercial capital of Modi's home state, Gujarat, viewed by many (though not all) as a model of development for the rest of India. It is by some measures the most economically free state in India, and is still frequently invoked by Modi.  
All this underscores the commercial dimension of India-China ties, a narrative that suits India, since it glosses over border disputes and regional competition, and reinforces Modi's twin foreign policy priorities of development and regionalism. From inviting the leaders of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) countries to his inauguration, to visiting Bhutan and Nepal, to resolving a maritime border dispute with Bangladesh, Modi has given admirably sustained and high-level attention to the India's periphery. This is something the previous government valued in theory but neglected in practice. Modi also decided to visit Tokyo (in September) before Washington (later this month), emphasising that his engagement with Asia would be paramount.
More specifically, the lure of future Chinese investment, a purported US$100 billion over the next five years and 'thrice the investments committed by Japan' during Modi's recent trip to Tokyo, has considerable value and little political downside (notwithstanding Nitin Pai's measured warning that Beijing seeks to use such investments as carrots and sticks). All this is couched in Modi's own cringeworthy neologisms.
The commercial narrative also suits China, which has been selling its proposal for a 'maritime silk road', a high profile but nebulous initiative to recreate a historic Chinese trade route through the Indian Ocean by developing maritime infrastructure and setting up free trade zones. During a visit to India last week, I found that most Indians continued to be baffled by the whole idea and slightly irked at China's reluctance to provide more details. One Indian naval officer has suggested that the scheme is a way for China to 'soften' and re-brand the much-maligned 'string of pearls', and the director of India's National Maritime Foundation has dismissed it as 'essentially a Chinese ploy'.
It was therefore unfortunate timing that the Maldives, which Xi also visited this week, decided to hand to a Chinese a firm a US$500 million infrastructure project which had earlier been in Indian hands. India's imperative for regional connectivity and inward investment clash with its suspicion of China's long-term intentions. This is a structural problem that transcends Modi and Xi, and it will continue to give Sino-Indian commercial ties an awkward, tense edge. This is something that is obviously absent in the official pronouncements but more than visible in any Indian newspaper. Full-throated Indian endorsement of the maritime silk road is therefore unlikely, particularly as India appears to be scrambling to turn an old cultural project for the Indian Ocean, Project Mausam (meaning 'Season'), into a copycat initiative. 
More broadly, Xi's visit also has to be seen in the context of Modi's engagement with both Australia and Japan, both US allies concerned about the implications of growing Chinese power and assertiveness.
Modi signed a long-awaited and landmark civil nuclear agreement with Australia, dissected by Rory Medcalf and Danielle Rajendram last week. Although he could not finalise a similar deal with Japan, his visit to Tokyo did yield progress on the bilateral defence relationship, including a Japanese sale (and possible co-production) of the US-2 amphibious aircraft. In recent weeks, Modi's government has also been hyperactively leaking that India is in the 'advanced stages' of talks with Vietnam over the sale of the supersonic BrahMos cruise missile, which has been jointly produced with Russia. India and Vietnam, which the (ceremonial) Indian president is currently visiting, also signed a pointed statement on freedom of navigation in the South China Sea only yesterday. 
India is therefore fostering a web of commercial and military ties across the region, the sort of 'middle power coalitions' that Rory Medcalf and Raja Mohan have described in their recent paper, while prioritising economic interaction, avoiding the language of containment or even balancing, and resisting 'a bloc-based Asian order with alliances and counter-alliances'. These relationships don't just strengthen India's regional influence; they also force China to court India more intensively, as it did in the decade after the US-India rapprochement. The trick is in getting the balance right, diversifying and upgrading India's Asian relationships as much as possible without provoking a Chinese reaction or getting dragged into others' disputes. 
On the whole, this points to continuity. It is notable, for instance, that after years of condemning the Congress-led Government for pusillanimity in the face of Chinese border incursions, this Government has acted identically, resolving the latest reported incursion, last week, at the usual tactical level rather than escalating the problem. Modi is fine-tuning Indian foreign policy, not recasting it.
To receive a digest of posts from The Interpreter via email, enter your email address: