2015-07~07
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Bangkok-forcibly-returns-more-than-90-Uyghurs-to-China-34726.html

THAILAND Bangkok forcibly returns more than 90 Uyghurs to China
Bangkok (AsiaNews) - More than 90 ethnic Uyghur, including several women and children, have been forcibly deported to China. They are accused of illegally entering Thailand, having fled from Beijing persecution in the north-western region of Xinjiang.
This was reported by the World Uyghur Congress (WUC), an organization of exiled Uyghurs based in Monaco, which shows how the detainees, after more than a year in prison in Thailand, were transported from prison to the military airport near the capital Bangkok. The news is also confirmed by the Turkish newspaper Yenisafak, contacted by a social worker who attended detainees at the airport.
Bilal Degirmeci of the Turkish aid group Cansuyu, told the paper: " We have learned that Uyghurs were taken to the military airport in handcuffs with three military vehicles. “[The authorities] said 50 male and 25 female detainees were taken from the Bangkok detention center. "  According to the WUC’s source, the women and children from the five detention centers had already been taken onboard, while the men had “resisted getting on a plane heading to China” amid a heavy Thai army presence at the airport". The Thai army is using “a special chemical gas” to knock the men unconscious and force them onto the plane, the source said.
The WUC said it was “gravely concerned” about the fate of the Uyghurs, noting that the consequences of their repatriation were likely to include criminal allegations used to justify punishments that would be inflicted on them upon their arrival in China. "The children - continues the statement - are in deep shock, unable to comprehend the cruelty engulfing them at the airport. The crying plea of women is falling on deaf ears, disappearing over the horizon. The situation of the men is still unknown. "
Beijing  has been cracking down on the Uyghur community for a long time. The Uyghurs are a Muslim minority that lives in the Chinese region of Xinjiang. The population speaks a Turkish dialect and considers itself much closer to the tradition of Central Asia than China.
Since the 11 September 2001 attacks in the United States, Beijing has seen the Uyghurs as terrorists affiliated to al-Qaeda, accusing their members of receiving training in military camps in Afghanistan before returning home and threatening the Chinese territory. Also in recent times China fears that the Uyghurs may adopt the ideology and tactics of the Islamic state extremists.
The policy of discrimination against this minority has resulted in a mass migration, which passes from the territories of Central and South America, especially through Thailand and Malaysia. To curb this immigration, Beijing has signed a series of extradition deals to bring Uyghur detainees back to home soil.
AsiaNews spoke to Josephine, one of hundreds of Christians from Al-Hasakah, who spent a year in the hands of the Islamic State group. She talked about psychological suffering, conversion attempts, and separation from her male relatives. She survived thanks to her faith. Her mother Caroline, a Caritas official, is the only one in her family to have been spared the ordeal. She also negotiated their release with IS, and gave a Jihadi copies of the Bible. Now she hopes “to meet the pope” with her entire family.
Sister Rani Maria was killed in 1995, stabbed 54 times. The murderer was a radical Hindu, incited by village leaders, who wanted to stop the nun's activities in favor of tribal poor. The path "that led me to forgive Samunder Singh has not been easy, but now he's my brother." Instead, "my mother said once: 'I would kiss his hands, because on them there is the blood of my daughter'." The exchange of the Indian bracelet that celebrates love between siblings; the moment of encounter with the victim's mother.

 
2003 © All rights reserved - AsiaNews C.F. e P.Iva: 00889190153 - GLACOM®
Copyright ÂŠ 2003 AsiaNews C.F. 00889190153 All rights reserved. Content on this site is made available for personal, non-commercial use only. You may not reproduce, republish, sell or otherwise distribute the content or any modified or altered versions of it without the express written permission of the editor. Photos on AsiaNews.it are largely taken from the internet and thus considered to be in the public domain. Anyone contrary to their publication need only contact the editorial office which will immediately proceed to remove the photos.