2015-07~07
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-07-10/thai-embassy-closed-in-turkey-after-uighur-protests/6612012

Thailand closes embassy in Turkey after protests against contentious Uighur deportations turn violent - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)
Thailand has closed its embassy and consulate in Turkey after a protest against the country's decision to deport Uighur Muslims back to China turned violent.
The international community and rights groups condemned the deportation as Uighur Muslims are allegedly being persecuted in China due to political unrest.
The closure of Thailand's embassy in Ankara and consulate in Istanbul comes after anti-Chinese demonstrators stormed the latter, smashing windows, damaging furnishings and pulling down the sign outside.
It was the latest protest in Turkey over the treatment of the Turkic-speaking, largely Muslim Uighur minority in China's north-western Xinjiang region, where Uighurs say they face cultural and religious repression.
Scores are believed to have fled the restive area in recent years, sometimes travelling through South-East Asia in hope of resettling in Turkey.
In Thailand, the fate of some 400 Uighurs had been shrouded in uncertainty since March 2014 when they were detained for illegal entry while authorities verified their nationalities amid a tussle between Turkey and China over where they should be moved.
The junta-ruled kingdom revealed on Thursday that around 100 Uighurs were deported to China on Wednesday, while an earlier group of 172 women and children were sent to Turkey in late June.
News of the sudden China deportations sparked international condemnation including from the United States and the United Nations, culminating in the Turkish protests.
In Bangkok, Thai government spokesman Werachon Sukhondhapatipak told reporters that "the government has ordered the Thai embassy and consulate to close temporarily today".
"We will assess the situation on a daily basis," he said, adding all was currently under control with no Thai nationals affected, while citizens had been warned to remain on alert.
According to a Turkish news agency, an Asian tourist was attacked by pro-Uighur protesters in Ankara as they thought she was Chinese.
Responding to criticism over the China deportations, Mr Sukhondhapatipak said that high-level Thai officials would travel to the country next week to follow-up on the returned group.
But Thailand's prime minister Prayuth Chan-ocha defended the move, saying: "If we send them back [to China] and there is a problem that is not our fault."
Uighurs in Xinjiang, who number around 10 million, have long said they face discrimination.
More recently China has launched a wide-ranging crackdown in the region in response to rising violence which authorities blame on Islamist separatists.
Under pressure from Beijing, countries including Cambodia, Malaysia and Pakistan have all in recent years forcibly returned members of the ethnic minority to China.
On Thursday the United States expressed "grave disappointment" in Thailand.
"We condemn Thailand's forced deportation on July 9 of over 100 ethnic Uighurs to China, where they could face harsh treatment and a lack of due process," the state department said in a statement.
The UN says the deportation was a violation of international law, referring to the principle of non-refoulement which prohibits the transfer of people to a place where they are at risk of rights abuses.
But Mr Prayuth continued to defend the legal status of the repatriation because China had "guaranteed their safety".

Topics:
world-politics,


 
 government-and-politics,


 
 sects,


 
 unrest-conflict-and-war,


 
 turkey,


 
 thailand,


 
 asia

For information on how you can help, visit abc.net.au/appeals or call 1800 811 700.
If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC.
The PM's manoeuvres over the budget, double dissolution and industrial relations legislation have a familiar Turnbullian feel.
Unless you make plans and talk to loved ones you're unlikely to have any say in how and where you die.
In a fast-changing competition, which AFL teams can improve enough to break into this year's top eight?
From the thin blue line on the pregnancy test to the flat line on the ECG — every day Australia's healthcare system pays witness to the highs and heartbreaking lows of human life.

This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.


AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)
