2015-07~07
http://www.juancole.com/2015/07/trump-backpedal-things.html

Donald Trump Tries To Backpedal But Can’t Stop Saying Racist Things | Informed Comment
“Donald Trump continues putting his foot in his mouth, Trump retweeted something he probably regrets and made hideous comments about Univision. When Trump was asked by Fox & Friends whether or not his brand has been damaged he gave a surprisingly honest answer. Cenk Uygur, host of The Young Turks breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.”
The Young Turks: “Donald Trump Tries To Backpedal But Can’t Stop Saying Racist Things”
Posted in Latinos,Republican Party,US politics | 13 Responses | Print |
Trump should have said America’s demand for drugs has allowed the Mexican cartels to make huge profits and the violence associated with drugs has caused much of the illegal immigration. Mexico isn’t sending us their best people but that doesn’t apply to the drugs. America demands the best and we have the money to pay for it.
There is some hope. The American public doesn’t like racism. Whatever our political system’s faults are, it’s kept him out of power too.
Hard to backpedal when his racism only has one gear…
The Donald should defend himself by saying other Republican candidates feel the same way, but know they won’t win the nomination if they agree with his remarks.That’s the reason Trump is ONLY being criticized by the left. In 2012, look what happened to Rick Perry after he came out in favor of amnesty for the children of illegal immigrants. His very slim presidential hopes deflated faster than a tire with a blowout.
Trump needs to hire some illegal immigrants to wave the Confederate flag as they’re coming across the border. The Donald is a “lost cause” if that doesn’t happen.
@cenkuygur Now that its finally costing him money! Having alot of money doesn’t entitle you to run a country.
@cenkuygur “Firing Back”? Should be called “Stepping Deeper In It”.
@TheYoungTurks my dad had a saying…” Every time he opens his mouth he loses I.Q. points
Thank you to all of my supporters for your generosity and your encouragement of an independent press! Checks to
 Juan ColeP. O. Box 4218Ann Arbor, MI48106-4218 (No Parcels Please)
