2015-07~07
http://www.turkishweekly.net/2015/07/29/news/turkey-china-talk-trade-importance-during-erdogan-trip/

Turkey, China talk trade importance during Erdogan trip - The Journal of Turkish Weekly
Prior to delegate talks in the Great Hall of People, Erdogan told media that both countries had paved the way for strategic cooperation in 2010 and were now "ready to put those plans into practice."
 "We took the first step in 2010 with China with a strategic alliance, and we are now in the practice phase. We are looking at our relations with China from a strategic way," he said.
"This visit will strengthen the understanding between our nations and help cement friendship between our people," he added.
The three-day trip is Erdogan's first to the country as president, and follows a previous visit in 2012 as prime minister.
Since his first election win of 2003, diplomatic relations -- established between the two countries in 1971 -- have significantly improved, peaking over the last 10 years through several high-level bilateral visits.
President Xi Jingping highlighted the importance that such relations remaining on a firm footing Wednesday, saying that he hopes they will continue to be "rich in content."
The countries signed several agreements over the course of the afternoon, among them a Memorandum of Understanding on Establishing a Cooperation Committee between Turkey and China on Deputy Prime Ministers' Level, and a Development Plan for Middle and Long Term about Mutual Encouraging and Protection of Investment Between Turkey and China.
Erdogan began his visit with a trip to the Monument to the People's Heroes in Tiananmen Square where he placed a wreath.
After an hour-long closed door meeting with Prime Minister Li Keqiang, he headed to the National People's Congress for a 30-minute meet with Zhang Dejiang, the head of the country's parliament and the ruling Communist Party's third ranked leader.
Accompanying Erdogan were Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu, Health Minister Mehmet Muezzinoglu, Transport Minister Feridun Bilgin, Economy Minister Nihat Zeybekci and Energy Minister Taner Yildiz.
The trip follows a difficult period between the two countries after around 180 Uighur Turks held at detention centers in Thailand were sent to Turkey, and a subsequent 109 moved to China.
The Uighur -- thought to number around 350 -- had been at the center of a diplomatic tug-of-war, with China identifying them as from northwestern Xinjiang, while Turkey welcomed them as its own.
Turkey had also voiced concerns over reports that members of China's Muslim community had been banned from fasting - concerns that led to protests against China's embassy and flag burning by nationalist Turks.
Erdogan said Tuesday that during his visit ministers would meet representatives from the Uighur and Hui Muslim communities.
On leaving China on July 30, Erdogan is scheduled to fly to Indonesia, where he will meet President Joko Widodo and participate in a Turkey-Indonesia Business Forum.

By Enes Kaplan 
* Anadolu Agency correspondents Satuk Bugra Kutlugun and Feyza Susal contributed to this report from Ankara.