2015-07~07
http://www.freedistrict.com/asia/china/uighurs-in-china-sent-back-9886.html

Uighurs In China, sent back SouthEast ASIA News
The Uighurs  are a Turkic ethnic group living in Eastern and Central Asia. Today, Uighurs  in China live primarily in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in China, where they are one of 55 officially recognized ethnic minorities.
The Uighurs in China refugees are being treated well at a rehabilitation center where they’ve been held since their return to China from Thailand this month sparked an international outcry , Thailand’s national security chief said.
They were treated well in a rehabilitation center and in a good condition.
According to National Security Council Secretary General Anusit Kunakorn.”  The center was clean. The plates were all sanitized, It’s like a recovery center, not a corrections facility. It was even better than when they were with us, when the conditions were quite poor.”
The UN refugee camp agency, the US and others criticized the repatriation. Istanbul protesters ransacked the Thai Consulate to denounce the decision.
Monday, the state media said that in Beijing, China, a member of its mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority who planned a bomb attack after returning from a training camp in Syria was arrested
On a prison confession from the man it identified as “Aikebaier”, CCTV said that Aikebaier had travelled to Syria via Turkey sometime after 2013 and received “bomb-making training”.
Report said that, there is no assurance that he went back to China, but he was shown in a prison vest with a shaved head, saying that he planned an explosive attack on a shopping centre in the northern city of Shijiazhuang.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for exiled group the World Uyghur Congress, slammed the CCTV report, implying that authorities had used coercion.
Dilxat Raxit said that, “For the sake of their family’s safety, arrested Uighurs have no other choice than to become propaganda tools for the Chinese government”. Image courtesy of virpazar.com
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
TwitterFacebookGoogle+BufferFollow @FreedistrictFormer NBA star Lamar Odom in critical condition after found taking cocaine and sexual performance enhancers. The 35 year-old reality TV star and former NBA Lamar Odom was hospitalized after being discovered unconscious at the Dennis Hof’s Love Ranch brothel in Crystal, Nevada, 13 October 2015, Tuesday. He is reportedly taking cocaine and sexual […]
TwitterFacebookGoogle+BufferFollow @FreedistrictPattaya Gay Scene Thailand – Pattaya is a touristy beach resort less than two hours from Bangkok with a large gay scene. Definitely worth a visit, especially if you’re interested in go-go bars or freelancers. These days, the scene also includes some non-commercial venues. Pattaya is like taking the commercial gay scene of Bangkok […]
Know Thyself - There has been much discussion throughout history as to the exact meaning of the … Read More...
The premature birth risk among pregnant women was notably greater when exposed to high levels of small particle air pollution, a study has found. The researchers identified a 19% higher risk of women giving birth prematurely if they are exposed to fine particle air pollution during pregnancy. The premature birth risk was highest among those mothers […]