2015-07~07
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2015/07/30/one-year-after-a-fatal-shooting-in-restive-xinjiang-nagging-questions-remain/

One Year After a Fatal Shooting in Restive Xinjiang, Nagging Questions Remain - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
More than one year after his wife was shot dead at a police checkpoint while driving in China’s far western region of Xinjiang, Zhang Zhenhai is looking for what he sees as a satisfactory explanation.
“I’m still waiting for specifics on what happened,” said Mr. Zhang, who heads the local arm of the state tobacco company. “I’ve sent letters appealing almost everywhere inside Xinjiang and to the central government authorities, but so far there has been no response.”
The incident attests to the level of tension in the restive region, which has seen sporadic outbursts of violence against Chinese rule by Turkic-speaking Uighurs, a mainly Muslim ethnic group. Beijing calls these attacks domestic terrorism inspired by separatists and Islamist militants. Last year, after an uptick in knife attacks and bombings, the government declared a yearlong anti-terror campaign that featured police checkpoints and mass detentions.
On the afternoon of July 18, 2014, Mr. Zhang’s wife–a Han Chinese named Li Wenjie–was driving the couple’s daughter to a piano competition when she came to a temporary checkpoint in Xinjiang’s Aksu prefecture. Not all of the details of the incident are clear but Mr. Zhang quotes witnesses, including his then seven-year-old daughter, as saying his wife, a music teacher, didn’t stop her car — though he says she was not instructed to stop.
Mr. Zhang produced photographs of the scene showing a sign indicating there was a checkpoint ahead. But it is unclear whether Mrs. Zhang could see any policemen at that point and officials merely say she drove past the checkpoint without stopping. Police fired a single shot which struck Mrs. Zhang in the head, killing her instantly.
Officials say it was meant to be a warning shot but it accidentally went astray. They also take issue with Mr. Zhang’s criticisms that the government has been unresponsive.
Du Haitao, secretary at the party’s political and legal affairs committee in Aksu’s Wensu county, where the incident took place, told China Real Time: “Authorities gave the case a great deal of attention. They made their investigation and it was determined to be an accidental death.”
Mr. Zhang insists on getting more information and he has sent letters to top Communist Party officials, including party chief Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang, asking for help. He has reached out to numerous outlets of the official media but he says he has been unable to get to the bottom of the incident. Step by step he has become increasingly exasperated, and according to his own account, at one point barged into the office of the local party chief Zhao Li, shouting at her: “You must give me an explanation!”
Aksu has seen its share of unrest from Uighurs, many of whom have long complained of Beijing’s sometimes heavy-handed policies in asserting its control over Xinjiang, a sprawling region three times the size of Spain. In recent years, the level of violence has increased dramatically, at times spilling over to other parts of the country, including the capital Beijing itself.
Verifying information on unrest in Xinjiang is difficult but the South China Morning Post reported hundreds of people took to the streets of Aksu in April of last year to protest the police shooting of a 17-year-old student after he failed to stop at a checkpoint. The newspaper reported that residents paraded the body through the streets.
Six people were shot dead by police and six others were killed when explosives they were carrying detonated in Aksu in January last year, according to state media.
And in the regional capital of Urumqi on May 1, 2014, the same day that China’s Communist Party chief wound up a high-profile visit to Xinjiang, knife-wielding attackers slashed passersby and detonated bombs outside a key railway station. Three people were killed and 79 injured, according to official reports. Mr. Xi  called for “decisive actions” against terrorist attacks after that bloody incident.
Mr. Du, the political and legal affairs official in Wensu, said the incident took place in an “emergency period,” adding the family was paid compensation totaling about 1.1 million yuan ($160,000). “Perhaps the family expects more,” he said.
Asked if one of his objectives was to obtain more compensation, Mr. Zhang said: “I just want to know how my wife died.”
He said he also wants to know if the policeman involved is still on the job and whether he was disciplined.
“I’ve asked local authorities why they never gave me a specific explanation, and I was told because there is a shortage of police,” he said. “They don’t want this issue to affect other policemen there.”
Mr. Zhang also spoke of a prevailing sadness at home and his daughter’s nightmares that relive the bloody incident. “It’s rare to see on smile on the my daughter’s face now.”
–William Kazer and Olivia Geng. Follow William on Twitter @WKazer and Olivia @keikogfy.
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

Are we sure his wife wasn't black?
Wasn't there some kind of American exchange program around that time, would explain a lot.
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
