2015-07~07
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/reuters/article-3157871/China-protests-U-S-condemnation-Uighur-deportations.html

China protests U.S. condemnation of Uighur deportations | Daily Mail Online

Published:
 20:20 EST, 11 July 2015

 | 
Updated:
 20:20 EST, 11 July 2015


BEIJING, July 12 (Reuters) - China's Foreign Ministry has
lodged a protest with the United States for its condemnation of
the deportation of a group of Uighurs from Thailand last week,
as state television showed pictures of some being returned with
hoods on their heads.
Hundreds, possibly thousands, of Uighurs keen to escape
unrest in China's western Xinjiang region, have travelled
clandestinely via Southeast Asia to Turkey.
China is home to about 20 million Muslims spread across its
vast territory, only a portion of whom are Uighurs, who speak a
Turkic language.
The deportation of 109 Uighurs from Thailand this week has
sparked anger in Turkey, home to a large Uighur diaspora, and
deep concern among rights groups and the United States, due to
fears they could be mistreated upon their return.
China's Foreign Ministry, in a statement late on Saturday,
said the U.S. statement distorted the facts, was prejudiced and
would only encourage further illegal immigration.
"China is extremely dissatisfied and resolutely opposed to
this, and has already made serious representations with the U.S.
side," the ministry said.
"We urge the U.S. side to properly view China's efforts to
fight illegal immigration and stop making wrong statements."
A senior Chinese police officer said on Saturday that some
of the Uighurs who have ultimately ended up in Turkey are being
sold to fight for groups like Islamic State as "cannon
fodder".
Chinese state television, also in a report late on Saturday,
said 13 of the 109 were terror suspects, and showed images of
some of them sitting in an aircraft with black hoods over their
heads and Chinese police, wearing facemasks, beside them.
Beijing denies accusations by human rights groups that it
restricts the Uighurs' religious freedoms. It blames Islamist
militants for a rise in violent attacks in Xinjiang in the past
three years in which hundreds have died.
Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the exiled group, the World
Uyghur Congress, said the pictures of Uighurs in hoods gave him
great cause for concern.
"They've been stripped of their dignity," he said in an
emailed statement.

 (Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group