2015-07~07
http://hpuy.com/tag/forced/

Forced | Dont worry , be horny!
According to the New York Times, Apple engineers have been discussing their options with each other in case Apple loses a court hearing scheduled for next Tuesday. At the hearing, DOJ attorneys will tell the judge why Apple needs to comply with a court order requiring it to unlock the Apple iPhone 5c that was used by deceased terrorist Syed Farook, and turn over information found inside the handset. Apple will explain why it cannot comply with the order.
Technically, Apple has no way to get what the government seeks from them, unless it develops a unique operating system (dubbed Govt.OS) …
PhoneArena

The Indian army candidates were made to sit cross-legged on the floor of a field in Bihar and take the written exam in their underwear following a spate of cheating in the eastern state.
Rock shot to fame after Princes William and Harry enjoyed holidaying there in the late 1990s but the increased popularity of ‘the St Tropez of Cornwall’ could lead to its waters becoming unsafe for swimming
The victim was crossing Cheetham Hill Road in Manchester earlier this month, when she noticed the man walking closely behind her
David Mann, 50, who lives in a £90,000-a-year rented flat in London, agreed to support his 48-year-old wife Shelley for life after they divorced in 1999, but no longer has the means to pay the settlement.




Dungey becomes the first female African-American to run a broadcast network.

Air traffic controllers were told one of the pilots sustained a ‘medical issue’ following the incident, which occurred shortly after take-off while the plane was just six miles west of Heathrow.
The Mail on Sunday has established that major corporations including tobacco giants, insurers and hoteliers have been awarded payments from HMRC.
Barry Richardson has enjoyed a long, meandering career as a goalkeeper across the English soccer pyramid. He played most of his career for Lincoln City and Northampton Town in the early and mid-90’s, and hasn’t played a league game since 2002 or any game since 2005. Richardson signed on with League Two’s Wycombe Wanderers two years ago as their goalkeeping coach, and he’s quietly worked in that position, until today, when he played the final 75 minutes of Wycombe’s 1-0 win over Plymouth Argyle.
During pre-production on its latest virtual reality short, Dear Angelica, Oculus Story Studio found itself in a peculiar situation: The chosen art style, illustration, had necessitated a design pivot. Rather than scan and rebuild the drawings of illu…
© 2016 Dont worry , be horny! | garbage for some people = treasure to others