2015-07~07
http://www.khaleejtimes.com/international/rest-of-asia/3-chinese-uighur-militants-get-6-years-jail-in-indonesia

3 Chinese Uighur militants get 6 years jail in Indonesia - Khaleej Times
Suspected militants Abdulbasit Tuzer, Ahmet Mahmud and Abdullah, also known as Altinci Bayyram, at their trial hearing at North Jakarta District Court in Jakarta(AP)
Jakarta - An Indonesian court on Monday sentenced three members of China's ethnic Uighur minority community to six years in prison after finding them guilty of conspiring with Indonesian militants, including a fugitive who is on the nation's most-wanted list.
A panel of judges at the North Jakarta District Court ruled that Ahmet Mahmud, 20, Abdulbasit Tuzer, 24, and 28-year-old Abdullah - who also goes by Altinci Bayyram - guilty of violating the nation's anti-terrorism and immigration laws.
The men were arrested in September, along with another Uighur named Ahmet Bozoglan and three Indonesian men, while they allegedly were trying to meet Indonesia's most-wanted militant, Abu Wardah Santoso, in Central Sulawesi province.
Santoso, the leader of a group called the East Indonesia Mujahideen, is accused of killing several Indonesian policemen and has pledged allegiance to the Islamic State group. Indonesia has outlawed membership in the group.
Presiding Judge Kun Marioso said the panel of three judges found the defendants had conspired with a Santoso-led terrorist group in Poso in Central Sulawesi and used fake Turkish passports. Poso was the site of violence between Christians and Muslims in 2001 and 2002 in which more than 1,000 people died.
The defendants were also ordered to pay $7,535 each or spend six additional months in custody.
Bozoglan and the three Indonesian men are being tried separately, with verdicts expected later this month.
Indonesian authorities initially thought the four Uighurs were from Turkey, which has linguistic and ethnic ties with the Uighur homeland of Xinjiang, a region in northwestern China.
65-year-old Tenzin Delek Rinpoche was serving a 20-year sentence on... READ MORE
Television footage showed rescue workers hauling large chunks of... READ MORE
Television footage showed rescue workers hauling large chunks of... READ MORE
A panel of judges at the North Jakarta District Court ruled that... READ MORE
So far there are no injuries, but there's also no information on... READ MORE
Hashemi had been sentenced to death after being found guilty of... READ MORE
The report says the figure, which runs up to the end of April 2015,... READ MORE
Employees who terminate their employment after the completion of two... READ MORE
Dubai Customs foils attempt to smuggle 1kg heroin at Terminal 2
Air India Express flight delayed for 2 hours, passengers swelter
At least 15,000 civilians killed in Iraq since 2014: UN
Ramadan through the eyes of a non-Muslim - Day 25
Get the latest news around the World in your inbox, so you dont missout on the action.