2015-07~07
http://www.economist.com/news/asia/21657810-optimism-flickers-about-prospects-peace-distant-hopes

Distant hopes | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
EVEN by Afghanistan’s murderous, war-torn standards (see chart) it has been a gory week. More than 100 civilians were injured or killed in acts of terrorism in just 48 hours. Yet, after the first meeting in years this month between an Afghan government delegation and senior leaders of the Taliban insurgency, the prospects for peace actually look better than for a long time.
That is mainly thanks to Afghanistan’s president, Ashraf Ghani. He has taken big risks to improve relations with Pakistan, whose influence can sway the Taliban. But also the pressures on the Taliban have changed. The rise of other extremists loyal to Islamic State (the blood-drenched group that controls parts of Iraq and Syria) has made the Taliban zealots appear almost moderate by comparison.  
Both sides face challenges from their own sides. Mr Ghani’s courtship of Pakistan, an arch-enemy detested by many Afghans, has allowed his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, to emerge as a spoiler. Portraying himself as a protector of Afghan sovereignty, Mr Karzai is thought by some to be plotting a return to power. He presided over a regime so corrupt that the Taliban were able to pose as liberators. Yet some Afghans are now nostalgic for his rule.
Taliban leaders are also divided. Some field commanders, fed up with what they see as feeble leadership, have defected to Islamic State. Their sanctuaries are under threat. After an attack on a school in Peshawar in Pakistan in December by the Pakistani Taliban, which killed more than 140 people, the Pakistan army has grown less tolerant of insurgent havens.
The Taliban have changed since they were driven from power in Kabul in 2001, and now accept that they are unlikely ever again to rule the whole country. As Franz-Michael Mellbin, the EU’s ambassador in Kabul, puts it: “They fully understand that if their goal was to re-establish the regime from 2001, they might as well close up shop.” So their best chance of winning legitimacy is to enter politics. It is also the best hope of ending the war, though to what extent Mr Ghani is willing to share power is uncertain. Many Afghans would find the idea of the Taliban joining the cabinet repellent, but would accept it if it brought an end to a conflict that has spluttered on for nearly four decades.
Such considerations are still distant. At their meeting in the hill town of Murree outside Islamabad, the two sides did little more than size each other up. A spokesman for Mr Ghani called it a “brainstorming session”. All they agreed on was to meet again after Ramadan, the fasting month, with a “comprehensive list of concerns and demands”. But that is progress. The Taliban have in the past refused direct talks with the Kabul government, which they denounce as an American puppet.
Another cause for optimism is the involvement of China, which has encouraged the talks, and has a powerful influence over Pakistan. Nervous about the spread of radicalism among members of the largely Muslim Uighur minority in its western region of Xinjiang, China has an interest in a stable Afghanistan. In May it facilitated an informal meeting in Xinjiang’s capital, Urumqi, between the Taliban and Afghan officials.
Anything more than tentative optimism would be premature, however. It is not even clear whom the Taliban delegation at Murree represented. Its members were said to have close links to Pakistan’s spy agency, the ISI. They were swiftly denounced after the meeting by the Taliban’s political office in Qatar, though a statement purportedly from the group’s overall leader, Mullah Omar, later endorsed the talks. Nor is it known how closely Taliban leaders hiding in Pakistan (such as Mullah Omar, spooks suspect) co-ordinate operations in Afghanistan. Since the withdrawal of most foreign troops from Afghanistan last year, Taliban field commanders have stepped up attacks on the Afghan army. No one expects a swift let-up in the violence. Military gains would strengthen the Taliban’s position in any serious negotiation. So even optimists in Afghanistan see no end soon to its long, bloody nightmare.
The nuclear deal with Iran is better than the alternatives—war or no deal at all
The opening of Mexico’s energy market and the busting open of its top-security jail are linked
A deal between Greece and Europe averts one disaster, and hastens the next
The internet of things is coming. Now is the time to deal with its security flaws
The uptight island-state has much to celebrate. But to thrive in the future, it will have to loosen...
A momentous day for Iran as it signs a nuclear deal with America that may yet transform the Middle...
Scott Walker is a serious addition to the 2016 field, with a blind spot about a changing America
A drug lord leaves behind an empty cell and a trail of awkward questions
But not that much harder in the United States than in Mexico
The “point people” who lubricate elections in the capital’s slums
An election in Myanmar may produce more questions than answers
The coal that fuels China’s boom is becoming less deadly to extract
China says that by locking up lawyers it is defending the rule of law
The biggest threat to African peace and prosperity comes from a dangerous idea
Fractious relations with the West are prompting Israel to turn elsewhere
Does the United Arab Emirates really have the dirtiest air in the world?
A chastened nation, and its leader, face more hard choices
Term set by Greece’s creditors raise more questions than answers
Whatever they feel about Europe, Greeks with energy now feel thwarted
If anything, Germans are more hawkish on Greece than their leaders
In the old Yugoslav war zones, new waves of travellers stream north
As in Soviet days, the state is making it harder for many to holiday abroad
Built to foster friendship, the euro is manufacturing misery instead
Many migrants think Britain is the promised land. Is it?
The awesome influence of Oxbridge, One Direction and the Premier League
Scarce housing and stagnant productivity hobble the economy. Are they linked?
Our outgoing columnist reflects on the threats to Britain’s integrity
Everybody knows today’s sportsmen are better than their predecessors. But working out how much...
Comparing modern golfers with champions of old is trickier than escaping from a pot bunker with a...
To continue to flourish in its second half-century, South-East Asia’s miracle city-state will need...
Space on the island is getting tight. Singaporeans fear that foreigners are taking up too much of it
When it comes to elections, the PAP leaves as little as possible to chance
Two big, simple government promises—of a home and a comfortable old age—have become harder to...
After decades of prudence, Singapore is well prepared for most eventualities
In managing Singapore’s global business niches, the government still seems ahead of the game
A sense of vulnerability has made Singapore what it is today. Can it now relax a bit?
Latin America’s oil firms need more foreign capital, but a historic auction in Mexico shows that...
Negotiating a new labour contract for American carmakers will prove tricky
EBay’s split should make investors happy—and corporate divorces more popular
You do not have to travel to the emerging world to discover emerging markets
Financiers in London are always predicting their industry’s demise. This time, they may be on to...
The sale of transport concessions is unlikely to pep up the economy
Our burger benchmark finds that the greenback is too dear
New research suggests it is debt, not frothy asset prices, that should worry regulators most
In the nascent “internet of things”, security is the last thing on people’s minds
At last, a mysterious dwarf planet is ready for its close-up
Self-control improves your prospects. But it may harm your health
Ever since the second world war spies have pushed the development of computers
An ordinary book gives no real hint of the delights that were to come
Yevgeny Primakov, Russian spy, diplomat and politician, died on June 29th, aged 85
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
The TEFAF Maastricht fair: Breaking down the barrier between craft and art
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more