2015-07~07
http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2015/07/14/shifting-reports-on-china-police-shooting-raise-questions-over-xinjiang-link/

Shifting Reports on China Police Shooting Raise Questions Over Xinjiang Link - China Real Time Report - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
Just hours after a deadly police shooting in China this week, several leading Chinese media outlets took down reports that tied the incident to alleged terrorists from the restive region of Xinjiang—a move that signaled an apparent shift in the official version of events.
At least four Chinese media outlets—a state-run news agency and three commercial newspapers—published reports late Monday saying police in the northeastern city of Shenyang had shot dead three “Xinjiang terrorists” and wounded a fourth during a counterterrorism sweep in the city, which is the capital of Liaoning province. They cited a purported Shenyang police statement, images of which were posted on a verified microblog account run by provincial propaganda officials.
But many Web-based versions of these news reports, which also appeared in print, became inaccessible by midday Tuesday, while the original microblog post was nowhere to be found.
What remained instead were terse official and state-media reports that mentioned the shootings without referring to Xinjiang—a western border region that is the homeland of China’s Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking and mainly Muslim ethnic group. Beijing has blamed Uighur “separatists” for a series of deadly incidents that have rocked Xinjiang and increasingly spilled over into other parts of China in the past two years.
It wasn’t clear why news reports that linked Monday’s shootings to Xinjiang were taken offline. An official at the Shenyang police’s command center said he wasn’t authorized to comment. An official at the Liaoning provincial propaganda department directed queries to the Shenyang municipal government, which didn’t immediately respond to a separate request for comment.
“Four knife-wielding terrorists resisted arrest as Shenyang police moved to capture terror suspects on July 13,” the city’s public-security bureau said on its verified Weibo microblog late Monday. “In order to prevent grave harm to society, and after warnings proved fruitless, police opened fire decisively and lawfully, killing three and injuring one. There were no casualties among the public.”
This brief account didn’t contain references to alleged Xinjiang radicals, which reportedly appeared in the Shenyang police statement published on Weibo by Liaoning propaganda officials.
Images of the statement, reviewed by China Real Time, said that police had arrested 16 “terror suspects” earlier Monday before coming across four “Xinjiang terror suspects” in a rental apartment. The four suspects—who were masked and carried long knives—shouted slogans about “holy war” and assaulted police officers, forcing the officers to open fire, killing three male suspects and wounding one female suspect, the statement said.
Police then arrested a 28-year-old Uighur woman—a registered resident of Xinjiang’s Luopu county—and three children that accompanied her, the statement said, without providing any details about the children. The statement’s contents couldn’t be independently verified.
This statement and its contents were reported by the state-run China News Service, as well as three leading commercial newspapers—Beijing News, Beijing Youth Daily and Shanghai-based The Paper. A person at Beijing News said censors had requested the newspaper to remove its online report that cited the police statement. However, copies of these reports reproduced by other online news outlets remained available as of Tuesday afternoon.
Ethnic tensions between Uighurs and China’s majority Han Chinese have escalated in recent years, with religious, political and economic overtones. Chinese authorities say violence lined to Uighur separatists has risen sharply, with attacks on train stations and other public places moving beyond the usual targets of police stations and other government buildings. Security forces have responded with measures that human rights and Uighur advocacy groups have denounced as oppressive.
Exile groups say the Chinese government restricts Uighurs’ ability to worship freely and engage in certain cultural practices. Beijing maintains that it does not discriminate against Uighurs and that its policies have helped bring stability to Xinjiang.
—Chun Han Wong and Olivia Geng. Follow Chun Han on Twitter @ByChunHan and Olivia @keikogfy.
Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email.
For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime

If only they had more guns, none of this would have ever happened.
Wait until they set off a car bomb in the Forbidden City. TILT !!
Will that be before or after the next streaker at the White House has an explosive vest?
Open voting/press/talking of the United states of the earth?
To let most ones face each other human beings good natures to seek science to solve problem and threats in long term--------fultill desires through sciences----for most ones support 1+1=2 likes and human made rules in line with most ones.
One man/party/God system in the earth level again?
Well most ones face each other evil natures in long term again like the past thousands of years.
Keep feedig up one man/party/God system?
What you expect anyway,human beings good and evil natures can't be eradicated,but the results can be most ones face each other good or evil natures throgh opposite side human made laws and political systems.
One man/party/God system?
Seeking power without restraining+human beings evil natures=crushing human rights not supporting in vertical time is the core interests.
Democratic system?
Most human beings with evil natures ain't want to face other human beings evil natures,to have voting rights to support rules in line with most ones including human rights----seeking developing science in line with most ones.
Human beings of all races and countries have good and evil natures,seeking opposite side human made laws and political system to crush each other in long term for human beings brain comparing functions.
Most ones?
The real most ones are ones in open comparing environments in vertical time line------------1+1=2 and human made rules in line with most ones get supportings more and more in vertical time line------------that is where 1+1=3,rules ain't in line with most human beings fear open voting,press,talking------------for most human beings support 1+1=2 likes human made rules in line with most ones.
Democratic system lead most ones to face each other good natures,one man/party/God systems lead most ones to face each other evil natures.
Now?
Democratic system still has the chance to win in the earth level,or the CCP can unite human beings evil natures to reign the earth also to let most ones face each other human beings evil natures for power without restraining of the CCP through crushing open voting,press,talking.
Your side peace in a human beings world?
Human rights get protected through its side guns not fancy words in front of human beings evil natures seeking one man/party/God systems,remember?
Weak engouh?
Pigs,cows,sheep are weak enough,so we eat them forever till we needn't-------------------human beings to be weak engouh?human rights ain't have its side guns for thousands of years-----------------read some human history.
Democratic system,human rights,peace based on your side rules ain't have its side guns for thousands of years till the United States of America.
Human rights ain't fall from the sky in human beings world,it is a interests of human made democratic system---but also crushing human rights is core interests of one man/party/God systems where they reign like the past thousands of years------------for most human beings have brain comparing functions.
The annual meetings of the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference offer opportunities to express views on possible law reforms.
With GDP growth slowing and social and demographic headwinds mounting, Chinese leaders face increasingly difficult tradeoffs concerning the country's military budget.
As China’s anticorruption campaign enters into its fourth year, the importance of inspection teams in catching corrupt officials has become obvious, writes Yiyi Lu.
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent visit to flagship news outlets in Beijing comes amidst a growing debate among observers of Chinese politics about Xi’s political strength and longevity.
If China’s anticorruption crusade is working so well in cleaning up the Communist party, why is Beijing worried that some think that the campaign is really just a struggle for political power?
China Real Time Report is a vital resource for an expanding global community trying to keep up with a country changing minute by minute. The site offers quick insight and sharp analysis from the wide network of Dow Jones reporters across Greater China, including Dow Jones Newswires’ specialists and The Wall Street Journal’s award-winning team. It also draws on the insights of commentators close to the hot topic of the day in law, policy, economics and culture. Its editors can be reached at chinarealtime@wsj.com.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.

Content engaging our readers now, with additional prominence accorded if the story is rapidly gaining attention. Our WSJ algorithm comprises 30% page views, 20% Facebook, 20% Twitter, 20% email shares and 10% comments.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
