2015-07~07
http://www.todayonline.com/world/poor-intelligence-porous-borders-stymie-chinese-control-uighurs

Poor intelligence, porous borders stymie Chinese control of Uighurs | TODAYonline
BEIJING - Poor intelligence and porous borders with Southeast Asia are stymieing China's efforts to stop the flow of ethnic minority Uighur Muslims heading to Turkey, where China says many of them end up fighting for Islamists in Syria and Iraq.
Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of Uighurs keen to escape strife in their far western Chinese homeland of Xinjiang have traveled clandestinely via Southeast Asia to Turkey.
Speaking to Reuters and a reporter from a Singapore newspaper on Saturday, Tong Bishan, a senior police officer who has been helping lead China's efforts to get the Uighurs back, said the Uighurs were mostly crossing into Vietnam and Laos.
Tong, in rare public comment on such a sensitive issue and on the difficulty facing authorities, said he believed the numbers getting out had fallen considerably but it was not possible to stop them completely.
"I've been to the front lines, to the border with Vietnam, it's mountains and rivers. In some places, the border is a little stream, two or three meters wide. Jump over and on the other side it's Vietnam. There's no fence or anything," he said.
Rights groups and exiles have disputed China's account of why the Uighurs are leaving, saying the driving cause is a desire to escape discrimination and Chinese controls on their culture and religion.
The government denies there is a problem with its treatment of Uighurs but hundreds of people have been killed in violence in Xinjiang in the last three years. Uighur militants have been blamed for attacks elsewhere in China.
One Beijing-based diplomatic source said China had been successful at stopping Uighurs from crossing into Central Asia via Kyrgyzstan, after Kyrgyzstan responded to China's request to step up security, and that had led to Uighurs trying to leave via Southeast Asia.
Still, even as security at transport hubs like train and bus stations in Xinjiang has been increased, Uighurs are Chinese citizens and have the right to travel anywhere in the country.
Tong said Uighurs, who speak a Turkic language, were using that right to get to border areas.