2015-07~07
http://enews.fergananews.com/news.php?id=3032

Kyrgyz President backs denouncing agreement with US, sets parliamentary poll date - Ferghana Information agency, Moscow

Home page | | | 
Gallery |About | mobile version 
 | 
ADVERTISE WITH US!

Kyrgyz President Almazbek Atambayev voiced an opinion that awarding the imprisoned rights advocate Azimjan Askarov by the US Department of State is a “thought-out provocation”. He also expressed his complete support of a condemning statement the country’s foreign ministry issued and a decision the government adopted to cancel a bilateral agreement with Washington.
“Many people say ‘Well, they awarded [him]—so what?’ But, as the saying goes, there is grass growing and some throw a burning coal in it. Maybe it will catch fire, maybe it will not. The award puts a thought in the minds of [ethnic] Uzbek [citizens of Kyrgyzstan] that they are ill-treated and these authorities would deliver no justice. That is how separatist attitudes are flurried. I am afraid this move the Department of State made is a thought-out provocation aimed at inciting interethnic strife. We said earlier: ‘Said your experts and see into [the case].’ It is wrong to issue a verdict based on NGOs’ opinions. We have a judicial system, whose decisions need to be implemented. For three and a half yeas, I am being forced into changing the Askarov verdict although they keep saying the judicial system must be independent,” President Atambayev told an informal meeting with journalists, political scientists and media experts on July 27, the 24.kg news agency reports.
“I am emphasizing once again: I support the decision and the statements of both the foreign affairs ministry and government. I would not want such a tragedy take place again. In 2006, an Uighur rights advocate [Rabia Kader] was awarded; bloody clashes in Xinjiang leave more than 200 people killed three years later. There are other examples. This does not leave one outraged.
“The most important [factor] for Kyrgyzstan is stability. So attempts to split us, create destabilisation and chaos—a controlled chaos—only outrage. We can see who genuinely wants a peaceful, prosperous and stable Kyrgyzstan, and those who need to have something happening and burning all the time,” the Vecherniy Bishkek newspaper quotes him as saying.
The meeting with journalists took place at the Chingiz Aytmatov Culture Centre in Cholpon-Ata, Issyk-Kul Region in the Kyrgyz east.
According to Akipress, President Atambayev believes US President Barack Obama, most probably, is unaware of the decision the Department of State adopted. According to him, Kyrgyzstan did offer establishing a commission and reconsider the materials of the case of Azimjan Askarov, but “there has been no answer. The European Union agreed to the offer, so a visit of experts is expected.”
Commenting on the denunciation of a bilateral agreement on easing the delivery of US humanitarian aid to Kyrgyzstan, President Atambayev stated the document included “benefits and privileges for people who are not supposed to have them.” No details as to whom he had in mind were made available.
President Atambayev has also told the meeting that there are foreign agents operating in Kyrgyzstan—forces that are financed by foreign entities, and they must be told about that openly.
President Atambayev has also expressed discontentment with the position, lamenting “certain parties, while in power, have one foot in the opposition. That said, one of these parties had a sitting prime minister. Such opponents of authorities do not benefit anyone. I would like to see an opposition that can defend their position.” According to the Kyrgyz president, there must be at least 4-5 political parties in the parliament, and opposition parties are a must. “This will allow them to hold a dialogue within the parliament walls, not on the street. Only short time is left until the elections. I think the parties that unite will win [elections]. This time vote rigging will not be allowed because biometric [data of voters] will not allow making [ballot box] stuffing,” the head of Kyrgyz state believes. The next elections to the Jogorku Kenesh [parliament] are scheduled for 4 Oct 2015.
The Kyrgyz president has also stated “the new parliament will raise the issue of amending the Constitution.” He clarified that he [instructed] drafting a bill on amending the Kyrgyz constitution because the nation did not have enough time to thoroughly study the document. “But the new Jogorku Kenesh will definitely raise this issue. It must be noted—there are things to be changed. It has specifically has to do with the judicial branch of power [because] there is no system there at this time,” the president clarified.
According to the Kyrgyz constitution, the parliament is unable to amend it until 2020. “The issue of amending the Constitution is not pressing; I think it will be under discussion for one to two years,” President Atambayev added.
Further, the president told journalists the Russian projects in Kyrgyzstan would be implemented in line with established schedules. He also said those trying to inhibit the development of ore mines must be dealt with force. He further promised not to allow officials to make business out of government position. Lastly, he assured he was not preparing a successor and does not see himself as either a prime minister or Speaker.
Opinions of the authors may not coincide with those of Ferghana news agency
Ferghana.Ru news agency will consider all submitted materials but retains the right not to contact their authors


E-mail address of the Editorial Office: ferghana@ferghana.ruAll rights reserved.Distribution of these materials via the Internet or via any other means without the permission of Ferghana.Ru news agency is illegal and punishable by law.The materials, or parts thereof, may not be reproduced in the Internet without hyperlinks. © Ferghana.Ru Design © Web Development: Alex Shatlovsky
