2015-07~07
http://www.timesofmalta.com/articles/view/20150713/world/jihadi-uighurs-returned-to-china-in-hoods.576405

‘Jihadi’ Uighurs returned to China in hoods - timesofmalta.com
Some of the Uighurs deported to China last week from Thailand had planned to go to Syria and Iraq to carry out jihad, China state TV said yesterday, showing pictures of them being bundled out of an aircraft with black hoods over their heads.
Hundreds, possibly thousands, of Uighurs keen to escape unrest in China’s western Xinjiang region have travelled clandestinely via Southeast Asia to Turkey. China is home to about 20 million Muslims spread across its vast territory, only a portion of whom are Uighurs, who speak a Turkic language and are from Xinjiang.
Last week’s deportation of 109 Uighurs from Thailand has sparked anger in Turkey, home to a large Uighur diaspora, and fed concern among rights groups and the United States that they could be mistreated upon their return.
In a report yesterday, China state TV said some of those deported had admitted to being incited by messages from the Eastern Turkestan Islamic Movement, which Beijing says is waging an insurgency for independence in Xinjiang, as well as the exiled group, the World Uyghur Congress.
“A fair number of them were stirred up and bewitched by terror videos issued by the East Turkestan Islamic Movement and World Uighur Congress,” the report said.
“While they were being trafficked, there were those who continued to impart and stress religious extremist thinking, instigating them to go to Syria and Iraq to take part in a so-called jihad”, it added.
A senior Chinese police officer said yesterday that some of the Uighurs who reached Turkey were being sold to fight for groups, such as Islamic State, as “cannon fodder”. At least 13 of those returned are suspected of terror offences, the TV report said. It showed images of people with black hoods over their heads and large numbers pinned to their chests as they sat in an aircraft surrounded by Chinese police.
Upon landing, they were led out with their heads held down, and at least one apparently in chains.
Beijing denies accusations by human rights groups that it restricts the Uighurs’ religious freedoms.
It blames Islamist militants for violent attacks in Xinjiang in the past three years. China has also denied allegations of mistreatment or torture. Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress, said the pictures of Uighurs in hoods showed they had been “stripped of their dignity”, adding that they wanted to leave China and live elsewhere without fear of discrimination.
“Their running away is all about a non-violent way to save themselves.”

See our
Comments Policy

Comments are submitted under the express understanding and condition that the editor may, and is authorised to,
disclose any/all of the above personal information to any person or entity requesting the information for the
purposes of legal action on grounds that such person or entity is aggrieved by any comment so submitted.

Please allow some time for your comment to be moderated.


Subscribe to gain access to our premium content and services. Your subscription will also enable you to
view all of the week's e-paper editions (both Times of Malta and The Sunday Times of Malta), view exclusive
content, have full access to our newspaper archive to download editions from 1930 to today, and access the
website in full from overseas. All of this will also be available to you from our tablet and mobile apps.

Copyright © Allied Newspapers Ltd., printed on - 21-03-2016 - Printed content is for personal use only, and should not be distributed