2015-07~07
http://www.ibnlive.com/blogs/world/zakka-jacob/how-to-build-a-city-out-of-nothing-the-chinese-way-14332-1014683.html

Zakka Jacob's Blog : How to build a city out of nothing - The Chinese way
If you've been tempted to read this blog because of the title, chances are you've never heard of the city of Horgos. Till about a week ago, neither had I. Horgos is at the western most tip of China, on the border with Kazakhstan. The word Horgos literally means "a place with excessive camel dung" in the Kazakh language. Not anymore. It is here, in this tiny city of just 75,000 people that China is building the future. It's own and that of the world.
In the last one year trade at this border point between China and Kazakhstan has increased by 500 percent. The flow of people has crossed more than 1.5 million trips, an increase of 300 per cent. And the reason is evident. According to Wu Hao who is the Deputy Director of the Horgos Economic Zone this rapid growth has to do with the announcement of Chinese President Xi Jinping's pet project One Belt, One Road. Horgos lies in the heart of OBOR.
China is throwing billions to make the New Economic Silk Road a success. Four years ago, this border point was declared a Free Trade Zone. But the contrasting picture on either side of the border tells a tale in itself. The Chinese side is plush with malls and duty free shops. It's buzzing with small traders and businessmen eager to reap the benefits of the new Chinese dream. The Kazakh side on the other hand, has just barren land and little else.

An hour away from Horgos is the capital of this prefecture. The city of Yining. Here too the infrastructure is mesmerizing. Swanky new eight-lane highways, plush residential buildings, even a state of the art gymnasium. The only thing missing is people. That little detail, Chinese officials say, will follow. The whole prefecture of Yili right now has about three quarters of a million people. The Chinese government expects it to reach 3 million by 2030. They are hoping to buffer some of the slowdown in the east of the country, the economic engine of China, by transporting an entire population from one end of the country to the other. Then again, the Chinese government is no alien to 'population engineering'.
The province of Xinjiang is at the western end of China. It is the only Muslim majority province in China. It is home to more than 21 million people, more than half of them Muslim. It is also home to the largest Muslim ethnic group the Uighurs. In Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang the demographics change dramatically. The city is dominated by the majority Han community. Less than a third are Uighurs. That's because over the years, the Chinese state has engaged in population engineering making it easier for the majority Han community to find employment or start a business in Urumqi. Since the 1970s, more than 90 percent of all immigrants to Xinjiang have been ethnic Han.

Over the years that's led to tensions between the minority Uighurs and the majority Han as well as with the Chinese state. In 2009, Urumqi saw the worst riots in history in which more than 200 people were killed, a large majority were minority Uighurs. Unsurprisingly, the real culprits have still not been brought to justice.
Back to Horgos and the China-Kazakh border. Later next week, Narendra Modi will become the first Indian Prime Minister to visit all five Central Asian countries Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Kyrgystan and Uzbekistan. India is hoping to wrest some influence in what is effectively China's backyard. At the same time, the Chinese will be opening the first ever high speed rail between Urumqi and Almaty. The great game of diplomacy in Asia is slowly but surely shifting from the seas to the mountains and deserts of Central Asia.

Disclaimer: The author was on recently on a trip to Xinjiang sponsored by the State Council Information Office of the PRC.

The cult of Narendra Modi keeps on growing. After being...
As I sit alone at 3:50 am contemplating how to...
There’s a story about Donald Trump which his daughter Ivanka...