2015-07~07
http://www.dw.com/en/chinese-police-shoot-dead-terrorist-uighurs/a-18582486

Chinese police shoot dead ′terrorist′ Uighurs | News | DW.COM | 14.07.2015

Officers in Shenyang have killed three Uighur men who they say were Islamist militants. Activists have said that Uighurs are merely being discriminated against by a "hostile" government.


Police officers in the northeastern Chinese city of Shenyang shot and killed three Uighur men carrying knives and injured a fourth on Monday evening, according to the local government and state media. They reported that the men were shouting about Islamic holy war, but declined to give any further details of the incident.

"When police pursued the terrorist suspects, four terrorists armed with knives resisted arrest. Police fired shots only after the terrorists ignored warnings," read an online statement from the Shenyang public security bureau before it was taken down without explanation.

State-run Beijing News, citing the provincial government, said the police had killed the militants when they resisted them during a raid.

"When the police tried to enter to investigate, four terrorists wearing headgear, holding knives and crying out 'jihad' hacked at the police," the Beijing News said. The news outlet reported that the men were from 
Xinjiang, the primary homeland of the Muslim Uighur minority, and that the "accompanying children" as well as one woman, also from Xinjiang, had been apprehended by authorities.

Activists say that Uighurs, 
targeted as separatists by the Chinese government, are simply fleeing violence in Xinjiang, where hundreds have died in recent years. The government blames the strife on Islamic militants and says Uighurs want to create their own breakaway state.

In a statement about Monday's incident, Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the exile group World Uyghur Congress wrote: "The accusation that they are suspected terrorists exposes China's hostile and discriminatory attitude."

"China's barbarian policy of shooting people dead before judicial interrogation should be prevented by the international community," said Raxit.
Thailand has forcibly sent back to China over 100 Uighur Muslims who had been detained in the country since last year. The United Nations has condemned the decision, saying the Uighurs could face persecution in China. (09.07.2015)
  

A strong earthquake has hit China's far western region of Xinjiang, killing and injuring several people, Chinese officials say. The region has a mainly ethnic Uighur population. (03.07.2015)
  

Chinese authorities have reportedly ordered Muslim shopkeepers in a Xinjiang village to sell alcohol and cigarettes in a bid to undermine Islam's hold on local residents. But will this work? DW speaks to James Millward. (11.05.2015)
  

Indonesian security forces have killed two ethnic Uighur Chinese militants following a shoot-out. The two men belonged to a militant network run by country's most wanted man.
China has announced the deaths of 28 people during a police crackdown in Xinjiang, home to many Muslim Uighurs. In September, the group allegedly launched a terror attack at a coal mine, killing more than a dozen people.
A military court in Thailand has charged two men accused of carrying out a bomb attack at a Bangkok shrine that killed 20 and injured 120 more. Officials describe them as Uighurs from China's Xinjiang region.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
