2015-07~07
https://nz.news.yahoo.com/a/28808563/fear-strikes-through-the-heart-of-thailand-as-uighurs-are-sent-to-china/

Fear for Chinese Uighurs accused of trying to join jihad - Yahoo New Zealand
Thailand confirmed it had forcibly returned 109 Uighur migrants to China, heightening tensions between Ankara and Beijing over the treatment of the Turkic language-speaking and largely Muslim minority.
Recent footage released by Chinese state television shows alleged terrorist sympathisers put to shame as they are sent back to China where they may possibly face persecution there.
The Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking Muslim minority in China's far western region of Xinjiang, have complained of harsh cultural and religious suppression as well as economic marginalisation under Chinese rule.
Beijing has accused Uighur separatists of terrorism in Xinjiang, where ethnic violence has left hundreds of people dead.
Chinese police said they shot dead three Uighurs in the north-eastern city of Shenyang, calling them “Xingjiang terrorists” who were using knives to resist arrest.
The Uighurs are regarded as 'brothers' in Turkey. However, China's treatment has bought upon concern in Turkey where they see themselves as sharing a common denominator - culture and religious views.
This has caused stir amongst Turkish protesters who attacked the Thai honorary consulate in Istanbul overnight in protest over Bangkok's expulsion of the Ugihurs, smashing windows and ransacking parts of the Thai Consulate in Istanbul.
Police in the capital, Ankara, are forced to use pepper spray to push back Uighur protesters that tried to break through a barricade outside the Chinese Embassy.
Thailand has been harshly criticised by the UN, the European Union and human rights groups for repatriating the 109 Uighurs back to China, where activists say they face persecution, instead of sending them to Turkey, which has accepted other Uighurs.
The UN refugee agency called Thailand's action "a flagrant violation of international law." The United States also condemned the deportations, and voiced deep concern about protection of asylum-seekers in Thailand.
Thailand's embassy in Ankara warned around 1300 Thais living in Turkey to "be on alert" following the attack. Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha on Thursday mooted the possibility of closing the embassy if the situation worsened.
The Uighurs were detained in Thailand more than a year ago, but claimed to be Turkish. A group of 173 were sent to Turkey after Thai authorities said they determined they were indeed Turkish, but the 109 were found to be Chinese, according to Thai deputy government spokesman Maj. Gen. Verachon Sukhonthapatipak.
Hundreds, possibly thousands, of Uighurs have fled unrest in China's western Xinjiang region where hundreds of people have been killed, prompting a crackdown by Chinese authorities.
China's official Xinhua News Agency, citing the Ministry of Public Security, said late Saturday that the 109 "illegal immigrants" had been on their way "to join jihad" in Turkey, Syria or Iraq, and that 13 of them had fled China after being implicated in terrorist activities.
A spokesman of the World Uighur Congress, Dilxat Raxit, said: “The so-called radicals are those who hope to flee China and live a stable and dignified life in a safe and free country,” he said.
A group of more than 170 Uighurs were identified as Turkish citizens and sent to Turkey, and nearly 100 were identified as Chinese and sent back to China, 52 remaining Uighurs would be sent back to their country once their nationalities were verified, Verachon said.
"It is very shocking and disturbing that Thailand caved in to pressure from Beijing," Sunai Phasuk, Thailand researcher at Human Rights Watch, told Reuters.
"By forcibly sending back 109 Uighurs, Thailand has violated international law. In China they can face serious abuses including torture and disappearance."
Weerachon told reporters that Thailand had asked China to look after the safety of the Uighurs sent back.
"China said it would look after the safety of these people," he said.
Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for China's foreign ministry, would not confirm whether the Uighurs had been deported to China but spoke in general terms about the issue at a daily news briefing on Thursday, saying the Uighurs were "firstly Chinese".
China is home to about 20 million Muslims spread across its vast territory, only a portion of whom are Uighur.
Sorry, we can't show this content as your browser does not support iframes.