2015-07~07
http://www.financialexpress.com/article/miscellaneous/protesters-attack-thai-consulate-in-istanbul-over-uighur-expulsions/98022/

Protesters attack Thai consulate in Istanbul over Uighur expulsions | The Financial Express
Turkish protesters attacked the Thai honorary consulate in Istanbul overnight, smashing windows and ransacking parts of the building, in protest over Bangkok’s expulsion of Uighur Muslims back to China.
Thailand confirmed on Thursday that it had sent nearly 100 Uighurs back to China, despite concerns among human rights groups that they could face ill-treatment and even torture.
China’s treatment of its Turkic language-speaking Uighur minority is a sensitive issue in Turkey and has strained bilateral ties ahead of a planned visit to Beijing this month by President Tayyip Erdogan. Many Turks see themselves as sharing a common cultural and religious heritage with their Uighur “brothers” and Turkey is home to a large Uighur diaspora.
The Istanbul protesters, using wooden planks and stones, smashed windows and broke into the consulate late on Wednesday, throwing folders and personal belongings on the floor, pictures and video footage published by local media showed.
It was the latest in a series of attacks in Istanbul in recent days, mostly by a youth group linked to the national opposition MHP, in protest at Chinese treatment of Uighurs.
A Chinese restaurant, its owner Turkish and its cook ironically Uighur, was vandalised last week, while a group of Korean tourists was mistakenly attacked in Istanbul’s historic Sultanahmet district, according to the Hurriyet newspaper.
Turkey has vowed to keep its doors open to Uighur migrants fleeing persecution in China, exacerbating a row with Beijing. Around 170 Uighur women and children arrived in Istanbul last week from Thailand, where they had been held for more than a year for illegal entry.
The Turkish government has yet to formally condemn the violence.
MHP leader Devlet Bahceli, whose party could become the junior coalition partner in the next government, said it was understandable for the protesters to have mistaken the Korean tourists for Chinese, in comments condemned on social media.
“These are young kids. One of them leads, the others follow. What feature differentiates a Korean from a Chinese? They see that they both have slanted eyes. How can they tell the difference,” Bahceli told Hurriyet on Wednesday.
“Our nationalist youth are sensitive about the oppression in China. They should be able to exercise their democratic right,” he said in an interview with the paper.
Beijing denies restricting the Uighurs’ religious freedoms and blames Islamist militants for a rise in violent attacks in its western Xinjiang region in the past three years in which hundreds have died.
Hundreds, possibly thousands, of Uighurs keen to escape the unrest have travelled clandestinely via Southeast Asia to Turkey. China is home to about 20 million Muslims spread across its vast territory, only a portion of whom are Uighurs.
Copyright ©
 The Indian Express [P] Ltd. All Rights Reserved.