2015-07~07
http://www.bignewsnetwork.com/index.php/sid/234623921

Thailand Rejects Claims it Killed Uyghurs Who Resisted Deportation
Our eNewspaper network was founded in 2002 to provide stand-alone digital news sites tailored for the most searched-for locations for news. With a traditional newspaper format, more than 100 sites were established each with a newspaper-type name to cover the highest-ranked regions, countries, cities and states. Each site operates independently providing around-the-clock local news coverage, global & business updates, RSS feeds, and news releases.
Established in 1999, each News.Net site specializes in local news, weather, international headlines, business and finance reports. The News.Net directory of sites covers every major region, country and city around the world, as well as U.S. states and industry sectors. Each independently-operated portal is networked throughout the social media spectrum and is administered by Mainstream Media EC on behalf of Big News Network.
Thai authorities confirmed?Thursday?it had forcibly repatriated nearly 100 Uyghurs to China, a move that drew criticism from human rights groups and protests in Turkey over the expulsion of the Turkic-speaking Muslim minority that suffers harsh repression under Chinese rule.
In a statement, the WUC had asserted that?it has "direct information over the phone from a source on the ground in Thailand who indicated that at least 25 men were also killed trying to resist boarding the plane."
But Thai government deputy?spokesman?Weerachon Sukhontapatipak?told Radio Free Asia?that "there was no such thing as claimed by WUC."
Figures given for the overnight deportation through a military section of Bangkok's main airport have ranged from 90 to 108. Thai officials said another 50 Uyghurs remained in the country awaiting determination of their status.
Thailand, run by a military junta that has suspended democracy and is accused of human rights abuses, appeared uncomfortable being caught in a dispute among China, the Uyghurs who have been fleeing repression in increasing numbers and Turkey, which has offered hundreds of Uyghurs safe haven in recent years.
"(If) they (Uyghurs) want to fight their way, just do it, but why cause friction between Thailand and Turkey, China or Uyghurs?" Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha, Thai prime minster, told reporters in Bangkok on Thursday.
Prayuth also said the repatriated Uyghurs "will be provided with justice and safety. China confirmed they will be given access to fair justice."
Those Chinese pledges are not taken seriously by human rights experts, who point to decades of systematic repression in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, as that region is formally called.
"This is akin to sentencing them to the worst punishment imaginable. Time and time again we have seen Uyghurs returned to China disappearing into a black hole, with some detained, tortured and in some cases, sentenced to death and executed," said Nicholas Bequelin, Regional Director for East Asia at Amnesty International.
"Deporting these people is a despicable act, and illegal under international law. If the Thai authorities go ahead with any further deportations, they will be putting the lives of many at risk," he said in a statement issued by the London-based rights watchdog.
The U.S. State Department also condemned Thailand's move, saying it put the 100 or more Uyghurs in a position "where they could face harsh treatment and a lack of due process."
In a statement from Washington, State Department spokesman John Kirby urged Thailand "not to carry out further forced deportations of ethnic Uyghurs" and called on China to "uphold international norms and to ensure transparency, due process, and proper treatment of these individuals."
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036 
