2015-07~07
http://www.dw.com/en/thailand-bombing-suspect-part-of-people-smuggling-gang/a-18682049

Thailand bombing suspect ′part of people-smuggling gang′ | News | DW.COM | 30.08.2015

Thai authorities say the man arrested in connection with last week's deadly bombing at a shrine in Bangkok is not cooperating with investigators. Police believe he is part of a people-smuggling gang.


The foreign suspect reportedly refused to answer any questions or provide details about whether he played a role in the bomb attack that 
killed 20 people and left scores wounded, Thai officials said Sunday.

Police spokesman Prawuth Thawornsiri also said the detained suspect may have been part of a people-smuggling ring helping illegal migrants obtain forged documents. The spokesman added it was possible the attack was in retaliation for a recent Thai crackdown on the trade in the region.

"They (the gang) are unsatisfied with police arresting illegal entrants," he told Channel 3 in an interview.

"The interrogation is not making progress because the suspect is not really giving useful information," army chief General Udomdej Sitabutr told AFP.

"We have to conduct further interrogations and make him better understand so he will be more cooperative - while we have to be careful not to violate the suspect's rights," he added.

The 28-year-old foreigner was 
arrested on Saturday at a flat in Nong Jok on Bangkok's eastern outskirts. Police allegedly found bomb-making materials as well as a stack of fake passports at the property. Police spokesman Prawuth said the materials were similar to those used in the bomb that went off at the Erawan Shrine in the heart of the Thai capital on August 17. He added, however, that the detained man may only be linked to the attack, not the bomber himself.

The suspect, whose identity is yet to be verified, is being held at an army base north of Bangkok on charges of possessing illegal explosives. Local reports suggested he could be from Turkey, but the Turkish embassy has denied the claim.

Following the blast, images were circulated of a yellow-shirted individual who was captured on camera leaving a bag at the scene of the explosion. It's not clear whether the man arrested Saturday is the same man in the video footage.

Thai police on Sunday were monitoring about 1,000 mobile phone numbers and checking photographs used in some 200 seized passports to track down other people who may have been involved in orchestrating the strike.

No group has 
claimed responsibility for the attack, which mainly killed tourists from across Asia. But local officials and experts have 
put forward a number of potential perpetrators and motives.

Some experts have suggested southern ethnic Malay insurgents, opponents of the military government and sympathizers of Uighur Muslims may be behind the bombing. Thailand forcibly repatriated more than 100 Uighur refugees to China last month, prompting an international outcry.
Thai police say they have arrested a foreign suspect in connection with a deadly bombing at a shrine in Bangkok earlier this month. They say bomb-making materials were found in the man's apartment. (29.08.2015)
  

Police said the trail had gone cold in the hunt for the bomber a week after 20 people were killed in Thailand's worst ever bomb attack. Investigators are unsure if the chief suspect is still in the country. (24.08.2015)
  

Thai authorities say international terrorists were probably not behind the attack on a religious shrine in Bangkok. At least 10 people appear to have been involved in the bombing that killed 20 people. (20.08.2015)
  

The death toll continues to rise following a bomb blast in a central shopping area. Reports suggest at least 16 people have been killed - including foreigners - and scores more wounded. (17.08.2015)
  

Malaysian police have arrested eight people on suspicion of being involved in the deadly bombing in Bangkok last month. The worst attack in the city's history has already impacted the country's tourism industry.
Thai authorities say international terrorists were probably not behind the attack on a religious shrine in Bangkok. At least 10 people appear to have been involved in the bombing that killed 20 people.
Experts in Bangkok have been sifting through debris after at least 21 people were killed and scores wounded in a blast said to have targeted foreigners. Officials say the attack has not yet been linked to any group.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
