2015-07~07
http://asiancorrespondent.com/134242/thai-official-109-uighurs-sent-back-to-china-are-being-treated-well/

Thai official: 109 Uighurs sent back to China are being treated well - Asian Correspondent
Thai National Security Council Secretary General Anusit Kunakorn talks to reporters at government house in Bangkok, Thailand, Monday. Pic: AP.
Thailand’s national security chief says 109 ethnic Uighur refugees who were involuntarily sent back to China from Thailand this month have been treated well since their return.
National Security Council (NSC) Secretary General Anusit Kunakorn was among five Thai officials who traveled to China last Wednesday, one week after the deportation that sparked international criticism and an attack on the Thai Consulate in Istanbul.
Anusit said Monday that the Uighurs were living in good conditions at a rehabilitation center in Xinjiang province in western China.
“China has shown sincerity and allowed us to check [the deportees], so we should not let others harm the country,” Mr Anusit said.
The Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking Muslim minority in China’s far western Xinjiang region. The group has complained of harsh cultural and religious suppression as well as economic marginalization under Chinese rule.
China has said the Uighurs who were sent back had left the country illegally.
Thailand said at the time that all of the migrants had been put through a national verification process and “only had documents saying they were Chinese”.
However, the deportation of the Uighurs caused international outcry earlier this month. Angry protesters attacked the Thai consulate in Istanbul, breaking windows and ransacking offices.
China warned its own citizens in Turkey to exercise caution.
The U.S. publicly condemned Thailand’s decision to go ahead with the “forced deportation”.
State Department spokesman John Kirby said in a statement that the action “runs counter to Thailand’s international obligations” and the U.S. is deeply concerned about the protection of asylum-seekers there. He added that the Uighurs could face harsh treatment in China.