2015-07~07
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/policies-politics/article/1835106/thailand-repatriates-about-100-uygurs-china

Thailand repatriates about 100 Uygurs to China, ignoring calls from international community | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Nine activists are arrested after vandalising Thai Consulate in Istanbul
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Thailand sent more than 100 ethnic Uygurs back to China on Thursday, ignoring calls from the international community to protect the group and ensure they were not forced back to face possible persecution by the Chinese government.
Government spokesman Major General Verachon Sukhonthapatipak said Thailand had assurances from Chinese authorities that “their safety is guaranteed”.
He said the group of 109 Uygurs had been in Thailand for more a year, along with others who had arrived in waves claiming to be Turkish. Thai authorities sought to verify all of their nationalities before relocating them, he said.
“We found that about 170 of them were Turkish, so they were recently sent to Turkey,” he said. “And about 100 were Chinese, so they were sent to China as of this morning, under the agreement that their safety is guaranteed according to humanitarian principles.”
The Uygurs are a Turkic-speaking Muslim minority in China’s far west Xinjiang region. The group has complained of cultural and religious suppression as well as economic marginalisation under Beijing’s rule.
Xinjiang, a vast region that shares borders with Russia and seven Central and South Asian countries, is home to about a dozen the ethnic minorities. The largest is the Uygurs, who number about 10 million, while there about 8.5 million Han Chinese, many of them recent settlers.
Beijing is also waging a war against terrorism in Xinjiang, where ethnic violence has left hundreds of people dead over the past two years. It has blamed religious extremism for the violence.
Beijing has express displeasure with Turkey for taking the other 173 Uygurs from Thailand last week.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said the Uygurs had left China illegally, and that Beijing opposes “any actions that aid and abet, or even support illegal migration”.
“We believe that the international community should share common responsibility for combating and preventing illegal migration,” Hua said.
The World Uygur Congress, a German-based advocacy group, said that those repatriated could face criminal charges and harsh punishment, possibly execution, under China’s opaque legal system – the reasons they fled China in the first place.
The US State Department and human rights groups like Human Rights Watch had urged Thailand to protect the Uygurs and not force them to return to China.