2015-07~07
http://renewables.seenews.com/news/china-s-titan-wind-energy-plans-300-mw-farm-in-xinjiang-483189

China’s Titan Wind Energy plans 300-MW farm in Xinjiang - SeeNews Renewables
Business news and intelligence for the renewable industry. The newswire goes beyond the familiar renewable markets of Western Europe and the US to encompass the potential of BRIC countries and emerging alternative energy stars in North Africa, Asia Pacific, Central and Eastern Europe.
July 7 (SeeNews) - Chinese firm Titan Wind Energy (Suzhou) Co Ltd (SHE:002531) said Tuesday it plans to invest some CNY 2.18 billion (USD 351m/EUR 318m) in 300 MW of wind power capacity in the eastern parts of Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region.
The company explained that the move is in line with its growth strategy for the downstream renewable energy segment and will bolster profitability. Titan Wind Energy aims to boost its installed green capacity to 2,000 MW within the next three-to-five years, it noted.
The firm’s unit in Hami city will build the facility by the end of the current year. It will secure the required project financing through bank loans and financial leasing deals, according to the statement.
Jiangsu-based Titan Wind Energy makes turbine towers and related parts and components both for onshore and offshore farms. The investment has already been given the green light by its board of directors and is currently subject to shareholders’ approval.
As a junior reporter at SeeNews Renewables, Militsa Mancheva is focused on the Chinese market and the rest of Asia. Solar and offshore wind are her mantras.
July 7 (SeeNews) - Chinese firm Titan Wind Energy (Suzhou) Co Ltd (SHE:002531) said Tuesday it plans to invest some CNY 2.18 billion (USD 351m/EUR 318m) in 300 MW of wind power capacity in the eastern parts of Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region.
The company explained that the move is in line with its growth strategy for the downstream renewable energy segment and will bolster profitability. Titan Wind Energy aims to boost its installed green capacity to 2,000 MW within the next three-to-five years, it noted.
The firm’s unit in Hami city will build the facility by the end of the current year. It will secure the required project financing through bank loans and financial leasing deals, according to the statement.
Jiangsu-based Titan Wind Energy makes turbine towers and related parts and components both for onshore and offshore farms. The investment has already been given the green light by its board of directors and is currently subject to shareholders’ approval.
As a junior reporter at SeeNews Renewables, Militsa Mancheva is focused on the Chinese market and the rest of Asia. Solar and offshore wind are her mantras.
SeeNews Renewables provides business news and intelligence for the renewable energy industry worldwide
To send comments and suggestions about news coverage or to report errors that call for correction:
renewables@seenews.com
 +359 2 80 12 677
To get information on
 our traffic, readers profile
 and prices, visit our 
Advertising page
 or contact us at advertising@seenews.com

Disclaimer
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Code of Ethics
 Copyright © 2016 SeeNews. All rights reserved.
