2015-07~07
http://www.timeslive.co.za/thetimes/2015/07/15/Scramble-to-free-detained-tourists

Scramble to free detained tourists - Times LIVE

 Mpumalanga magistrate's warning came as he denied another suspected serial rapist bail in the same court on Thursday afternoon.

 President Robert Mugabe, whose red-carpet stumbles are well known, warned his main opponent Morgan Tsvangirai to be careful not to trip on a step at a plush hotel in Harare recently, a newspaper reported on Sunday.

 US President Barack Obama arrived in Cuba today to become the first US president to visit the country in 88 years.

 South Africa will host a second “Africa Month” later this year‚ as the country attempts to dispel ongoing xenophobic tensions.

 Kaizer Chiefs held Asec Mimosas to a 0-0 draw in the second leg of their Caf Champions League first-round tie at Houphouet Boigny Stadium in Abidjan on Sunday‚ which was not enough to prevent Amakhosi exiting 1-0 on aggregate.

 Joe Pietersen missed a simple penalty after the hooter to leave the Sharks and Bulls tied for a 16-16 draw at Loftus on Friday.

 AB de Villiers announced himself at the World Twenty20 with a swashbuckling 64 and made Afghanistan pay heavily for dropping him twice as South Africa revived their campaign with a 37-run victory at the Wankhede Stadium on Sunday.

 With another $6.3-million up for grabs when the PGA Tour completes its Florida swing, it is an opportune moment to salute the prime architect behind such riches.

 More than two dozen players who feature in evidence collected from gamblers should be investigated for possible links to betting rings, an Italian prosecutor has told the BBC and BuzzFeed News.

 Nico Rosberg capitalised on a slow start off pole by world champion teammate Lewis Hamilton and superior tyre strategy over Ferrari to win the season-opening Australian Grand Prix on Sunday.

 In the build-up to a fight, it's not just Hekkie Budler who makes sacrifices - wife Roxy also has to do her bit.

 Bruce Springsteen has written an apology note for a schoolboy in case he was late to class after attending his concert.

 Bruce Springsteen has written an apology note for a schoolboy in case he was late to class after attending his concert.

 Zebra & Giraffe has announced that they are splitting up after eight years.

 Sunday Times and Delta Airlines are giving away three pairs of plane tickets to any American city.

 Paracetamol, a common over-the-counter pain-reliever, does not work in the treatment of osteoarthritis, a joint disorder afflicting tens of millions of elderly people.

 Erectile dysfunction (ED) is not just for older men. While studies show that even younger men battle the condition, most men may not be ready to talk about it.

 Dr Michael Mol and John Berry's new cookbook is aimed at the everyday family cook who has their eye on healthier meals, but that doesn't mean dessert is off the menu. Try their recipe for chocolate tartlets

 If you sign a contract that includes a clause which is not compliant with the Consumer Protection Act, does that mean that you forfeit that protection?

 Progress in reducing carbon intensity in the travel and tourism industry can be attributed to several actions, according to a new report by the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC).

 Although “no incidents involving defective inflators have been reported” Honda Motor Southern Africa on Thursday “expanded its recall campaign to replace Takata-supplied airbag inflators”.

 Australia's iconic Sydney Opera House and Harbour Bridge went dark on Saturday night, as the Earth Hour campaign to switch off lights to call for action on climate change began rolling out across the planet, organisers said.

 To Professor Mandla Makhanya, Principal of the University of South Africa

 All data is delayed by 15 min. Data supplied by Profile Data 
 Hover cursor over this ticker to pause.

One of the South Africans arrested in the northern Chinese region is 74-year-old Hoosain Ismail Jacobs, an Umkhonto we Sizwe veteran who served in the highly decorated Luthuli detachment and spent 27 years in exile.
Also detained are Salim Aziz Joosub, the brother of Vodacom CEO Shameel Joosub, and husband and wife doctors Feroz Suliman and Shehnaaz Mohamed. Suliman is a surgeon at a private hospital in Midrand.
They were in a tour group of 10 South Africans, nine Britons and an Indian.
Their families approached the aid organisation Gift of the Givers in an effort to get help for their loved ones.
According to the aid organisation's founder, Imtiaz Sooliman, the group was 30 days into a 47-day tour of China when all 20 tourists were detained at Erdos Airport on Friday morning.
Sooliman said no reason was given for the arrests, the detainees' cellphones were confiscated and they were denied access to embassy officials.
Their fate was realised only when their tour operator made the trip to Erdos 48 hours later.
Nelson Kgwete, spokesman for the Department of International Relations and Co-operation, said the South African embassy had been notified on Sunday.
"We can confirm that they were arrested, and we are providing consular assistance and are in contact with their families," he said. "We are liaising with the Chinese authorities."
Sooliman said: "The Chinese are now trying to find reasons for the detention, suggesting that some members were linked to a terror group, to a banned organisation, to watching propaganda videos in their hotel room."
Sooliman said the Chinese had agreed to release 11 of the 20 tourists, but they would remain in detention until flights out of China could be arranged. The earliest flights were for July 17, he said.
The other nine members of the tour group were being held without charge in a detention centre and were being accused of watching propaganda videos.
They are the five South Africans, three Britons and the Indian.
Shameel Joosub issued a statement through Vodacom yesterday, saying: "My family and I are deeply concerned for the safety and well-being of my brother, aunt and uncle. Along with other South Africans, British and Indian citizens, they were detained on July 10 by the Chinese authorities at the airport in Erdos, Inner Mongolia, and held without charge. We are in close contact with the South African authorities who are working to secure their release."
Joosub said the arrests were in no way linked to Vodacom.
Isabel Potgieter, spokesman for the SA British Commission, said that UK consular officials had met the detainees and were in contact with the Chinese government, working to get their nationals released.
Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa is currently in China on an official visit. His spokesman, Ronnie Mamoepa, would not be drawn on whether the deputy president would take up the matter with his Chinese hosts, referring the matter to the Department of International Relations and Co-operation.
China has in recent years adopted a hard line against apparent Islamic jihadists.
On October 13 last year people in the Xinjiang region were sentenced to death for apparent terrorist attacks. Xinjiang is the traditional home of Muslim Uighurs, which the government has blamed for Islamist separatist attacks.
On Monday, 109 members of the Uighur minority were deported from Thailand. China claims they were heading to Syria and Iraq to join the Islamic State jihadist movement.