2015-07~07
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/57050/20150709/thailand-defends-decision-deport-100-uighurs-china.htm

Thailand Defends Decision to Deport 100 Uighurs Back to China Following Public Backlash : Politics : Chinatopix
Demonstrators shout slogans as they attend a protest in front of the Thai Embassy in Ankara. Turkish protesters attacked the Thai honorary consulate in Istanbul overnight in protest over Bangkok's expulsion of the Uighurs, smashing windows and ransacking parts of the building.(Photo : REUTERS/Umit Bektas)
The Thai government has defended its decision to deport nearly 100 Uighur Muslim migrants back to China after several rights groups and the United Nations criticized the move as unlawful and dangerous. The Turkic-speaking minority allegedly face abuse and persecution in China.
Following the deportation of the group, the Thai consulate in Turkey was attacked by pro Uighur protesters on Wednesday night. 
A Thai government spokesman said Bangkok has received assurances from Beijing that it would ensure the safety of the deportees. "Thailand has worked with China and Turkey to solve the Uighur Muslim problem. We have sent them back to China after verifying their nationality," deputy government spokesman, Colonel Weerachon Sukhondhapatipak said during a press conference on Thursday.
Thai authorities have warned thousands of its citizens in Turkey to "be on alert" after the embassy attack.
The office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) expressed shock and disappointment over Thailand's decision, which they say openly violates international law. 
"I strongly urge the Thai authorities to investigate this matter and appeal to Thailand to honor its fundamental international obligations," Volker Turk, UNHCR's Assistant High Commissioner for Protection said. Volker added that the deportation of people back to a country where they fear abuse and persecution violates international laws enshrined by the UNHCR.
Reuters report indicates that another group of more than 120 Uighurs have been sent to Turkey after being identified as Turkish citizens. Thai's officials are yet to verify the citizenship of at least fifty Uighurs.
Thailand's Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said if any of the deported Uighurs faced any problems in China, it would not be Bangkok's fault and thus not their problem. He also discussed the possibility of temporarily closing down the Thai embassy in Turkey after it was ransacked by protesters.
China's relationship with the Turkic speaking Uighur minority, many of whom are Muslims, is both sensitive and complicated. The Uighurs are fighting for independence as they consider China a colonizer and still refer to Xinjiang as 'East Turkistan.'
Uighurs share a strong cultural and religious bond with Turkey and thousands have fled the recent spread of violence in the Xinjiang region. The Guardian reports that many Uighurs have sought refuge in South-east Asia, but Turkey is their ideal destination. 
Reports of Chinese abuse and prosecution of Uighurs have angered many in Turkey; creating a diplomatic rift between Ankara and Beijing. It may have also led to the cancellation or postponement of President Tayyip Erdogan's planned visit to Beijing.
Beijing has denied curtailing the religious freedom of the Uighurs. The government insists that Islamic militants are to blame for the recent violent outbreak in Xinjiang, China's western region. There are currently about 20 million Muslims in China.
During a press conference on Thursday, spokeswoman for China foreign ministry Hua Chunying said the Uighurs were 'firstly Chinese'. 
She also said that the government would investigate the Uighurs who left the country illegally and appropriate actions against those suspected of breaking the law. "China's relevant department will bring those who are suspected of committing serious crimes to justice according to law," Hua said.  "As for those who are not suspected of committing crimes or who commit lesser offences, we will find proper ways to deal with them."
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent MacBook Pro 2016 rumors revealed more potential features of the upcoming Apple laptop. read more