2015-07~07
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/diplomacy-defence/article/1844967/china-turkey-strengthen-cooperation-against-terror-and

China, Turkey to strengthen cooperation against terror and people smuggling | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
The leaders of China and Turkey on Wednesday agreed to strengthen cooperation in fighting terrorism and people smuggling, a senior Chinese diplomat said, after friction between the two states over Uygurs from China's Xinjiang province fleeing to Turkey.
Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of Uygurs - a largely Muslim ethnic minority that calls Xinjiang home - have left China illegally in recent years, travelling to Turkey via Southeast Asia.
This month, Thailand deported 109 of them to China, sparking anger in Turkey, home to a large Uygur diaspora, and feeding concern they could be mistreated upon their return.
"Security and law enforcement cooperation is an important area for the two countries and both have agreed to strengthen cooperation," Chinese deputy foreign minister Zhang Ming said after President Xi Jinping and his Turkish counterpart, Tayyip Erdogan, met in Beijing.
Xi welcomed Erdogan outside Beijing's Great Hall of the People, where the two leaders inspected a military honour guard before entering the ornate building for their meeting.
"We consistently advocate that China and Turkey should support each other on major issues and deepen their strategic cooperative [ties]," Xi said.
Zhang said Erdogan told Xi that Turkey regarded the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which Beijing says is waging a violent campaign for an independent Xinjiang, as a terror group.
"He said ... Turkey will not allow anyone to use Turkey's territory to do anything to harm China's national interests and security," Zhang said.
China has accused Turkish diplomats in Southeast Asia of providing documentation to Uygurs to ease travel to Turkey.
Asked about people smuggling, Zhang said: "China and Turkey both believe it is very important to strengthen international cooperation to fight against human trafficking."
Zhang declined to say if Turkey's long-range missile defence system tender was discussed. Turkey was open to an improved offer from its preferred bidder, China, in the tender, Erdogan had said ahead of his visit, reviving a deal that has raised security concerns among Nato allies
Premier Li Keqiang also met Erdogan in a separate meeting. China hoped to strengthen cooperation with Turkey in areas including new energy, communications and infrastructure to boost balanced trade, Xinhua cited Li as saying.
The premier also called for stronger cooperation in aviation, aerospace and finance, urging Turkey to offer convenience and support for Chinese investment.