2015-07~07
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/56589/20150706/authorities-caution-citizens-turkey-anti-china-protests.htm

Authorities Caution Citizens in Turkey Over Anti-China Protests : Politics : Chinatopix
Turkish protesters in Istanbul have burned Chinese national flags as they expressed their anger over the alleged repression of the religious freedom on Uyghur Muslims in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.(Photo : REUTERS/Romeo Ranoco)
China's Foreign Affairs Ministry has released a statement on Sunday warning Chinese nationals in Turkey to beware of retaliatory actions during protests by Turkish citizens against the alleged religious oppression of Muslim Uyghur people in Xinjiang by the Chinese government.
The statement, which says Chinese nationals in Turkey had been "attacked and distrubed," cautions travellers not to venture outside on their own and also not to attempt to approach or take pictures of the protesters, Reuters reported. 
Since last week there have been reports of anti-China protests in Istanbul. On Wednesday, protesters attacked a Chinese restaurant in the city and vandalized the property. As a result of the incident, the Turkish owner of the restaurant named 'Happy China,' has decided to shut the place down. 
Over the weekend, the protests continued. A group of Korean tourists were reportedly attacked on Saturday after protesters mistook them for Chinese nationals. On Sunday, more demonstrations took place with hundreds of protesters marching towards the Chinese  consulate building and burning the Chinese national flag, CNN reported. The protesters, who carried East Turkestan flags and chanted declamatory slogans, openly showed support for their "brothers" in Xinjiang.
Chinese authorities have been accused of banning Muslim civil servants, students and members of the Communist Party from fasting during Ramadan. But officials insist that actions taken to seperate religion from education and official duties are meant to prevent terrorism and the growth of religious extremism. The government has also denied claims that it is infringing on the religious freedom of Muslim Uyghurs. 
Last week, the Turkish Foreign Ministry released a statement addressing reports that Muslim Uyghurs in China are being prevented from fasting and performing other religious duties. The statement said that the "deep concerns" of the Turkish government had been communicated to the Chinese consulate.
However, on Wednesday, China's Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying censured Turkey for the criticisms. She called on Turkish authorities to restrain from using provocative words and also to respect China's sovereignty. 
Turks and the Uyghurs share many cultural connections - including linguistic and religious ties. Therefore, experts say many Turks see the plight of Muslim Uyghurs in China as a matter of personal concern. Last week, more than 170 Muslim Uyghurs from China, who were being held in Thailand after fleeing alleged persecution in their home country, arrived in Turkey, according to AP. The group were reportedly transferred to Turkey upon the request of the Turkish government. Turkish Foreign Minister Tanju Bilgic has vowed to keep the country's doors open to Muslim Uyghurs who are escaping repression in China.
Chinese authorities have been on high alert to prevent the wave of terrorism spreading all around the world from penetrating into the country. Last month, the Chinese government blamed Muslim Uyghurs, who filter in and out of the country's borders during their trips to Turkey and other Islamic nations, for the increase in terrorist attacks recently. Officials have expressed concerns that these travellers can easily join terrorist groups, such as the Islamic State, and infiltrate the country to carry out their nefarious schemes.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent MacBook Pro 2016 rumors revealed more potential features of the upcoming Apple laptop. read more