2015-07~07
http://www.worldbulletin.net/asia-pacific/161513/beijings-unnamed-war-against-islam

Beijing's unnamed war against Islam | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
The World Uyghur Congress has used a reported ban on Muslims fasting to ratchet up the rhetoric on China, this time accusing Beijing of "an unnamed war against Muslims and Islam."
"Unfortunately the world is still keeping silent," the Vice President of the Congress Seyit Tumturk told Anadolu Agency this week.
According to international media reports, the country has banned Ramadan in parts of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region for Muslim Party members, civil servants, students and teachers.
Tumturk called the area the only Muslim region in the world where people are prohibited to practice Ramadan fasting.
This year's apparent attempts to control fasting are not the country's first.
"It was the same last year," he claimed. "Around 3000 Uighur were massacred on the first day of Ramadan fast when they took to the streets protesting the prohibition."
He accused China of challenging the world with its "massacre" and "psychological pressure" of the people of "East Turkistan."
Many Turks refer to the Xinjiang Autonomous Region - the home to many ethnic minority groups, including the Turkic Uighur people - as East Turkestan.
They believe that Uighur are among a number of Turkic tribes that inhabit the region, and consider it to be part of Central Asia, not China.
"China has been carrying out a systematic assimilation policy for 66 years, when it invaded East Turkistan," Tumturk said, adding that Beijing had been oppressing Uighur for decades, preventing them practicing their religion and culture, "while the world stayed silent."
He criticized the Organization of Islamic Cooperation for not acting against the "Chinese cruelty."
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
Modi vows to strip Muslim immigrants of vote in eastern India
Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

UN sees need for space travel rules within 5 years

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
