2015-07~07
http://www.dawn.com/news/1194629/china-says-fleeing-uighurs-want-to-bring-holy-war-home

China says fleeing Uighurs want to bring holy war home - World - DAWN.COM
BEIJING: Uighurs from China's far western region of Xinjiang who have travelled to Turkey via Southeast Asia are being trained in Syria and Iraq with the aim of bringing jihad back to China, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said on Wednesday.
Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of Uighurs, a largely Muslim ethnic minority that calls Xinjiang home, have left China in recent years.
Rights groups say such migrants are mostly fleeing ethnic violence in Xinjiang and Chinese controls on their religion and culture. Hundreds of people have died in unrest in Xinjiang in the last three years, blamed by Beijing on Islamist militants.
Read more: China pushes Uighurs to give up fasting in Ramazan
China's Foreign Ministry said that the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a group Beijing says seeks an independent state in Xinjiang, finds followers from the region to seek training in the Middle East with the intent of returning to wage jihad.
"Terrorist extremists from within China's borders are recruited to illegally exit the country. Through Southeast Asian countries they go to Turkey and from there head to the so-called holy wars in Syria and Iraq, receive terrorist training and bide their time to return," the ministry said in a statement sent to Reuters.
"This not only seriously damages China's national security, but also is a threat to the security and stability of other relevant countries and regions," it said.
The comments come as China steps ups efforts to bolster its claims that some of the 109 Uighurs deported from Thailand back to China last week posed a security threat, amid global concern about their well-being.
Their deportation sparked anger in Turkey, home to a large Uighur diaspora, and fed concern among rights groups and the United States that they could be mistreated upon their return.
Read more: Thai consulate in Istanbul attacked after Uighurs deported
In March, Xinjiang's Communist Party chief Zhang Chunxian said that authorities had busted "extremists" that 
had returned from overseas wars, but authorities have offered little evidence to support their claims.
Many foreign experts, as well as rights groups and exiles, have questioned whether ETIM exists as the coherent group China claims it is.
"To strengthen so-called diplomatic victories, China meticulously fabricates lies to obtain its own political goals, and will force those repatriated to serve as propaganda tools," Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the exiled group the World Uyghur Congress, said in an emailed statement.
By shielding Zakir Lakhvi ... China is not doing anything different ....
Soon China will understand its mistake ....
Sooner the better...
If this is China's internal matter than Kashmir is India's internal matter as well...
when pakistan is just 100 km, from their home why they will go all the way to turkey. & Syria...
Look how those Chinese police is smiling in the photo
Chinese suppression of it's Muslim minority is shameful... Chinese on one hand are calling us as their allies, but on other hand they are destroying our brothers (Uighurs). How can we accept this?
Lets start finding fault of Uighurs, our sweetu friend can never be wrong
No one is there to care for Ughirs. Everyone seems busy in caring about Kashmir, Palestine, Raohingyas (as directed by government).
Aren't Chinese Ughirs our brothers? Why no one talking about their oppression in the holy month of Ramadan...? Where is the ummah? Why not a single resolution passed by Parliament to condemn atrocities?
@Padmakar No, We do care about Kashmir as it is a disputed area and we believe that the people of J&K must be allowed to choose whether to join Pakistan or India as per the UN resolutions. Palestine is also supported by UN resolutions and so we do understand that to be an international dispute. Most Pakistanis do not know Rohingyas and this is a new phenomenon of Historic Bihari and Bengali migrants in Burma, this has nothing to do with pakistan and is an issue for Bangladesh and India.
are you nuts? will your rulers have the guts to say anything at all? china is your iron friend, is it not?
@Jatt , It's duty of the Pakistan as a only Islamic nuclear power to raise the issue of atrocities against Muslims in the world..!
@Javed common grow up man. what you think Pakistan is a thekedar of all muslims in the world. first take care of your minority.
China is killing Uighurs as they have done to the Tibetans. If need arises they will also back stab their freinds. Nothing is straight about chinese except their hairs.
There is no reason to make this into a diplomatic incident. This is purely an internal Chinese matter. China is the largest economy in the world and it is second biggest military power. China will not listen to us and we will annoy China. I wish we avoided interfering in the matters of other countries. We do not have friendly relations with Afghanistan, India or Iran. Let not make China into another enemy.
Sweeter then honey...fellow hurting ur brothers bt, no leader in pakistan has gut to even request china about it
Our leader should rise this issue with their Chinese counter-partners.
Now let Chinese Han Majority attack Turky embassy in return
China is the only country in the world which is suppressing muslims, not even allowing muslims to follow ramadan. Ummah should condemn this at the earliest. This cannot be tolerated. There are 20 million muslims in china. China shojuld allow its muslims for Hajj and for ramadan. this is hte basic thing we should expect from china. our prime minster should talk with china
@Q Adil That is perception difference only. For them nation comes first over religion where as in your country religion comes first over nation.
China is the among biggest perpetrator of atrocities and injustice against Muslims - but they go under the radar. All Muslim countries including Pakistan turn a blind eye to the sufferings of Muslims in China. Why is it Ok for China to kill its Muslims?
Uighurs are our Muslim brothers whose country East Turkistan has been forcibly taken away by the Chinese and now these Muslims can't even practice Islam. Many are killed and attrocities are conducted everyday. We must step in and free these muslims right on our door step.
@Singh Shab They are, only 3% minory left in the PAK.
As a person who has lived and worked in China and visited Xinjiang several times, I know that the people there , the Uighurs are a colorful and happy people with a wonderful culture. However in the last few years they have gradually become violent because they have been violently suppressed by the state. Basic Islam tenets like growing beard , wearing Muslim attire etc is forbidden. The women can be detained if seen in public with a burqa or a veil. Therefore we in India find it strange that neither the Pakistan Government nor its public raises this concern. The rhetoric from the roof tops and nuclear threats are only reserved for India unfortunately.
Uighurs are Turkic speaking people. In 1949 the Han Chinese invaded their homeland. There were no Chinese in the area. Ironic how the blasphemy law in Pakistan is used to protect Islam from any words that are deemed wrong but Pakistan s strongly supports the Communist Chinese in the persecution of the Uighur Muslims by being quite.
china gave 10 million dollars to pakistan just to look the other way
China badly treating muslims then india.. still we consider him good friend..
China shame on you for such hard handedness. Give them some freedom and respect.
@Jawad so you are saying its okay for China to suppress the Muslims of Uighur province because we cannot risk alienating them? What kind of moral logic is that?
shameful... my heart hurts. as a husband of an Uighur wife, i have seen and heard these atrocities too many times. a fraction of these incidents make it to media and NO government with the exception of Turkey's Ardogan saying anything about it. Its just too convenient for Chinese government to fold everything under 'terrorism'.
@jammu wala Kashmir is a occupied land by India mate!!
@Singh Shab what is wrong with pakistani minorities... they are more stable and prosperous than those in India!!!
@Raja farhat abbas I guess East Turkistan is not occupied by the China same as Baluchistan was not annexed by Pakistan.
Just a question. East Turkey is a land conquered by Chinese but what about Tibet then?
@Q Adil I think it is not Ramadan they worried about, it is what Muslim enforce in Ramadan on others. For example forcing others (I mean non Muslims) not to eat publicly or taking off from jobs due to fasting and so on. I raised in Pakistan and have seen hotels and restaurants open in Ramadan during daytime. But the some thing happened in Zia era extremisism overshadowed every thing. Now non Muslims life is hell in Pakistan because of extremism. Think open mindedly and you will find who it wrong and who is right
@Dany Haaaaa......What a joke..When minority becomes 2% from 10% in 50 years...yes definitely they are well off...Even 2 % will become 0.2%...
@Dany yes so great that minorities are thronging embassies for residency permits.
@Sunil Varma - Pakistan only treats India as their enemy, they watch Indian movies, shares same culture but still will cry against India...
This is typical Asian mentality to love others and blame your own people... Pakistani's should look India as their friend than enemy. Chinese are investing to use Pakistani's as they are using North Korea. when War will come China will use North Korea and Pakistan to fire on world and world will only look these country as enemy than China.
@Salim khan no you people can't, had Muslims rose up for Tibetans then Chinese wouldn't have dared to do so, but Muslim nations despite being so strong turn a blind eye to Tibetan issue, they are under illegal occupation since ages now there whole culture is being destroyed, but no one cares, it's all about money nowadays, don't expect world to take notice of uighurs now, pity we take sides wrt religion even in mass abuses like this
@Raja farhat abbas both the Kashmirs are occupied buddy, leave at least your side of Kashmir if you are so righteous
@Dany " @Singh Shab what is wrong with Pakistani minorities... they are more stable and prosperous than those in India!!! "
For your information , the population of Hindus in Pakistan has come down from 20% in 1947 to 2.5 % today. And that of Muslims in India has gone up from about 14% to 20% in the same period.
These figures speak volumes for the stability of minorities in India and Pakistan.

PIA’s fate to be decided at joint sitting of parliament


Pakistani scientist’s parents celebrate son’s feat in their dilapidated home


Disenfranchisement of women remains a hot issue in KP 


Pakistan fail to show up as Dhoni lauds India’s turnaround kings


From Cairo, It’s Saturday Night Live — without politics, sex or religion
