2015-07~07
http://www.dailystar.com.lb/News/World/2015/Jul-10/306021-thai-embassy-closed-in-turkey-after-protest-against-deported-uighurs.ashx

Thai embassy closed in Turkey after protest against deported Uighurs | News , World | THE DAILY STAR
Riot police stand as a group of Uighur protesters demonstrate outside the Thai embassy in Ankara, Turkey, Thursday, June 9. 2015. Thailand sent back to China more than 100 ethnic Uighur refugees on Thursday, drawing harsh criticism from the U.N. refugee agency and human rights groups over concerns that they face persecution by the Chinese government. Protesters in Turkey, which accepted an earlier batch of Uighur refugees from Thailand, ransacked the Thai Consulate in Istanbul overnight.(AP Phot
We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article.
Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties on this site are the sole responsibility of the individual(s) whose content is submitted. The Daily Star accepts no responsibility for the content of comment(s), including, without limitation, any error, omission or inaccuracy therein. Please note that your email address will NOT appear on the site.

Alert: If you are facing problems with posting comments, please note that you must verify your email with Disqus prior to posting a comment. follow this link to make sure your account meets the requirements. (http://bit.ly/vDisqus)

Thailand Friday closed its embassy and consulate in Turkey after a protest against its deportation of Uighur Muslims to China, as the U.S. warned the minority could face "harsh treatment" on their return.It was the latest protest in Turkey over the treatment of the Turkic-speaking, largely Muslim minority in China's northwestern Xinjiang region where Uighurs say they face cultural and religious repression.The junta-ruled kingdom revealed Thursday that around 100 Uighurs were deported to China Wednesday, while an earlier group of 172 women and children were sent to Turkey in late June.Responding to criticism over the China deportations, Werachon said that high-level Thai officials would travel to the country next week to follow-up on the returned group.