2015-07~07
http://www.thailandnews.net/index.php/sid/236247143

Thailand News - Thai Police Arrest Bombing Suspect

The announcement is the first reported significant breakthrough since the August 17 blast at the popular Erawan Shrine in central Bangkok killed 20 people - Thais, Chinese, Malaysians, a Singaporean and an Indonesian - and wounding more than 100 people of numerous nationalities.

The bombing was the worst single mass casualty attack in Thailand.

FILE - Police investigate a scene the morning after an explosion in Bangkok,Thailand, Aug. 18, 2015.

 The military junta's announcement came hours after a "foreign man," said to be 28 years of age, was taken into custody on the eastern fringe of Bangkok

Authorities say the suspect had rented five rooms in the same building. It was surrounded on Saturday by more than 100 police officers and soldiers who cordoned off the area after the suspect was apprehended.

 Thai police have come under criticism for their investigation in which they had released contradictory information about possible suspects in the bombing.

FILE - This Aug. 17, 2015, image, released by Royal Thai Police spokesman Lt. Gen. Prawut Thavornsiri shows a man wearing a yellow T-shirt near the Erawan Shrine before an explosion occurred in Bangkok, Thailand.

 The prime suspect was captured on closed circuit television - a man in a yellow t-shirt who left a bag at the shrine just before the explosion.

Authorities repeatedly refrained from calling the attack an act of terrorism and denied to VOA that Chinese were likely the primary target.

In recent days speculation had increased on a possible link to China's ethnic Uighur minority - or their co-religious sympathizers in Turkey.

Thailand's military government last month forcibly repatriated more than 100 Uighur refugees to China, a move condemned by international human rights groups.

That led to an attack on the Thai consulate in Istanbul where windows were smashed.
A power breakdown prompted an Airport Rail Link train to get stuck in the rail Monday morning before panic passengers exit through the emergency exits after they unsuccessfully tried to break the ...
London, United Kingdom: Leaving the European Union could cause a "serious shock" to Britain's economy, with the risk of losing almost one million jobs, according to a CBI business ...
WASHINGTON - A 6.6-magnitude earthquake hit off the east coast of Russia's Kamchatka Peninsula Monday but was not expected to cause damage or fatalities, US experts ...
OVER?the last few decades Thailand has attracted expatriates to the country to work, stay long periods of time to explore the country, or retire. Thailand attracts many young ...
Mumbai: As Indians are gearing up for the long weekend break on account of Holi and Good Friday, short- haul destinations like Dubai and Thailand have topped the list of popular global destinations. ...
" Campaign. This introduces a green approach to the market, focusing on "innovation to conserve energy and protect the environment, as Electrolux strives to lead in healthier home ...
LIMA - The United Nation's cultural body Unesco has added 20 new sites to its network of protected biosphere nature reserves, including two in Canada and two in ...
SYDNEY - Australian authorities said Sunday coral bleaching occurring in the World Heritage-listed Great Barrier Reef had become "severe", the highest alert level, as sea temperatures ...
He said yesterday that the new government would heed public opinion before making the next move and if the project does not win public approval, it would not be resumed. "We ...
MANILA - The Philippines on Sunday hailed a new accord giving the US military access to five of its bases, saying this would strengthen its defensive capabilities and maritime ...
CentralWorld last night during 8.30pm-9.30pm. Bangkok was one of over 7,000 cities in 178 countries that joined the event. The event has been held in Bangkok for 9 consecutive years. Last ...
BANGKOK - Preferring to risk death than face deportation, Dong Junming boarded a boat off Thailand's coast alongside eight fellow Chinese asylum-seekers in early March with the improbable plan ...
View of the Monumento a la Revolucion with the lights off during the Earth Hour in Mexico City on March 19, 2016. AFP PHOTO/ALFREDO ESTRELLA / AFP / ALFREDO ...
Most Singaporeans cannot imagine being caught up in a terror attack. Bangkok blast survivor Mdm Betty Ong tells Channel NewsAsia why stepping up community vigilance and readiness is a must ...
NEW YORK - Hundreds rallied against Donald Trump in New York and blocked a major road in Arizona Saturday in the latest attempts by opponents to disrupt the campaign of the top US Republican White ...
When 'Mt Everest' was searched in Google Maps on Saturday, the site returned with the result that Mt. Everst is in Tingri, Xigaze in China. Meanwhile, social media ...
Maia Santos Deguito, branch manager of the Rizal Commercial Banking Corp (RCBC), testifies during a Senate hearing of money laundering involving the theft of $81 million from the U.S. account of the ...
Preferring to risk death than face deportation, Dong Junming boarded a boat off Thailand's coast alongside eight fellow Chinese asylum-seekers in early March with the improbable plan of ...
Thailand News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Beaches, exotic temples, ruins, good food, world-class services, snorkeling and scuba diving, hill-tribe culture, trekking, nightlife, exceptional handicrafts, classical dance, friendly people and beautiful scenery are among the main attractions of Thailand.
Thailand will appeal to anyone who is interested in beach vacations or archaeology, but especially to those who want to explore exotic cultures without sacrificing modern conveniences.
Shillong, March 21 (IANS) Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday admitted that there was a need to strengthen security along the international border in the northeastern region to curb ...
Bangkok, March 20 (IANS) A Thai anti-corruption commission will investigate police officials who were accused of mishandling a probe into a car crash that killed two students last week, the media ...
SYDNEY - Environmental groups Monday urged greater action on climate change after the government declared the highest alert level over an epidemic of coral bleaching in the pristine northern reaches ...
The service was disrupted after a Suvarnabhumi-Phayathai train's electric system malfunctioned before it reached the Ramkhamhaeng station. Some passengers got out of the ...
CAIRO, Egypt - Egypt’s Interior Ministry has claimed that the death toll from a mortar attack has risen to 15. The ministry pointed out that all the victims are policemen, including three ...
PRETORIA, South Africa— South Africa’s ruling party, the African National Congress, on Sunday said it had full confidence in President Jacob Zuma in the wake of mounting allegations of political ...
ISTANBUL — A Turkish militant with links to the Islamic State was the suicide bomber who blew himself up killing four foreigners in Istanbul over the weekend, Turkey’s Interior Minister Ekfan ...
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia - Saudi Arabia’s leading electrical product manufacturer, Alfanar Group has announced that it is close to finalising the procedures for the acquisition of Germany-based ...
WASHINGTON – The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by temporarily easing trade sanctions slapped earlier this month against the Chinese telecom equipment and smartphone ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
SYDNEY, Australia - The sleeker, two-door version of the Mercedes-AMG C63 S is set to hit the roads down under in June 2016. AMG’s C63 Coupe is reportedly priced from $162,400 and reviews have ...
© 1999 - 2016 Thailand News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)