2015-07~07
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/diplomacy-defence/article/1834388/pla-air-force-promotions-signal-start-changes-19th

PLA Air Force promotions signal start of changes for 19th party congress | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Trio of regional officers to take up top political appointments
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Three senior regional air service officials have been promoted and relocated to the political department of the army's air force, the mouthpiece of the Chinese air force has reported.
The air force appointments show that the PLA has started preparations for changes to its military leadership due at the 19th party congress in 2017, when several top military officials are expected to retire.
Lieutenant General Yu Zhongfu, former political commissar of Nanjing military command's air force, was promoted to political commissar of the air force, replacing General Tian Xiusi, the Air Force Newspaper said.
Tian, 65, was one of the few generals to have seen actual fighting. He joined the artillery forces in Xinjiang in 1968. Tian was 35 when he was sent to the front line after the border conflict between China and Vietnam broke out on Dong Re Lao Mountain in 1979.
Tian's retirement had been expected as he had reached the maximum serving age for higher-ranking officials.
Defence Minister Chang Wanquan , 66, who also fought in the Lao Mountain battle, might also retire soon as the serving age for Central Military Command figures is 68.
Citing a conference call of air force officials last Friday, chaired by top leader General Ma Xiaotian in Beijing, the newspaper said that Lieutenant General Zhao Yiliang, 61, political commissar of the Shenyang military command's air force, had been moved to the air force's political department to become Yu's deputy.
Zhao's predecessor, Lieutenant General Wang Xiaolong retired after reaching 63, the maximum serving age for army deputy heads.
Major General Fan Xiaojun, 59, former deputy political commissar of the Shenyang military command and political commissar of the area's air force, was moved to Beijing to replace Lieutenant General Fang Jianguo as head of the air force's political office, the newspaper said.
Early reports by the PLA Daily and on other official websites said that Fang, 60, was working in three of the army's seven key military commands and also for the defence ministry, as well the secretary of former defence minister Chi Haotian in 1987.
Fang has yet to reach retirement age, which has led to speculation that he is likely to be promoted in the near future.