2015-07~07
http://celebcafe.org/thailand-forcibly-sends-nearly-100-uighurs-back-to-china/

Thailand forcibly sends nearly 100 Uighurs back to China – Reuters News 7/9 - CelebCafe.org
Thailand confirmed on Thursday it had forcibly returned almost 100 Uighur migrants to China, heightening tensions between Ankara and Beijing over the treatment of the Turkic language-speaking and largely Muslim minority.
On Thursday, Thai government spokesman Werachon Sukhondapatipak told reporters that “some 100” Uighurs were deported to China on Wednesday after finding “clear evidence they are Chinese nationals”.
Gen. Verachon Sukhonthapatipak said that Thailand had assurances from Chinese authorities that “their safety is guaranteed”. Thailand has worked with China and Turkey to solve the Uighur Muslim problem.
It also advised tour guides against using the Thai flag while travelling in Turkey and urged the Thais to avoid any protest areas.
A group of more than 170 Uighurs were identified as Turkish citizens and sent to Turkey, and almost 100 were identified as Chinese and sent back to China.
“We have sent them back to China after verifying their nationality”.
The spokesman confirmed that 173 Uighurs were deported to Turkey a week ago, and that after the latest deportation a few more remained in custody as their country of origin had not yet been determined.
“It is very shocking and disturbing that Thailand caved in to pressure from Beijing”, Sunai Phasuk, Thailand researcher at Human Rights Watch, told Reuters.
The World Uygur Congress, a German-based advocacy group, said that those repatriated could face criminal charges and harsh punishment, possibly execution, under China’s opaque legal system – the reasons they fled China in the first place.
But rights groups lambasted the move by Thailand’s generals, who have ruled the country since seizing power in a coup last May, as a “violation of global law”.
Mr Weerachon told reporters that Thailand had asked China to look after the safety of the Uighurs sent back.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said the Uygurs had left China illegally, and that Beijing opposes “any actions that aid and abet, or even support illegal migration”. Many Turks see themselves as sharing a common cultural and religious heritage with their Uighur “brothers” and Turkey is home to a large Uighur diaspora.
Earlier this week, Beijing issued a travel warning for Turkey after a string of xenophobic incidents against Chinese targets.
China has accused Uighur separatists of terrorism in Xinjiang, where ethnic violence has left hundreds of people dead over the past two years.