2015-07~07
http://www.turkishny.com/english-news/5-english-news/184804-thai-govt-sends-90-uighur-turks-back-to-china

Thai Gov't Sends 90 Uighur Turks 'Back' To China
Human Rights Watch spokesperson tells Anadolu Agency 'if true' act is clear violation of int'l law as Uighur could face serious human rights abuses
The Thai government confirmed Thursday that it had deported 90 of the around 150 Uighur migrants understood to have been detained in Thailand back to China.
The migrants were from a group of around 350 Uighur who have been rounded up in the Kingdom since October 2013, as they tried to cross its borders to Malaysia, Cambodia and beyond.
While China identified the group as from its Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, Turkey had welcomed them as its own.
"Anatolians have never rejected guests that came to their land for centuries," Foreign Ministry spokesperson Tanju Bilgic said Friday.
"Turkey, with that understanding, holds its doors wide open to Uighur who want to come to our country."
Thai government spokesman Weerachon Sukondhapatipak told Anadolu Agency by phone on Wednesday that the Uighur had been deported "in accordance with protocol" as they had been determined by the government to have originated from China. 
Weerachon also confirmed that the government had repatriated 173 Uighur back to Turkey on July 2. 
On Wednesday, rights groups Human Rights Watch told Anadolu Agency that the number of those deported overnight could have been as high as 115.
 "A majority were adults, but some were children," Sunai Phasuk, Human Rights Watch representative in Thailand, told Anadolu Agency.
There was no explanation for the discrepancy in figures, however most have been held in detention centers in Bangkok or in Songkhla in the country's south since their capture, making it difficult to track exact numbers.
"At least 50 Uighur remain in detention centers in Thailand, and we worry they might also be sent back to China," Phasuk added.
Many Turks believe that Uighur are among a number of Turkic tribes that inhabit China’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, and consider it to be part of Central Asia, not China.
Some of those repatriated back to Turkey July 2 belonged to a Uighur family who took Thailand to court in March, demanding that they be released from detention and allowed to "return home" to Turkey.
During the hearing, the couple produced photocopies of what their Thai lawyer - Worasit Piriyawiboon - claimed to be Turkish passports.
“They want to go to Turkey and we are ready to accept them," the Turkish Embassy’s First Counsellor Ahmet Idem Akay told Anadolu Agency at the time. 
The Thai court ruled, however, that the prolonged detention was legal, but did not say which country – Turkey or China – they would eventually be sent back to.
On Wednesday, Piriyawiboon told Anadolu Agency that those still in detention wished to join their compatriots who have recently arrived in Turkey.
“There are still around 400 Uighur detained in [Thailand's] Songkhla province and other areas and their case is considered [by Thai authorities] to be a national security issue.”
Again, there was no explanation for the discrepancy between Piriyawiboon and Human Rights Watch numbers.
"Their case will be dealt through a negotiation process between China, Turkey and Thailand. Their case is considered a political case,” he said.
He added that the 173 now in Turkey had been allowed to leave after lengthy negotiations between Ankara and Bangkok.
“The United Nations acted as a facilitator in the negotiations. Their detention had no legal basis and was against human rights,” he said.
On Wednesday, Human Rights Watch called the deportation of the Uighur back to China a "clear violation." 
“We are still trying to find out details, but if confirmed it is a clear violation of the international law as the Uighur could face serious human rights abuses in China," Phasuk told Anadolu Agency.
“Thai authorities have often shown very little regard for humanitarian considerations when sending back people where they could face serious human rights violations, as has been the case in the past for Rohingya or Hmong,” he added.
Rights groups have said that Rohingya face abuse in Myanmar - thought to be state sanctioned - while Hmong have long been reported as being victimized by Laotian authorities.
Overnight, crowds were reported to have gathered outside of the Thai consulate in Istanbul as news broke that the Uighur were about to be deported.
Some were reported to have broken into the building, from where they smashed windows and lowered the Southeast Asian country's flag.
The Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed the attack in a statement Thursday before sending out an alert to Thais living in Turkey warning of possible reprisals. 
Security was also beefed up around the Turkish Embassy in Bangkok in case of retaliation.
The Uighur -- who constitute around 45 percent of the population of Xinjiang – have accused China of carrying out repressive policies that restrain their religious, commercial and cultural activities.
A yearlong "anti-terrorism" campaign -- focusing on Xinjiang -- was launched by China’s central government on May 23.
Trump Towers, Kuştepe Mah. Mecidiyeköy Yolu Cad., No:12 Kule:2 Kat:17 Suit: 36, 34387 Istanbul Turkey