2015-07~07
http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/World-News-6384821.php

World News - SFGate

1 Tibet death: The death of a Tibetan spiritual leader in a Chinese jail Sunday led to a violent protest by Tibetans demanding the return of his body to his family, according to news reports and an advocacy group. Tenzin Delek Rinpoche, one of the most prominent Tibetan spiritual leaders to be imprisoned by Chinese authorities, was serving a 20-year jail sentence in Sichuan province after he was convicted of a series of bombings in the provincial capital, Chengdu, in 2002. Tenzin Delek, whose co-defendant was executed in 2003, maintained his innocence and continued to be revered widely while in prison. Earlier, he had built monasteries, clinics and schools, and lived in Yajiang County, according to a report by Human Rights Watch from 2004.

2 
Uighur conflict: Police in the northeastern Chinese city of Shenyang said Tuesday that they had shot and killed three men who they said belonged to a terrorist organization, and who they said lashed out with knives and shouted jihadist slogans when officers tried to enter their apartment. The men killed Monday were from the far western region of Xinjiang. A woman was wounded by police gunfire, and another woman, identified as an ethnic Uighur, was taken into custody along with three children. Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking, predominantly Muslim group from Xinjiang. They face discrimination in China, and some say the authorities severely restrict their culture, language and religion.

3 Rebel leader killed: Activists say a double suicide bombing has targeted the headquarters of an ultraconservative Islamic rebel group in northern Syria, killing its leader and six other high ranking members. The attacks northwest of the town of Idlib on Tuesday struck the headquarters of Ahrar al-Sham, killing the group’s leader Abu Abdelrahman Salqeen. There was no immediate claim of responsibility but Ahrar al-Sham is among the most powerful Islamic groups fighting both President Bashar Assad’s forces and the Islamic State group, which holds wide swaths of territory in Syria. It was the second time in less than a year that a bombing takes out Ahrar al-Sham’s leadership.

4 
Female jihadists: British counterterrorism chiefs say 43 British women and girls are believed to have traveled to Syria in the past year. The Metropolitan Police figures are the first official count of British women thought to be in the war zone. Security officials believe up to 700 people have gone to Syria to become involved in jihadist groups and about half have returned. Women who travel to Syria for jihadist reasons cannot get involved directly in fighting. They are regularly married off to fighters.

5
 Lost cow: Matylda finally moo’ved back home. The cow escaped from her Polish farm two years ago and lived a life on the lam in a nearby forest, sometimes damaging crops. She has finally been caught. Owner Leszek Zasada said Matylda escaped from his farm in Zloty Stok, the day after he brought her home. She survived two frigid winters, but lost the calf she was spotted with and returned home with many scars.