2015-07~07
http://www.worldbulletin.net/haberler/161589/thousands-protest-chinas-fasting-ban

Thousands protest China's fasting ban | General | Worldbulletin News
Protests broke out overnight all over Turkey with thousands of people taking to the streets to demand that China stop its alleged discrimination against Muslims.
Demonstrators gathered in Istanbul, Izmir, Trabzon, Samsun, Bursa, and 20 other locations late Wednesday to chant and shout for justice for an area Turks call East Turkestan.
In some places protests continued into the early hours of Thursday morning.
The marches by several organizations and associations started around and after iftar - when Muslims break their daily fast - with people taking to the streets, holding placards and shouting slogans.
In Tarabya in Istanbul - the home of the Chinese Consulate, and the largest protest - hundreds of members of the youth branch of the country's dominant political force, the AK Party, gathered outside the building where they broke fast with water and Turkish bagels.
Slogans such as "Long live hell for torturers", "Silence is consent, wake up and raise your voice" and "We stand with East Turkestan" were shouted.
The protests follow an official statement from the Turkish Foreign Ministry on Tuesday that expressed "deep concern" about reports that Beijing has instilled a fasting ban on segments of its Muslim population.
"It has been publicly heard with sorrow that there are reports of the fasting and fulfilling of religious duties by Uighur Turks being banned," the statement said.
It offered no explanation as to what it wanted China to do about the reported ban.
On Wednesday a spokeswoman for China's Foreign Ministry said that her government had noted Turkey's remarks and wanted clarification.
"All ethnic groups in China are entitled to the freedom of religious belief under Chinese constitution," Hua Chunying said through a translator.
In mid-June, it was widely reported that China had banned fasting in parts of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region for Party members, civil servants, students and teachers.
On Thursday, Hua said that Beijing attached great importance to its developing relationship with Turkey.
"We hope we can develop the bilateral relationship, based on a mutual respect of each other’s major concerns and common interests," she said.
"We hope that the Turkish side will work together with us to maintain the smooth development of the bilateral relationship."
The "concern" expressed Wednesday night is reflective of the sentiment that many Turks have with regard to the Uighur issue.
Many Turks refer to China’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region - home to many ethnic minority groups, including Turkic Uighur people -- as East Turkestan.
They believe that Uighur are among a number of Turkic tribes that inhabit the region, and consider it to be part of Central Asia, not China.
Uighur, a Turkic group that makes up around 45 percent of the population of Xinjiang, has accused China of carrying out repressive policies that restrain their religious, commercial and cultural activities.
'As long as our nation keeps strong our unity, togetherness and solidarity, [we can prevail over terrorism],' Turkish president says
Turkish dailies on Monday reported the identity of the suicide bomber who blew himself up on Istanbul's Istiklal Street
At least 164 people have been held over unauthorised Nevruz demonstrations on Sunday in Istanbul
Turkish president expresses his sorrow over deaths of Israeli and Iranian citizens in Saturday's Istanbul suicide attack
Turkish president says Assad committed state terrorism and must be tried at the International Criminal Court
Turkish president also accuses European Union of being insincere in Turkey's accession process
Turkish FM also calls Belgium counterpart to convey Turkey’s objections to allowing PKK supporters pitch tents in Brussels near EU-Turkey summit venue
Turkish president also slams Belgian government for allowing PKK supporters in Brussels to pitch tents near EU-Turkey summit
Ankara public prosecutor asks Justice Ministry to request Interpol red notice for 47 PKK terrorists, including senior figures
'The attacker has been formally identified' as an ISIL member
Reports suggest ISIL extremists are suspected of being behind the latest attack which targeted Istiklal Caddesi
Victims of the attack are memorialized with carnations; defiant signs go up saying, 'We are not afraid'
Turkish ambassador to the US Serdar Kilic accepts the award on behalf of the Turkish government and people
NATO and EU states also express solidarity with Turkey in aftermath of attack on Istiklal Street
Of the 36 people injured in this mornings suicide bomb in Istiklal Street, 12 of them have been established to be foreigners.
Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu's remarks come during joint press conference with his Iranian counterpart Zarif in Istanbul
Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

UN sees need for space travel rules within 5 years

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
