2015-07~07
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/asiapacific/thai-consulate-in/1971674.html?cid=cna_editorspick_070814

Thai consulate in Istanbul attacked over extradition of Uighurs - Channel NewsAsia
BANGKOK: An angry mob attacked Thailand's honorary consulate in Istanbul late on Wednesday (Jul 8) over the Thai government’s decision to extradite Uighur asylum seekers to China.
Thailand's embassy in Ankara warned around 1,300 Thais living in Turkey to "be on alert" following the attack. Thai Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha on Thursday mooted the possibility of closing the embassy if the situation worsened.
"We have managed to contact the Turkish government to provide safety and protection to Thai consulate in Istanbul as well as the Royal Thai Embassy in Ankara,” said Colonel Weerachon Sukhondhapatipak, deputy government spokesman, on Thursday.
“With the current situation, everything is under control and manageable. We hope for the best that the Turkish government will be able to provide better understanding, the right perception to those conducting the movement (against the Thai government) at the moment."
In March 2014, more than 200 Uighurs were arrested at a rubber plantation in Songkhla province for illegally entering the country.
"Thailand sent around 100 Uighurs back to China yesterday," Weerachon told reporters. "Thailand has worked with China and Turkey to solve the Uighur Muslim problem. We have sent them back to China after verifying their nationalities."
A group of more than 170 Uighurs were identified as Turkish citizens and were sent to Turkey, said Weerachon, adding another nearly 100 were identified as Chinese and sent back to China and 50 more still needed to have their citizenship verified.
"Only those who already proved their identity were sent back to respective countries; Turkey and China,” said Weerachon. “Those who remain in Thailand … if we cannot prove their identity, the decision will not be made. We will look after them until they are able to prove their identity."
Rights groups have expressed concern over Thailand's decision to send the Uighurs back to China fearing they could face ill-treatment and even torture.
"It is very shocking and disturbing that Thailand caved in to pressure from Beijing," Sunai Phasuk, Thailand researcher at Human Rights Watch, told Reuters. "By forcibly sending back at least 90 Uighurs, Thailand has violated international law. In China they can face serious abuses including torture and disappearance."
The UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) said it was "alarmed" by the "deportation", as the Uighurs "did not wish to be deported to China". The group may have included women and children, the UNHCR added. 
The UNHCR said they were made "aware of these cases for several months, and made numerous interventions on their behalf to the Thai Government". In response, the agency said it was given assurances that the matter would be handled in accordance with international legal standards, and that the group would continue to receive protection.
Weerachon told reporters that Thailand had asked China to look after the safety of the Uighurs sent back. "Even though China didn't agree with Thailand's stance, we insisted on humanitarian (consideration), on the principal of rights and law," he said.
"They must give use assurance of the safety of these people. Those who have been criminally charged must be brought to justice on a fair basis. Those who've been innocent will be look after and provided with basic rights, for example shelter, accommodation, and occupation to earn their living.  
"China said it would look after the safety of these people," he added.
China's treatment of the Uighurs is an important issue for many Turks who see themselves as sharing a common cultural and religious background. The Uighurs are regarded as "brothers" in Turkey, which already hosts a large Uighur community.
China is home to about 20 million Muslims spread across its vast territory, only a portion of whom are Uighur.
Anti-Chinese sentiment is on the rise in Turkey over the past few weeks after allegations that China banned Uighurs from conducting proper religious practices during the holy month of Ramadan.  The Chinese government has denied this allegation.