2015-07~07
http://www.dailysabah.com/columns/ozan-ceyhun/2015/07/07/eu-is-afraid-of-china

EU is afraid of China - Ozan Ceyhun - Daily Sabah

The Muslims living in the EU countries have been demonstrating against China lately. Particularly the Muslims of Turkish origin are calling on the EU countries to take a stand against China with the protests they are organizing in the countries in which they reside as citizens. 

But for some reason, both the EU and its member states remain silent when China is in question.

However, the violation of human rights in China should have, first and foremost, disturbed the EU and the EU countries. The EU, which is a very loud institution when it comes to human rights all over the world, has retreated into silence or just ambiguously murmured on the human rights violations in China. 

Moreover, the European Parliament has not put in the performance we are used to seeing when it comes to the matter of China. The European Parliament, which stands out with its press releases and conferences, and which issues various decisions against "human rights violations" even for the most remote corners of the world, seemingly broke up for a summer vacation a little early when it comes to China. 

It would be useful to review some facts.

China, which has intensified its pressure on the 12 million Uighurs in East Turkestan on the pretext of attacks by some terrorist groups, but is actually motivated by carrying out ethnic cleansing, again instilled a fasting ban on Muslims during the holy month of Ramadan. The Beijing government banned fasting for civil servants and students.

In East Turkestan, which is called Xinjiang by the Chinese government, a notice was reportedly hung on the walls of schools and administrative offices, declaring the fasting ban for students with the aim of "protecting their physical health." Furthermore, an official statement hung on a school building in Ruoqiang used the following expression: "Teachers cannot participate in any religious activity and cannot promote their students to participate in any religious activity." Also, an order released on the websites of the Communist Party and the administrative management banned fasting for civil servants and party members. Dilşat Raşit, the spokesperson for the World Uighur Congress, who lives in Germany, stated last week that the officials of the Chinese Communist Party served free food and drinks to the public in order to test whether the Uighurs were fasting or not.

In Bole, a city in East Turkestan, teachers were reportedly assigned to keep guard at mosque doors to prohibit students from entering mosques. In other words, not only fasting, but also performing salaat, the ritual prayers of Islam, has been forbidden.

China had banned fasting in East Turkestan during previous Ramadans. 

While the Chinese Communist Party is defending the complete separation of religion and education, this policy is not implemented for Buddhists, Christians, Taoists, and the Han Chinese, the largest ethnic group in China. Only Muslims are subjected to this discrimination.

Especially in East Turkestan, Uighurs are tyrannized in its exact sense by China on the pretext that they are "separatists." Innumerable innocent people among the Uighur community, who were put on trial after being gathered in stadiums on the grounds of the attacks of some terrorist groups, were sentenced to death and executed by Chinese courts, in which any rule peculiar to a state of law is not valid. 

In East Turkestan, where access to internet is also restricted in order to prevent the spread of the details of these incidents to the international public, people are living in very harsh conditions. In brief, the people living in East Turkestan are subjected to all kinds of discriminatory practices.

So, will the EU and its member states, and their political parties and politicians, maintain their silence in the face of all of this? Will they continue to raise limited and weak voice for the sake of appearances?

For instance, will the German Green Party or the radical left-wing groups in the European Parliament, which are very active on such subjects, adopt a "courageous" stance against human rights violations in East Turkestan?

For which reason can the EU not see the fact that freedom of worship is prohibited in China, even though the whole world can see it?

Do the commercial relations with China, which is currently the second super power of the world, or the disregarding and defiant stance of China on this subject intimidate the EU?

What kind of fears and motivations regarding China could prevent the EU from defending the people who are exposed to violence and human rights violations?

Not only I, but also all Muslims and the international public with concerns for human rights are asking these questions.
