2015-07~07
http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/india-consular-access-tourist-detained-terror-links/1/451505.html

India seeks consular access for tourist detained on 'terror links' : World, News - India Today
Indian officials have sought consular access for an Indian national who was part of a group of 20 tourists detained in northern China and accused of having "links to a terror group ".
The Indian has been in detention in the city of Ordos in Inner Mongolia since July 10.  Indian Embassy officials in Beijing have sought consular access to him, and once granted will likely travel to Ordos to seek further details.
With Chinese authorities mum about the detentions, there were more questions than answers on why the local government chose to detain the group and whether this was possibly a case of mistaken identity as some of the relatives have suggested.
The group included 10 South Africans and nine British nationals. UK media reported that six of the nine British nationals had already been deported from China, while the others remained in detention. Reports said the authorities had agreed to release 11 of the 20 by Friday, but the fate of the nine others - including the Indian, five South Africans and three British nationals - still remains unclear.
The members were reported to be on a 47-day tourism trip to China organized in connection with South African NGO Gift of the Givers. The NGO said none of the members have criminal records or terror links, and that the Chinese authorities had still not formally charged the group with any crime.
The NGO said in a statement that authorities had accused the group of "watching propaganda videos".  However, there were suggestions that authorities may have mistaken Islamic prayer videos for "terror propaganda" videos, South African media reports said.
The Chinese Foreign Ministry was yet to respond to questions from India Today about the case.
The NGO describes itself as a disaster-relief organization. Its founder, Dr. Imtiaz Sooliman, has said that its work was inspired by a Sufi master. The NGO said in a statement the travellers were "arrested with no reasons given for the arrest. Their cellphones were confiscated, and they did not have access to their embassies nor to their families". The NGO said none of the members have criminal records or terror links.
"The Chinese, now trying to find reasons for the detention suggested that some members were linked to a terror group, to a banned organisation, to watching propaganda videos in their hotel room," the NGO said.
China has in recent months been on heightened alert on Jihadist groups, waging an intensified crackdown in its western Muslim-majority Xinjiang region. Over the past year hundreds of Uighur Muslims have been detained, including on charges of downloading and spreading "terror propaganda videos".
Uighur rights groups have said China has intensified restrictions in recent weeks during the on-going month of Ramadan, with Uighur students and government workers warned that they will not be allowed to fast and observe any rituals during the month.
For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in. ताज़ातरीन ख़बरों और वीडियो के लिए आजतक.इन पर आएं.