2015-07~07
http://en.cihan.com.tr/en/the-us-and-the-big-game-1815822.htm

The US and the ’big game’ - Cihan

The developments in the Middle East seem to be occupying all the front pages, thus it was a little difficult to notice two important diplomatic initiatives launched by the US.The administration of US President Barack Obama has managed to overturn one of America's oldest diplomatic stances: It decided to make peace with Cuba. The two countries have even decided to resume the diplomatic relations interrupted 50 years ago. We know that the Cuban island, which is extremely close to American shores, was used as an outpost by Russia for decades. Now that Washington and Havana are talking to each other, one can guess Russian-Cuban relations will not be as close as they used to be.Following his iconoclast move towards Cuba, Obama has launched a similar initiative in Southeast Asia. We all know what Vietnam means to the US. Now the two countries have decided to heal their relationship and the general secretary of Vietnam's Communist Party recently visited Obama at the White House. The US president has emphasized that the two countries still have fundamental differences but share similar strategic concerns. One doesn't need to be an expert to guess that he means China and the latter's economic and military policies towards the Southeast Asian region.In Turkey, many believe the real struggle is going on in the Middle East, but in fact, from the perspective of the great powers, the real fight is in the open seas, especially in the Indian Ocean and the South China Sea. The US has no doubt its real rival is China, even though one might get the impression, in light of recent developments, that Russia has become the number one threat to the US. What the US is really trying to do, however, is distance the EU from Russia and push the latter toward the East in order to have it cooperate with China from time to time. Thus we'll have a big “other” on the Pacific shores of Asia as the basis of the new bipolar system.I get the impression the struggle between the US and Russia is nothing but a sham fight, while real antagonism is being built between the US and China. In this context, what's the point of getting obsessed with Syria? “Strategic analyses” based on information such as which group recently occupied which village in Syria are meaningless in this big picture. Regional powers are the only ones that have an interest in these events, as big powers have a lot more serious things to worry about.For the last couple of days, however, even Turkey has started talking about East Asia, mainly because of reports of ethnic Uighur Muslims being mistreated in China. In addition, Thailand has been criticized as well, as its government decided to deport Uighur refugees to China. The fact that a Turkish-speaking Muslim minority is being persecuted got the Turkish public opinion's attention immediately.We know that peoples and minorities have frequently been used in strategic fights between opposing states. Today we are talking about Uighurs in China, Russians in Ukraine or Kurds in Syria. Tomorrow we'll hear about other groups living in other countries. One, of course, hasn't got the chance of pursuing a “proxy war” against China by using the Uighurs, as there is the risk of China retaliating immensely with all the instruments at its disposal. That's why the US is trying, for instance, to build closer relations with China's worried neighbors and remind Beijing that one day it can use other instruments, such as the country's minorities.While putting its policy toward China in place, Obama must carefully watch what Russia is doing about it. As a matter of fact, the US would prefer that Russia remain more powerful than China and counterbalance it when necessary.One may ask if those initiatives about Cuba or Vietnam are that important. Well, they are.BERİL DEDEOĞLU (Cihan/Today's Zaman)