2015-07~07
http://www.mayerthorpefreelancer.com/2015/07/02/left-manufactured-confederate-flag-debate-to-serve-political-agenda

What does the 'rebel flag' represent? | Mayerthorpe Freelancer
It’s true, of course, that the Confederate battle flag -- which can be seen on licence plates in Alberta and across rural Canada -- was the flag flown by Southern states who fought to uphold slavery 150 years ago in the American Civil War.
However, it is equally true that the rebel flag has taken on a different meaning in popular culture as that war has receded into the past. 
For many Southerners, it’s come to be a symbol of the South’s regional culture, and a way of remembering its history, both good and bad.
Southerners who sport Confederate flag T-shirts see it as a way of showing pride in where they’re from. Hence the slogan “Heritage, not hate,” which flag fans started as a response to people who were accusing them of supporting a racist symbol.
Outside the South, the flag has become an emblem of rural pride and libertarian rebellion against officious progressivism -- the ruling dogma in urban centres -- which would like to ban guns and sanitize the way everyone talks and thinks.
According to critics, however, people who think the flag symbolizes anything other than racism are ignorant of its true meaning.
But this assumes the flag’s “real” meaning is determined not by how it is perceived by millions of people today, but by how it was perceived 150 years ago.
I find this unconvincing. Consider the Confederate flag in Canada. It came here by way of southern rock bands like Lynyrd Skynyrd and the television show The Dukes of Hazzard; it’s a pop-culture artefact, divorced from historical context.
It would be simply untrue -- not to mention viciously slanderous -- to link some hoser to racist hate just because of the Confederate flag on his pickup truck. And yet, that is exactly what people on the left are doing.
Two weeks ago, the racist terrorist Dylann Roof shot and killed nine people at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina. Despite a heartening show of racial unity that immediately followed, the liberal media just as quickly began to use the tragedy to support their political agenda.
On the progressive American web show, The Young Turks, host Cenk Uygur attempted to implicate not only Southerners who like the Confederate flag, but conservatives in general, in the Charleston massacre.
He implied that somehow Dylann Roof got his worldview from mainstream conservatism and pretty much all conservatives are closet racists.
He made this smear in a roundabout, weaselly way, through innuendo and guilt-by-association: Roof liked the Confederate flag; therefore, his ideology is representative of everyone who likes the Confederate flag.
The same insinuation was made by left-wing media outlets across the continent. “More than any individual actor, in recent history, Roof honored [the Confederate flag] in exactly the manner it always demanded—with human sacrifice,” Ta Nehisi Coates wrote in The Atlantic.
In other words, everyone with a Confederate flag on his truck is a potential Roof.
Che Guevara has long been a pop-culture icon of the left -- Premier Rachel Notley wears a Che wrist watch.
That’s the same Che who fought as a communist guerrilla in Cuba, oppressed his people under a totalitarian police state, and acted as Fidel Castro’s executioner-in-chief, training and overseeing the firing squad that massacred people for having the wrong political views.
“My nostrils dilate while savouring the acrid odour of gunpowder and blood,” Guevara wrote in his Motorcycle Diaries.
So, next time you see some pimple-faced hipster with a Che shirt, watch out. He’s sure to start imprisoning, torturing and executing people he dislikes at any moment.
If you already have an account on this newspaper, you can login to the newspaper to add your comments.

By adding a comment on the site, you accept our terms and conditions

Share your story, photo or video about something you've seen.
Choose among a variety of subscription packages and stay up to date with convenient home delivery and our on the go digital e-edition.
© 2016 Mayerthorpe Freelancer. All rights reserved. A member of Sun Media Community Newspapers part of Postmedia Network.