2015-07~07
http://atimes.com/2015/07/the-chinese-military-has-a-new-secret-weapon-lightning-fast-trains/

The Chinese military has a new secret weapon: Lightning-fast trains – Asia Times
Home › Asia Times News & Features › The Chinese military has a new secret weapon: Lightning-fast trains

By AT Editor on July 6, 2015 in 
Asia Times News & Features, Central Asia, China 
(From the Week)
By Robert Beckhusen
On most days, China’s high-speed rail network is for hauling millions — yes, millions — of commuters, vacationers, and tourists around the country.
But on May 14, one section of the growing network served a very different purpose. A People’s Liberation Army brigade from the Lanzhou military region boarded a high-speed train and set off for Xinjiang — 300 miles to the west.
Chinese high-speed trains
The exercise was a rapid and clever way to move troops around the huge country, something which Beijing is struggling to handle. China has the largest ground army and the longest land border in the world, which abuts 14 nations … more than any other country except Russia.
One of these countries — India — is one of Beijing’s rivals and the two countries have two ongoing border disputes. Myanmar to the south — and Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan to the west — are potentially unstable. Then there’s the border with North Korea.
It all adds up to lots of potential crises along the border. The result is that Beijing wants its army to have the ability to respond to lots of varied and potential crises. Hence high-speed trains.
China’s army is starting to move fast. Read more
Share this:Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)Share on Skype (Opens in new window)MoreClick to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)Click to print (Opens in new window)

Related
‹ Kim Jong-un had terrapin farm manager executed, says sourceChina’s regulators play catchup ›Categories: Asia Times News & Features, Central Asia, ChinaTags: Chinese military, high-speed trains, security, Xinjiang 
Related Articles



Rooftop revolution begins; the Green Knight rises 



US-Philippines base deal raises questions: China 



Bangladesh: Culture of impunity partly to blame for rise in child murders 



Vietnam parliament to put new leadership to work early 



N Korea fires 5 short-range projectiles, says South 



China’s Gambia gambit meant to pressure Tsai: Taiwan security agency 





On most days, China’s high-speed rail network is for hauling millions — yes, millions — of commuters, vacationers, and tourists around the country.
But on May 14, one section of the growing network served a very different purpose. A People’s Liberation Army brigade from the Lanzhou military region boarded a high-speed train and set off for Xinjiang — 300 miles to the west.
The exercise was a rapid and clever way to move troops around the huge country, something which Beijing is struggling to handle. China has the largest ground army and the longest land border in the world, which abuts 14 nations … more than any other country except Russia.
One of these countries — India — is one of Beijing’s rivals and the two countries have two ongoing border disputes. Myanmar to the south — and Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan to the west — are potentially unstable. Then there’s the border with North Korea.
It all adds up to lots of potential crises along the border. The result is that Beijing wants its army to have the ability to respond to lots of varied and potential crises. Hence high-speed trains.
These lightning fast trains could also be used to send massive aid rapidly to disaster areas hit by earthquake, typhoons, floods etc.
(From the National Interest) By Harry Kazianis Where were you when the towers fell? In just a few mo [...]
Trump rally violence: Donald defends manhandling protesters #ATVIDEO ... See MoreSee Less
Donald Trump complained of a double standard in coverage of incidents of protests and violence post his rallies, and instead defended his campaign manager after video showed the manager grabbing a …
Asia Times Online shared a link. ... See MoreSee Less
Vietnam’s outgoing parliament convened for a final session on Monday that will see a new leadership and cabinet take office three months early, ditching the normal route of the public electin…