2015-07~07
http://slinkingtowardretirement.com/?p=228343

Why Thailand Repatriated Its Uighurs to China – The Atlantic – Slinking Toward Retirement
In repatriating over 100 asylum-seeking Uighur Muslims, Thailand caved to pressure from Beijing.
Prayuth’s question, however, elided a key consideration: Thailand needs China’s support, and China wanted the Uighurs back.
A Muslim population native to Xinjiang, China’s vast westernmost region, the Uighurs have lived uneasily under Beijing rule since soon after the establishment of the People’s Republic in 1949. Like the Tibetans, Uighurs claim to be victims of economic discrimination and religious and cultural repression. In recent years, Chinese authorities in Xinjiang have established laws that prohibit Uighur women from wearing veils on their faces, and have discouraged fasting during Ramadan.
“The Chinese government has enormous difficulty accepting the idea that people could want to flee it and that they would have legitimate claims for doing so.”
Relations between the Uighur and Han Chinese, who now compose nearly half of Xinjiang’s population, are characterized by mistrust and mutual suspicion. In Urumqi and other major cities, Han and Uighur populations live apart in separate communities, and Han officials still command most of the political and economic power in the region.
Conflict between the two has occasionally turned violent. In 2009, ethnic riots in Urumqi claimed nearly 200 lives, and in retaliation the Chinese government shut off Internet access in Xinjiang for months. Since then, the region has endured a cycle of Uighur violence followed by heavy-handed government reaction.
According to Sophie Richardson, the China director of Human Rights Watch, it is very difficult to determine the whereabouts of repatriated refugees within China, which tends to obscure their status. “The Chinese government’s attitude is basically that the Uighurs are citizens, they’re home, and it’s nobody’s business but theirs,” she told me. But those whom outside organizations manage to track down face imprisonment—or worse. According to Human Rights Watch, an Uighur repatriated from Pakistan in 2007 was executed following his return to China.
“The Chinese government has enormous difficulty accepting the idea that people could want to flee it and that they would have legitimate claims for doing so,” said Richardson.
Criticized for condemning Uighurs to an uncertain fate on Wednesday, the Thai government defended itself by saying, effectively, that they could have done much worse. According to Prime Minister Prayuth, China had requested the return of all Uighur refugees—but Bangkok arranged for the majority of them to travel to Turkey.
“This decision was difficult to make,” he said. “It is not like all of a sudden China asks for Uighurs and we just give them back.”
The deportation has strained Thailand’s relationship with Turkey. On Friday, protesters demonstrated at the Thai embassy in Ankara and at a consulate in Istanbul, leading Prayunth to strike a conciliatory note. “Thailand and Turkey are not rivals and we do not want to destroy trade and commerce with Turkey.”
However, Prayunth added, “at the same time, we do not want to destroy the relationship between China and Thailand.”
Source: Why Thailand Repatriated Its Uighurs to China – The Atlantic