2015-07~07
http://gulftoday.ae/portal/850c4e25-61d3-4e83-bf06-10c53114e2f8.aspx

gulftoday.ae | Thailand blasted for repatriating Uighurs to China


 BANGKOK: Thailand sent back to China more than 100 Uighur refugees on Thursday, drawing harsh criticism from the UN refugee agency and human rights groups over concerns that ethnic minority members face persecution by the Chinese government. Protesters in Turkey, which had accepted an earlier batch of Uighur refugees from Thailand, ransacked the Thai Consulate overnight. Turkey’s foreign ministry condemned Thailand, saying the deportation violated international humanitarian laws and came despite “numerous initiatives” by Turkey to prevent their repatriation. The statement, which says 115 were deported, said Turkey will continue to monitor their fate. Thai deputy government spokesman Maj. Gen. Verachon Sukhonthapatipak said that Thailand had assurances from Chinese authorities about the safety of 109 Uighurs. However, in Beijing, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said that China would take action against those suspected of breaking the law. Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said that as a third country, the matter was not Thailand’s problem, and that the place they were sent to — he did not name China — would take care of it according to its justice system. “I’m asking if we don’t do it this way, then how would we do it?” he said. “Or do you want us to keep them for ages until they have children for three generations?” He said that Thailand has good relations with Turkey. “I want to explain to the Muslims that we do not mean to hurt anyone. We want to create peace as much as possible.” The office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees said it was “shocked” and considered Thailand’s action “a flagrant violation of international law.” The Uighur group had been in Thailand for over a year, along with others who had fled China and claimed to be Turkish, Verachon said. Thai authorities sought to verify their nationalities before relocating them, he said. “We found that about 170 of them were Turkish, so they were recently sent to Turkey,” he said. “And about 100 were Chinese, so they were sent to China as of this morning, under the agreement that their safety is guaranteed according to humanitarian principles.”