2015-07~07
http://www.salon.com/2015/07/09/uighurs_protesters_assault_thai_consulate_in_istanbul/

Uighurs protesters assault Thai Consulate in Istanbul - Salon.com
ANKARA, Turkey (AP) — Protesters stormed the Thai Consulate in Istanbul early Thursday to denounce Thailand’s decision to deport 109 ethnic Uighur migrants back to China, destroying furniture and hurling files and documents out into the yard, according to reports and video footage. Nine people were detained.
The group of some 100 gathered outside the consulate building waving Uighur flags and brought down the Thai flag. They then hurled rocks at the consulate, smashing windows and breaking in to the offices, where they demolished pictures and furniture and threw files out. No one was hurt in the attack.
Police allowed the protesters to pray outside the consulate before taking nine of them away for questioning.
Turkey has cultural ties to the Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking Muslim minority in China’s far west Xinjiang region, and pro-Uighur groups fear those deported face persecution by the Chinese government.
Thai authorities said the 109 were returned to China under an agreement that guarantees their safety.
Last week, Turkey took in a group of 173 Uighur migrants from Thailand, prompting Beijing to express displeasure with Ankara. China said Turkey’s action was tantamount to supporting illegal migration. Thailand said the group had been identified as Turkish.
Turkey’s ties with China had already been strained over unconfirmed reports in Turkey that Uighurs were being mistreated and prevented from worship and fasting during the Muslim month of Ramadan. Protests broke out across Turkey, and on one occasion a group of nationalists in Istanbul tried to attack a group of Korean tourists, mistaking them for Chinese nationals.
Uighurs have complained of cultural and religious suppression as well as economic marginalization under Chinese rule.
Ethnic violence in Xinjiang has left hundreds of people dead over the past two years. Beijing has blamed religious extremism for the violence.
Named for the 15th-century Dutch artist known for vivid depictions of life in Hell, Detective Hieronymus “Harry” Bosch goes head to head with LA’s worst criminals. Actor Titus Welliver was handpicked by author and executive producer Michael Connelly to take Bosch from the pages to the screen.
Michael Connelly personally selected every LA location featured in the Bosch opening sequence. After 20 years with this character, Connelly wanted to be sure the show reflected the authenticity that longtime fans have appreciated over the years.
Actor Titus Welliver is the real deal. Having once considered becoming an NYC police officer, he was immediately drawn to this role. Much like Connelly’s own commitment to the character, Welliver is very passionate about remaining true to the source material.
In the series, Harry Bosch lent his expertise as a cop to Hollywood for the blockbuster movie The Black Echo, based on his own life story. The poster for the film hangs proudly in his living room, high above the Hollywood Hills.
Inspired by Michael Connelly’s books City of Bones, Echo Park, and The Concrete Blonde, the first season of Bosch introduced Amazon audiences to complex character Harry Bosch. Season 2, which features storylines from Trunk Music, The Drop and The Last Coyote premieres March 11th on Amazon Prime Video.
As an LA crime reporter early in his career, Michael Connelly worked side by side with the LAPD. With three LA homicide detectives on staff as consultants, Bosch lives up to its promise of authenticity.
Harry Bosch lives in the hills just above the Cahuenga Pass, the perfect spot to look out over the city he protects. Michael Connelly found this very spot in 1989, where he often returns to contemplate the city and find inspiration. Connelly also had his own home above Hollywood many years ago – in the High Tower apartments, where noir character Philip Marlowe lived in Robert Altman’s The Long Goodbye.
To ensure they would be able to realistically capture a cop’s perspective, the Bosch cast participated in special training with the LAPD, where they were faced with hard choices in real-life scenarios.
Michael Connelly’s inspiration for the gritty realness of Harry Bosch was often found during real testimonies while sitting in court as a reporter for the LA Times, including this defining exchange from Season 1, “How many people have you killed?” “I don’t know.”
Michael Connelly, an avid fan himself, wrote in a broadcast of an LA Dodgers game for the opening scenes of Season 1.
Stream Season 2 of the Amazon Original Series Bosch with Prime.
Watch John Oliver Break Down Absurdity of Trump's Border Wall
5 robots you should be keeping your eye on. For the sake of humanity.
Talk about a rush job: A heart surgery done in 19 minutes instead of hours saved his life.
If someone you love is depressed, here's 12 springy things you can do together to help.
It's hard to date when you're fat, but not for the reasons you might think.
A new company combines action figures with dolls, and boys love them.