2015-07~07
http://www.proactiveinvestors.co.uk/columns/fuller-treacy-money/22579/what-is-in-the-bailout-deal-for-greece-and-what-happens-next-22579.html

What Is In the Bailout Deal for Greece and What Happens Next?

What Is In the Bailout Deal for Greece and What Happens Next?
 Here is the opening of this summary from Bloomberg, including three of the ‘Next Steps’: Greece has to go through a laundry list of actions and commit with concrete steps to reforms before sealing a new bailout of as much as 86 billion euros ($96 billion) that will keep the country in the euro.
 The role of the International Monetary Fund and Germany’s demand for an independent asset sales fund came close to becoming deal-breakers before an agreement was reached between the country and its creditors after almost 17 hours of talks. The IMF’s continued role was assured in any future loans to Greece.
 Greece must now take a series of steps to rebuild trust with its European partners and creditors after six months of talks brought the country to the brink of a euro exit:
 Next Steps
 * Euro-area finance ministers will hold a scheduled meeting later Monday in which they’re expected to look into bridge financing options that will keep Greece and its banks afloat while a longer-term loan agreement is negotiated. Greece’s urgent financing needs are estimated at 7 billion euros by July 20, including a payment of 3.5 billion euros to the European Central Bank due July 20, and another 5 billion euros by mid-August according to statement issued by euro area leaders.
 * The European Central Bank will also discuss whether to maintain or extend emergency funding for Greek banks, which remain closed for the third week.
 * Greece’s parliament has until Wednesday to approve an initial set of reforms, including tax and pension reforms. A second set of reforms, including additional measures taking into account the economy’s deterioration and the establishment of a 50-billion-euro asset fund, will have to be legislated on by July 22.
David Fuller's view
 Predictably, the clear short-term victors in this EU / Greece agreement are global stock markets, as we have seen over the last three market days.  The uncertainty and threat of ‘Grexit’ appears to have ended.  If so, the risk of contagion and collateral damage affecting other countries has been avoided.  Concerns over economic and political developments within the EU have subsided for the time being.
 This item continues in the Subscriber’s Area.

China Bid to Tame Its Wild West With A New Silk Road
 Here is the opening of this interesting article by Marion Dakers for The Telegraph: On the westernmost fringe of China’s western outpost of Xinjiang, the 1,000-mile border with Kazakhstan passes barely noticed among the pastures and mountain peaks that are still capped with snow in July.
 The hills are alive with the sound of shepherds on motorbikes, for whom the border, finally agreed between the two nations in 1998, is an irrelevance as they track their flocks of Bashibai sheep. It’s an unlikely place for an international free trade zone.
 This region, dotted with nomadic yurts and an uneasy mix of 56 ethnic groups including the Uyghur plurality, is being held up as China’s bridgehead into Central Asia and Europe. President Xi Jinping announced plans in 2013 to construct a new Silk Road for international trade, stretching from the eastern sprawl of Shanghai and Beijing through Xinjiang to Kazakhstan, Pakistan, Afghanistan before snaking into central and western Europe.
 The plan taking shape re-imagines dusty towns such as Tacheng, just over 10 miles from the Sino-Kazakh border, and new settlements like Horgos as land-ports for everything from tomatoes to cement mixers to make their way west.
 Yunnan coffee and Hewlett-Packard computers are already being exported by freight train, a two-week journey to Europe on the new Silk Road. Tax breaks, infrastructure and diplomacy are all being deployed to push China’s ties to the trading partners in its back yard.
 Like Beijing’s efforts to micro-manage the Chinese stock markets in recent weeks, the Silk Road initiative that launched in 2013 is a grandiose intervention that comes with some startling numbers.
 A $40bn (£26bn) infrastructure fund will be used to throw down bridges, roads and airports at staging posts along the route, while a a new $16bn Silk Road gold fund is intended to stockpile the metal and support mining projects along the trade routes.
 Mr Xi has said that the scheme would generate $2.5 trillion of additional trade for all those involved over the next 10 years, although the likelihood of Xinjiang being transformed into a global hub in the same way as other Chinese cities seems fairly remote.
 Unlike other regions, Xinjiang has so far barely felt the rumbles of China’s roaring financial markets and burgeoning international trade more than 3,000km (1,864 miles) away in Shanghai and Beijing, in spite of the billions raised in the financial world to pay for the region’s development.
David Fuller's view
 Whatever you think of China’s government, it is not short of big ideas.  With GDP growth continuing to slow during the country’s managed transformation into more of a consumer economy, it is also increasingly engaged in another massive infrastructure project, detailed in the article above. 
 The world has never seen development projects of a similar scale.  This will both alarm and intrigue investors.  Will it succeed?  That depends on the management.  The challenge is enormous, but equally, development along the Silk Road of a largely barren region approximately twice the size of France, is not without considerable long-term potential.
 There is a PDF of this article in the Subscriber’s Area.

My personal portfolio
 Two profits taken
David Fuller's view
 Details and charts are in the Subscriber’s Area.

Email of the day on oil prices and Canadian producers
 I'm looking for your view again on the Canadian energy sector.  I obviously am aware of the effect technology has had on the shale boom etc...I do disagree with most assertions that there is a flood of supply in oil at these price levels.  Anyway, aside from that- how do we go into this massive global GDP growth phase and not require an abundance of resources of all kinds?  Technology has brought on supply but they require much higher prices to break even.  Help me reconcile how we have this huge growth backdrop and yet the market is pricing in disaster levels in Canada?  Is the energy sector forever dead or is this a tremendous buying opportunity?   Thanks as always. Hope you and your family are well.
Eoin Treacy's view
 Thank you for a question sure to be of interest to the Collective. My family are all in rude health thank you. The oil sector has a lot of moving parts so let’s try to pick it apart.
 Saudi Arabia is pumping oil like it is going out of fashion and in a sense it is. The evolution of solar in particular, but also other renewables, batteries, electric cars, hydrogen fuel cells and the migration of work onto the cloud mean that oil now has challengers both as a transport fuel and for heating.

Gene therapy for cystic fibrosis shows encouraging results
 This article from Oxford University may be of interest to subscribers. Here is a section:  Patients who received therapy showed a significant but modest benefit in lung function compared with those receiving a placebo. The trial is the first to show that repeated doses of gene therapy can have a meaningful effect on the disease, and change the lung function of patients. However, the team say more research is needed to improve the effectiveness before the therapy will be suitable for clinical use.
 Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the commonest lethal inherited disease in the UK, affecting around 10,000 people nationally and over 90,000 worldwide. Patients' lungs become filled with thick sticky mucus and they are vulnerable to recurrent chest infections, which eventually destroy the lungs.
 The trial, conducted in London and Edinburgh, compared the effects of inhaled gene therapy and a placebo on patients with CF aged 12 and over. Lung function was assessed using a common method of measuring the volume of air a patient can forcibly exhale in one second. Over the course of a year, patients were given 12 treatments at monthly intervals. The results, published in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine, showed that at the end of the trial lung function was 3.7% better in patients who received the 'active' treatment. Participants with the worst lung function at the start of the study experienced a much greater 6.4% gain compared with those in the placebo group.
Eoin Treacy's view
 Gene therapy has been a long time coming and still has a long way to go but the promising results from human trials is a major step forward in the commercialisation of decades of research.

Hacked in the U.S.A.: China Not-So-Hidden Infiltration Op
 This article by Chris Strohm, Michael Riley and Jordan Robertson for Bloomberg may be of interest to subscribers. Here is a section:
 Some investigators suspect the attacks were part of a sweeping campaign to create a database on Americans that could be used to obtain commercial and government secrets.
 “China is building the Facebook of human intelligence capabilities,” said Adam Meyers, vice president of intelligence for cybersecurity company CrowdStrike Inc. “This appears to be a real maturity in the way they are using cyber to enable broader intelligence goals.”
 The most serious breach of records occurred at the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, where records for every person given a government background check for the past 15 years may have been compromised.  The head of the government personnel office, Katherine Archuleta, resigned Friday as lawmakers demanded to know what went wrong.
 The campaign began in early 2013 with the travel records, said Laura Galante, manager of threat intelligence for FireEye Inc., a private security company that has been investigating the cyber-attacks.
Eoin Treacy's view
 This article from the Financial Times focusing on Israel’s cyber security industry and this article from the Wall Street Journal focusing on encryption highlight just how much of an issue internet security has become. This is a rapidly evolving sector. There is a need for more security as data evolves to being available exclusively online. Despite, its utility the infrastructure we use today is deeply flawed when it comes to security. The uses to which even our most mundane data can be put are also evolving not least since we are increasingly reliant on our online presence tor real world utility.

 The information provided on this website (www.FTMoney.com) is for the purposes of information only.  This website and its content is not and should not be considered or deemed to be an offer of or invitation to engage in any investment activity.  Nothing FT Money does and nothing on this website is intended to operate or be construed as the giving of advice or the making of a recommendation by FT Money to any investor or prospective investor.

 FT Money and any other group or associated company of it is not authorised or regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK or any other regulatory body in any other jurisdiction.  

 By means of your login to our service you are deemed to thereby accept our current Terms of Business including this notice,

 Except for permission to download a single copy for personal use, the research published by FT Money may not be reproduced, distributed or published in whole or in part by any recipient for any purpose, without the prior express consent of FT Money.

 Information featured on the website is based upon information and data provided by FT Money and remains the intellectual property of FT Money.  Some of the information may also be provided by third parties and whilst FT Money will seek to ensure that information featured the website is updated on a regular basis, FT Money does not accept any responsibility for, and disclaims any and all liability for, any such information (including the accuracy of such information) or views or opinions expressed on the website. 

 Any person considering an investment opportunity as a result of data presented on the website should give full regard to all the content of the website, and should perform their own due diligence and obtain advice from suitably qualified professional advisers before investing.  Prospective investors are also encouraged and recommended to take their own independent legal and taxation advice together with any other advice that they may consider necessary to consider the benefits and risks attached to any investment opportunity.

 No representation or warranty, expressed or implied, is or will be made or given by FT Money  (including its executives, employees, agents, contractors and advisors) in relation to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of the website, save that any such liability is not excluded in respect of fraudulent misrepresentation.