2015-07~07
http://www.thaivisa.com/forum/topic/839765-thai-missions-in-europe-on-alert-amid-imminent-protests-over-uighur-return/

Thai missions in Europe on alert amid imminent protests over Uighur return - Thailand News - Thailand Forum
You currently have javascript disabled. Several functions may not work. Please re-enable javascript to access full functionality.
Thai missions in Europe on alert amid imminent protests over Uighur return
THE SUNDAY NATION 
BANGKOK: -- THAI EXPATRIATES in Europe have been warned to take extra precautions, as Thai embassies there brace for more protests over Thailand's deportation of Uighur asylum-seekers.
The Thai embassies in Austria, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden and Estonia have issued warnings to Thais living there against commenting publicly about the issue following a recent attack.
Thailand's mission in Vienna reported that it had been informed by local police about an imminent protest against the repatriation of more than 100 ethnic Uighurs back to China. Thai expatriates were advised not to visit the embassy at this time.
Earlier, the Thai Embassy in Berlin also issued a similar warning after a planned protest outside the mission's building.
The series of warnings came after the Thai honorary consulate in Istanbul was attacked by some 200 protesters on Wednesday.
In Sweden, the Thai Embassy there said some 300 Turkish people staged a protest against Thailand yesterday at a park near the mission. The embassy warned that dissatisfaction against Thailand was spreading in many European countries.
Meanwhile, eight more Uighurs have been sent to Turkey - four of them women and four children, according to Deputy Government Spokesman Maj-General Werachon Sukondhapatipak.
Those were in addition to more than 170 Uighurs who were repatriated to Turkey late last month.
The eight were sent to Turkey on Friday night. They were among the 60 Uighur migrants remaining in Thailand, Werachon said yesterday.
Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha has instructed the security agencies and the Interior Ministry to explain to Muslims in Thailand about the repatriation of the Uighur Muslims, Deputy Government Spokesman Maj-General Sansern Kaewkamnerd said yesterday. The prime minister does not want this matter to be linked to religion, he added.
Yesterday, the European Union condemned Thailand's deportation of the Uighurs to China, calling it a breach of the principle of non-refoulement, which is a core tenet of international humanitarian law. "Thailand has obligations under the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The remaining people of Turkic origin should be allowed to depart voluntarily to a country of their choice that is willing to receive them," the EU said in a statement. The EU move came after earlier protests by the United States and Turkey.
Meanwhile, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights also criticised Thailand over the matter.
"We are gravely concerned by the deportation to China of 109 people understood to be ethnic Uighurs - including some 20 women - by the Thai authorities," the agency's spokesman Rupert Colville said.
"We strongly urge the Thai authorities to ensure the protection of the 60 individuals who remain in detention and ensure that no further deportations are made to countries where there are substantial grounds to believe that they would face an imminent risk of grave human rights violations."
Why do they think Thai expats in general are likely to be accosted by protesters ? 
I didn't know that in Estonia has a Thai Embassy i guess thai news know more then we Estonians
Why do they think Thai expats in general are likely to be accosted by protesters ? 
Because Thailand is always the innocent  victim. Wrongly accused when they have done no ill. Suffering in stoic silence until the day justice takes its course
Thai embassies in four countries warned to brace for possible protestsBANGKOK: -- The Foreign Ministry has been instructed by the government to keep a close watch for possible protests against last week’s deportation off 109 Uighurs to China in countries where they are a high concentration of Uighurs.
Protests have already taken place in front of Thai embassies in Turkey, Sweden and Germany and may occur in Australia, France, Japan and the United States where there are Uighur communities.
Meanwhile, Mr Anudit Kunakorn, secretary-general of the National Security Council, said that Prime Minister Prayut Chan-ocha would chair the NSC meeting this week during which Uighur refugee problem would be discussed.
A total of 52 Uighur migrants still in Thailand out of over 200 who took refuge in Thailand since last year. 109 of them have been deported to China and over 120 returned to Turkey last week.
Maj-Gen Veerachon Sukonthapatipark, deputy government spokesman, said that eight Uighurs, including four women and four children, were sent back to Turkey on June 10 while the remaining 52 are now under nationality verification before there is a decision where they are to be deported.
What I can't understand is why all these protestors don't take in a complete Uighur family and be personally responsible for that family, personally, financially and in every other way until the Uighur family has fully integrated into that country and accepts ALL the rules and regulations of the host country and host family.
That way the refugees will have a place to go to, the host country will not be responsible for them (but the host family will) financially and they will be out of Thailand.
Seyit Tumturk, vice president of the World Uighur Congress (WUC) openly admitted to Reuters here that the WUC is behind these "protests and when ever we hear about the plight of the Uighur  refugees the WUC is mentioned. Of course the WUC is funded by the American National Endowment for Democracy (NED) as shown here  and no surprises that they are based in Washington DC as shown here.
Of course one can see strong funding support between NED's and US backed NGO's in Thailand with some of these NGO's listed here. Off course with a bit of research (of which I won't extrapolate here as it this is another story in itself and I would be digressing from the main point) some of these "NGO's" are associated to certain political persuasions in Thailand that have a strong differing opinion to certain entities within Thailand and they make that difference in opinion quite public. I won't name names of the specific organisations due to not extrapolating on the complicated links between NEDS, them and the political persuasions within Thailand they are associated with. 
When doing a bit of research into this which is very enlightening in fact it can be seen that the poor Uighurs are just pawns in a much bigger game (my opinion) and I am sure the Thai govt are processing them adequately and fairly. Of course those illegal immigrants that raise red flags need to be returned to their country of origin in my opinion. 
In my opinion they could adopt Australia's policy of turning these illegal immigrants back to their own country before they even make it to Australia. Of course there is no agenda between America and Australia were strong public reactions would be justified so it is left alone. Again this is my opinion.
Austria, lol.....Austria has some little refugee problem at the moment as well...
And the only people protesting in these protests are the Muslims, that are not even from those European countries, like the Turks protesting in Sweden, nothing new about the Turks, and I don't see these people offering to fund and support them, all they do is protest as always