2015-07~07
http://www.thestar.com.my/News/Regional/2015/07/19/Embracing-moral-values-as-a-community/

Embracing moral values as a community - Regional | The Star Online
Time to celebrate: People exchanging greetings at the Nanxiapo Mosque in Beijing.
BEIJING: Walking down the street of a neighbourhood in Chaowai sub-district, the Aidilfitri sermon could be heard broadcasting from the prayer hall of Nanxiapo Mosque.
Inside the compound of the mosque, Muslims have gathered to perform their prayers to mark the first day of Syawal.
Ismail Zhang Guohua, 57, said he found valuable lessons in this year’s sermon.
“The imam reminds us to self-reflect and walk on a canonical path of life that is in line with Islamic teachings,” the employee in a foreign-owned enterprise said.
Zhang said Muslims are one of the units in China and each follower should play his role in embracing good moral values and acting for the greater good of the society.
Nanxiapo Mosque, which has a history of 370 years, is one of the nine mosques in Chaoyang district in the capital of China.
Ishag Ma Haijun, an imam, said the mosque serves about 10,000 Muslims, including the local Hui people, Han Muslims, Uighurs, Kazakhs and foreign devotees.
“The issue of religious oppression does not exist in Beijing.
“For the convenience of Muslims, our mosque had been preparing food for the daily breaking of fast throughout the holy month of Ramadan,” the 35-year-old said.
This Ramadan was tainted by protests in Turkey over an alleged repression of Muslims in Xinjiang province, where Uighurs in the region were reportedly banned from fasting.
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hua Chunying told a daily press briefing earlier that the 10 million Uighurs in Xinjiang are entitled to freedom of religion, as provided in the constitution.
The senior imam of Nanxiapo Mosque, Jamaluddin An Cunhu, said the festive atmosphere at the mosque was a testimony to the country’s inclusive policy.
“The government cares for the minority community, while the latter acknowledges the country’s development.”

Tags / Keywords:
Religion
 , 
 hari raya
 , 
 China


China orders probe after polluting factory fined a meagre RM377


From Sydney to New York, landmarks go dark for Earth Hour


Visa fee up eight times if staying over 30 days


Meldonium can take months to leave body, says drug maker

Copyright Â© 1995- Star Media Group Berhad (ROC 10894D)(Formerly known as Star Publications (Malaysia) Berhad)