2015-07~07
http://www.azerbaijannews.net/index.php/sid/234511123

Azerbaijan News - The Chinese military has a new secret weapon: Lightning-fast trains

On most days, China’s high-speed rail network is for hauling millions -- yes, millions -- of commuters, vacationers, and tourists around the country.

But on May 14, one section of the growing network served a very different purpose. A People’s Liberation Army brigade from the Lanzhou military region boarded a high-speed train and set off for Xinjiang -- 300 miles to the west.
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Experienced striker Sunil Chhetri has been ruled out of the Indian football squad for the forthcoming World Cup qualifier against Iran due to an injury. Chhetri, who ...
Kazakhstan ruling party is expected to retain its control in the lower house of parliament in a snap election on March 20. President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition ...
Astana, March 20 (IANS) Voters across Kazkhstan on Sunday began casting their ballots in early legislative elections to choose a new parliament. Polling stations opened at 7.00 a.m., EFE news ...
A top official with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) has welcomed Azerbaijan's recent release of some civil-society activists and journalists and called for the release ...
Astana (Kazakhstan), March 19 (IANS) Star wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt has bagged an Olympic quota in the men's 65 kg freestyle category at ongoing Asian qualifying tournament here on Saturday. In the ...
In his latest endeavor to gin up some or any foreign investment, Tajikistan's President Emomali Rahmon last week traveled to the United Arab Emirates. The bilateral deals signed at the conclusion ...
Nerves on the Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan cooled somewhat on March 21 with news that both sides agreed to draw back their forces from a disputed area. Authorities in Kyrgyzstan, who have been the only ...
Exit polls in Kazakhstan have provided a preliminary confirmation of widely expected results in the March 20 parliamentary elections, showing the ruling Nur Otan party winning around 82 percent of ...
Kazakhstan is voting in a snap parliamentary election expected to return a storming victory for the ruling Nur Otan party, which has run without any substantive opposition. Speaking as he cast his ...
A sudden deployment of troops by Uzbekistan along a disputed section of border has rattled nerves in Kyrgyzstan. Kyrgyzstan's border service reported on March 18 that Uzbek troops have blocked an ...
ASTANA, 19th March, 2016 (WAM) -- Kazakh voters will head to the voting centres to elect 107 parliamentary members in early parliamentary elections to promote social and economic reforms as well as ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - Parliamentary elections in Kazakhstan are held in a fair and perfect manner, said deputy chair of the Milli Majlis (Parliament of Azerbaijan) Valeh Alasgarov, who is observing ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - Hundreds of thousands of animals have died in Mongolia's extreme weather this year but charities say the crisis has gone almost unnoticed by the world, according ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - Participants of the 3rd session of the Russian-Mongolian working group on cooperation in subsoil use discussed conditions for the transfer of the copies of geological reports ...
Bishkek (AKIpress) - The State Border Service of Kyrgyzstan refuses information about the alleged skirmish on the Kyrgyz-Uzbek border area in Chalasart village, Aksy district, Jalal-Abad region, in ...
The Kazakh president Nursultan Nazarbayev visited the headquarters of Nur Otan party around midnight, 24.kz reported. At the end of the announcement of exit-poll results, ...
According to exit poll, Nur Otan Party has won 82% of vote in parliamentary election, reported Yulia Kuchinskaya - director of the Institute for Democracy during a briefing in Central ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 20 Trend: Kazakhstan has completed voting in parliamentary elections and elections to the maslikhats (local representative bodies). ...
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan issued a statement regarding the suicide bombing in Istanbul, Turkey, Kazinform reported. "Kazakhstan strongly ...
Baku, Azerbaijan, March 20 Trend: As of 14:00 (UTC/GMT +4 hours), the voter turnout in the election of members for the Kazakh parliament and local representative ...
Azerbaijan News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Mountainous terrain, spas, historical sites, an attractive seacoast and cave settlements are the chief attractions of Azerbaijan.
Azerbaijan will appeal to travelers who are looking for something truly different, who are accustomed to travel in the former Soviet Union and who enjoy roughing things a bit. Don't go expecting varied shopping, nightlife, deluxe accommodations or a relaxing vacation.
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at the state-owned coal and steel companies into low paying jobs. Miners that ...
Uta Wehn The connection between water and jobs is not necessarily an obvious one. This year's World Water Development Report (WWDR 2016) is dedicated to examining this relationship. It analyses how ...
WASHINGTON -- On March 18, 's Moscow bureau administrator was approached at her home by two unknown men identifying themselves as journalists with Russia's NTV channel and seeking personal ...
CAIRO, Egypt - Egypt’s Interior Ministry has claimed that the death toll from a mortar attack has risen to 15. The ministry pointed out that all the victims are policemen, including three ...
PRETORIA, South Africa— South Africa’s ruling party, the African National Congress, on Sunday said it had full confidence in President Jacob Zuma in the wake of mounting allegations of political ...
ISTANBUL — A Turkish militant with links to the Islamic State was the suicide bomber who blew himself up killing four foreigners in Istanbul over the weekend, Turkey’s Interior Minister Ekfan ...
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia - Saudi Arabia’s leading electrical product manufacturer, Alfanar Group has announced that it is close to finalising the procedures for the acquisition of Germany-based ...
WASHINGTON – The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by temporarily easing trade sanctions slapped earlier this month against the Chinese telecom equipment and smartphone ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
SYDNEY, Australia - The sleeker, two-door version of the Mercedes-AMG C63 S is set to hit the roads down under in June 2016. AMG’s C63 Coupe is reportedly priced from $162,400 and reviews have ...
© 1999 - 2016 Azerbaijan News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)