2015-07~07
http://en.people.cn/n/2015/0724/c98649-8925967.html

‘Beautiful China, Amazing Silk Road’ Photography Exhibition held in Sydney - People's Daily Online

 SYDNEY, July 24 -- The China-Australia photography exhibition ‘Beautiful China, Amazing Silk Road’ opened at Sydney's World Square on Friday, July 24, 2015, showing photographic masterpieces of historical heritages, beautiful sceneries and the charms of the ancient Silk Road of China.

 The exhibition selected photos of around 100 pieces coming from more than 20 Chinese and Australian photographers. The amazing pictures and different perspectives engaged by the photographers well-presented the vibrancy of the ancient Silk Road to the Australian audiences, bringing people to experience the natural landscape and cultural customs, and most importantly, the charms of Western China.

 "The Silk Road was like a business card of ancient China to the rest of the world, in which peace, friendship and cooperation were written. At present, the initiative by the Chinese government to build 'Silk Road Economic Belt' and '21st Century Maritime Silk Road', inheriting the Silk Road spirit, namely openness, inclusiveness, mutual learning and mutual benefit, and following the trend of the times, namely peace, development, cooperation and win-win, combined tightly the rapidly growing Chinese economy with the interests of the countries along the Road, therefore providing them new opportunities," said H.E. Li Huaxin, the Consul General of the Consulate-General of the People's Republic of China in Sydney when addressing the opening ceremony.

 "As comprehensive strategic partners, China and Australia are facing broad prospect for cooperation. Australia’s current economic reform, structural adjustment and vision to develop Northern Australia echo and strongly complement China’s 'Road and Belt' initiative. The connection of the macro-development strategies of our two countries will surely inject strong momentum to deepen bilateral cooperation," Consul General Li Huaxin said.

 Mr. Weijian Luo, the director of the China National Tourism Administration Sydney Office also made a speech. He said, "This year, China National Tourism Administration introduced the theme for 2015 as 'Beautiful China, Year of Silk Road Tourism'. The 'One Belt, One Road' initiative has provided countries and regions along the road with valuable historical opportunity to boost their tourism and is also an important way to deepen the tourism cooperation between those countries." He hopes that more Australian friends can have a better understanding and connection with China through this exhibition.

 Mr. Mark Coure, MP, representing the Premier of New South Wales Mike Baird, addressed that these beautiful photographic works have provided a pleasant opportunity for Australia to have a better understanding of the profound Chinese history. In the congratulatory letters sent by Luke Foley, the leader of the opposition party in New South Wales and Clover Moore, Mayor of Sydney, they both extended their gratitude to the sponsoring organization for their contribution to the promotion of the Chinese and Australian cultures.

 During the ceremony, photographers from China and Australia also sent fine photographic masterpieces to the New South Wales government, Sydney City Council and the Consulate-General of the People's Republic of China in Sydney.

 The event is co-hosted by China National Tourism Administration Sydney Office and People's Daily Online Australia. Xinjiang Photographer Association, Fujian Province New Silk Road Promotion Association, Taian Youth Photographer Association, Australia Digital Photography Association, the Consulate-General of the People's Republic of China in Sydney and China Culture Centre in Sydney all provided strong supports to this event.

 More than 100 VIP guests joined the grand opening. The exhibition will last for two days.