2015-07~07
http://www.neurope.eu/article/chinas-muslim-uighur-refugees-overshadows-erdogans-visit-to-beijing/

China’s Muslim Uighur refugees overshadows Erdogan’s visit to Beijing
Turkish and Uighur protestors shout slogans against China as they are holding flags during a demonstration in front of Chinese consulate in Istanbul, Turkey on 05 July 2010.
Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan’s official visit to China earlier this week has raised the issue of China’s Turkic language-speaking Muslic ethnic minority Uighurs and the thousands have reached Turkey. Beijing has accused Ankara of helping them flee unlawfully, according to a Reuters report that was published on the World Uyghur Congress website.
Even though Turkish officials deny playing any direct role in assisting the flight, documents, labelled “Republic of Turkey Emergency Alien’s Travel Document” suggest otherwise.
According to Reuters, one Uighur mother, Summeye, 35, said she was given it, along with documents for herself and her three other children, by a diplomat at the Turkish embassy in Kuala Lumpur, which she reached after a nine-day journey transported by people smugglers through Cambodia, Vietnam and Thailand.
The document, valid only for travel to Turkey, lists her baby’s place of birth as Turpan, a city in China’s western Xinjiang region. Under “nationality”, it says “East Turkestan”, the name Uighur activists and their Turkish supporters give for their Chinese-ruled homeland.
Reuters reported that other Uighurs interviewed in Istanbul also said they had reached Turkey last year through a similar route, hiring people-smugglers to escape China and receiving travel documents on the way.
Back in Beijing, Tong Bishan, a senior Chinese police officer helping to lead Beijing’s efforts to get Uighurs returned, told reporters earlier this month that the issue of Turkey providing travel documents at embassies in southeast Asia has been raised “at high levels”.
“The general attitude of the Turkish government has been not bad,” he said. “But what we have seen is that employees at Turkish embassies have been providing help.”
Uighurs fleeing China say they are escaping repression by the Chinese authorities.
“They don’t allow us to live as Muslims,” one Uighur refugee was quoted as saying by Reuters. She fled to Turkey last October with her three children and lives in the basement of a working-class housing block in Istanbul.
“You can’t pray. You can’t keep more than one Koran at home. You can’t teach Islam to your children. You can’t fast and you can’t go to Hajj. When you’re deprived of your whole identity, what’s the point?” she said, speaking through a translator and covered from head to toe in a chador.
China, however, routinely denies claims that it represses the Uighurs and says their freedom of religion is respected. In turn, Beijing accuses a group called the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) of waging an increasingly violent campaign for an independent state in Xinjiang and says it is recruiting followers to train in the Middle East.