2015-07~07
http://www.tolonews.com/en/afghanistan/20405-china-pledges-security-support-for-afghanistan

China Pledges Security Support for Afghanistan
Chinese President Xi Jinping announced on Friday his intentions to provide Afghanistan with more security equipment and training.
China, one of the major economic powers in the world, has expressed interest in helping Afghanistan achieve peace and stability as the country is worried about separatist groups in its far western region of Xinjiang, which Afghanistan. 
"Increasing security cooperation suits both countries' interests. China will continue to supply Afghanistan with security supplies, technology, equipment and training assistance," Xi told President Ashraf Ghani during a Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) summit in Ufa city of Russia.
China has long pledged to play a "huge" commercial role in helping rebuilding Afghanistan as the U.S. is pulling out troops from the country.
Meanwhile, the Russian President Vladimir Putin acknowledged expansion of Daesh group in Afghanistan.
"We noted the growing activities of the Daesh group militants who have extended their tentacles into this country," Putin said at a press conference after the summit.
His statements came after President Ghani admitted at the SCO summit the presence of the newly-emerged extremist group in the country.
Ghani called on representatives of regional nations to fight Daesh militants jointly.
"We have a Daesh presence [in Afghanistan] and we are pleased to report that important elements of Daesh were eliminated in the last three days," Ghani said.
In addition, Ghani acknowledged that the steady flow of militants from in Waziristan caused by Pakistan's military operations still presents a major security challenge for Afghanistan.
"There is a continuous flow of terrorists from Pakistan that target both countries," Ghani told the gathering, which included Pakistani PM Nawaz Sharif.

 Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames.
