2015-07~07
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/policies-politics/article/1833390/communist-party-chief-time-deadly-2009-riots-western

Communist Party chief at time of deadly 2009 riots in Western Chinese city expelled and faces graft charges | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Li Zhi is remembered for pleading with angry crowd to disperse and avoid further violence
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
The former Communist Party boss of the western Chinese city of Urumqi at the time of deadly ethnic clashes in 2009 has been expelled from the party and faces prosecution for corruption, the official state news service reported.
Li Zhi, also a former deputy head of the regional legislature of Xinjiang autonomous region of which Urumqi is the capital, allegedly forged personal records, took bribes and committed adultery after the party’s anti-graft watchdog concluded its internal probe, Xinhua reported on Monday.
Based the CCDI’s findings, the Supreme People’s Procuratorate – the state prosecutor – said it had launched a criminal investigation into Li for alleged bribe-taking, Xinhua added.
The Central Commission for Discipline Inspection said Li had “seriously violated socialist morality and committed adultery”, attempted to hamper the investigation, and hide and transfer illicit funds and property.
Li, 64, became party chief of Urumqi in November, 2006, but was sacked two months after riots in the city broke out on July 5, 2009 between Han and Uygur residents, which left 197 people dead and more than 1,600 injured. More fighting broke out two days later after a protest by more than 300 Uygurs in Urumqi’s People’s Square.
The July riots had started during a protest march calling for an inquiry into a violent dispute on June 25 between migrant Uygur and Han workers at a factory in Shaoguan, in Guangdong province, which left at least two Uygurs dead.
Further Urumqi unrest broke out on September 3, 2009, when thousands of Han residents protested, demanding the resignation of regional party boss Wang Lequan after reports of mysterious syringe attacks triggered fear among residents.
Li was widely remembered for standing on top of a police vehicle in Nanmen Square for nearly two hours, begging the protesters to go home. Li was later fired, becoming what many said was a scapegoat for Wang.
CCDI said in a statement on Monday that Li had also accepted monetary gifts and sought benefits for others by taking advantage of his post to approve officials’ promotions and lobby for businesses, and “asked for and accepting huge amount of bribes”.
It criticised Li for showing no intention of disciplining himself and stopping his wrongdoings even after the new party leadership under Xi Jinping launched the anti-corruption campaign in late 2012.