2015-07~07
http://en.cihan.com.tr/en/erdogan-to-visit-beijing-this-week-amid-reports-of-pressure-on-uighurs-1823307.htm

Erdoğan to visit Beijing this week amid reports of pressure on Uighurs - Cihan

President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan is preparing for an official visit to Beijing this week, amid reports of religious pressure on China's Turkic-language-speaking Muslim ethnic minority.The folded piece of paper with a photo of a 4-month-old baby tells a story that will loom over President Erdoğan and his Chinese hosts when he visits Beijing on Tuesday.Baby Arife is a Uighur, who have reached Turkey, mostly since last year, infuriating Beijing, which accuses Ankara of helping its citizens flee unlawfully.Turkish officials deny playing any direct role in assisting the flight. But the document, labeled "Republic of Turkey Emergency Alien's Travel Document" suggests otherwise.Arife's mother, Sümeyye, 35, says she was given it, along with documents for herself and her three other children, by a diplomat at the Turkish Embassy in Kuala Lumpur, which she reached after a nine-day journey transported by people smugglers through Cambodia, Vietnam and Thailand.The document, valid only for travel to Turkey, lists the baby's place of birth as Turpan, a city in China's western Xinjiang region. Under "nationality," it says "East Turkestan," the name Uighur activists and their Turkish supporters give for their Chinese-ruled homeland.Other Uighurs in İstanbul told Reuters they too had reached Turkey last year through a similar route, hiring people-smugglers to escape China and receiving travel documents on the way.The issue is an uncomfortable one for Ankara, which says it is open to valid asylum claims by victims of repression who reach its territory, but denies acting abroad to assist the exodus of Uighurs that surged last year. Representatives of Turkey's Foreign Ministry said they were not immediately able to comment on the temporary travel document seen by Reuters.Tong Bishan, a senior Chinese police officer helping to lead Beijing's efforts to get Uighurs returned, said the issue of Turkey providing travel documents at embassies in Southeast Asia has been raised "at high levels.""The general attitude of the Turkish government has been not bad," he told reporters this month. "But what we have seen is that employees at Turkish embassies have been providing help."Uighurs fleeing China say they are escaping repression by the Chinese authorities. "They don't allow us to live as Muslims," said another Uighur refugee, also named Sümeyye, who fled to Turkey last October with her three children and lives in the basement of a working-class housing block in İstanbul."You can't pray. You can't keep more than one Quran at home. You can't teach Islam to your children. You can't fast and you can't go to hajj. When you're deprived of your whole identity, what's the point?" she said, speaking through a translator and covered from head to toe in a chador.In an apparent bid to placate Beijing, Erdoğan said the unrest might have been aimed at damaging his trip, when he plans to raise the Uighurs' plight.China denies it represses the Uighurs and says their freedom of religion is respected. It accuses a group called the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) of waging an increasingly violent campaign for an independent state in Xinjiang and says it is recruiting followers to train in the Middle East."A lot of these people are victims. We don't want to see them going to Turkey to become cannon fodder, to become new recruits for the terrorists," said Tong, the Chinese police chief. Uighurs themselves acknowledge that some members of their community have crossed from Turkey to fight alongside Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) militants in Syria, but say this is a small minority."These militants lure them, saying they will help them train for the Uighur cause, they will give them weapons and they will support them against China," Uighur refugee Adil Abdulgaffar, 49, said in his apartment in İstanbul's working-class Sefaköy district, next to a bookshelf filled with Muslim prayer books."I've known of people who have gone off to Syria from Turkey with hopes that these promises will come true. But I also know that they very much regret it and would like to come back," he said. "Our brothers who have been battling for their existence for the past 50 to 60 years are longing for guns. They are also very naive, and open to being tricked."(Cihan/Today's Zaman)