2015-07~07
http://asia.nikkei.com/Politics-Economy/International-Relations/Thailand-tries-to-quiet-barrage-of-criticism

Uighur deportation shockwave : Thailand tries to quiet barrage of criticism- Nikkei Asian Review
BANGKOK -- Bombarded with criticism from home and abroad, the Thai government now seems to be trying to patch things up.
     But by forcibly deporting over 100 ethnic Uighur refugees back to China on Thursday, it might have stumbled into a pot of hot water that might be hard to get out of.
     Thailand's Ministry of Foreign Affairs announced Friday that the government is preparing to send a delegation to China to follow up on how the 109 deportees are being treated. The National Security Council of Thailand is putting the delegation together. In a bid for credibility, it may invite representatives from the International Committee of the Red Cross and other organizations to accompany the delegation.
     The Ministry also released a statement saying the "Chinese government has provided assurance that [the deported Uighurs] will be given fair treatment and safety."
     Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha also reiterated to reporters on Friday that "China said it will provide safety to them."
     The Chinese government has not officially confirmed any invitation to the Thai delegation. Hua Chunying, a Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman, on Friday only said Beijing is "working together with the Thais to fight against the issue of illegal immigrants." She called the barrage of criticism "definitely unacceptable."
     Whether Bangkok's face-saving moves, under the tacit support of Beijing, will defuse the situation is questionable. The Bangkok Post newspaper on Saturday ran an editorial that in effect did not give any credence to Friday's announcement. If the deported Uighurs "already face criminal charges," the editorial says, "of course, the alleged promise by China to treat them well is false."
     The editorial went on to emphasize that the episode -- in which the refugees were secretly deported rather than officially extradited -- seems to show that "Thailand once again has bent to the threats of China."
     When Thursday dawned in the U.S., Washington added its voice to the chorus of criticism. John Kirby, a spokesman at the U.S. Department of State, condemned the move and expressed "grave disappointment" in Thailand.
     The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the Turkish government and major international human rights organizations are also among the parties that have deplored Thailand's move. Unusually harsh phrases like "despicable act" and "flagrant violation of international law" have been used. Along with Thai human rights activists, a Thai Muslim group issued a statement Friday demanding an explanation from the junta on why the Uighurs, who are Turkic-speaking Muslims, were deported.
     The Uighur issue may spill over to business dealings as well. The Nation, another English-language newspaper in Thailand, on Saturday reported that the uproar may delay free trade talks between Thailand and Turkey.
     Due to religious and cultural affinities, Turkey in June accepted for resettlement 172 Uighur refugees from Thailand. The Turkish government and its people, who consider Uighurs kinsmen, were outraged upon hearing the news. On Thursday, an angry mob vandalized Thailand's honorary consulate in Istanbul. As a result, the Thai government temporarily closed its embassy and consulate in Turkey.
You have limited access. To enjoy full access, subscribe now.
Your subscription renewal has not been processed.Please update your payment information and enjoy full access.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week

Your subscription renewal could not be processed. Please update your payment information to continue enjoying the Nikkei Asian Review.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week


 Nikkei Asian Review is the only publication that brings you Insight about Asia, from the inside out.
 XXcontractNameXX has enabled you free full access to Nikkei Asian Review.
