2015-08~09
http://www.freenewspos.com/en/classified-news-article/d/1447315/today/central-officials-visit-islamic-theology-academy-university-martyrs-cemetery-in-xinjiang

Central officials visit Islamic theology academy, university,
"Central officials visit..." (Theme) The lastest total: 20. you can read with page flip.
Yu Zhengsheng (C), chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), who is leading a central government delegation to attend events marking the 60th anniversary of the establishment of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, visits Xinjiang Islamic Institute in Urumqi, capital of northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Sept. 25, 2015. (Xinhua/Rao Aimin)
BEIJING, Sept. 26 (Xinhua) -- Top Chinese political advisor Yu Zhengsheng on Friday afternoon visited the Islamic Theology Academy and Xinjiang University in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, to extend regards to local religious, educational and cultural circles.
Talking with religious people, Yu, chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), said that people in Xinjiang enjoy ample religious freedom, and have made active contribution to local economic and social
In Xinjiang university, Yu said that since the founding of the autonomous region 60 years ago, Xinjiang has taken important steps in the development of educational and cultural undertakings.
He expressed the wish that educatonal and cultural workers continue to participate in and promote reform and development in Xinjiang, providing better services to decision-making of the Party and government.
In the afternoon, Yu and the central government delegaton also visited the Urumqi revolutionary martyres cemetery. He presented flowers to the monument of the people's heroes and viewed materials showcasing their heroic deeds at the exhibition hall.
Yu arrived in Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, on Friday leading a 69-member central government delegation to attend festivities marking the 60th anniversary of the region's founding.
Three sub-delegations of central officials visited various places in Urumqi in the afternoon, to extend festive greetings to local people and service men.

Write an article relevant this topic
share on facebook
share on twitter
share on google plus
share on oknews
share on linkedin
share on digg
share on reddit
share on newsvine
share on pinterest
share on netlog
share on tumblr
share on delicious
send email
print
add to favorite

You can get help through the POS media technology and resources, Give yourself to achieve specialized services.