2015-08~09
http://www.china.org.cn/china/Off_the_Wire/2015-10/01/content_36724261.htm

Xinhua Insight: Xinjiang pivotal in Silk Road revival - China.org.cn
Tented camel caravans winding their
way across trackless deserts and steep mountains of Central Asia
might still be a picture in many people's minds when the Silk Road
is mentioned.
In reality, the ancient trade route
between East Asia and Europe is reviving along with roaring freight
trains and trucks, more than a millennium after it faded into
obscurity due to frequent wars and the rise of sea
transportation.
Located in China's far west but in
the middle of the Silk Road, Xinjiang is ready to embrace the
revival as China launched the Silk Road Economic Belt initiative
two years ago with aims to boost infrastructure and trade between
China, Central Asia and Europe.
Yawuz Selim, a 38-year-old Turkish
businessman, is one of many who are finding their fortune in
Xinjiang.
Selim realized that Turkey's
products were very popular in Xinjiang during his first visit to
the regional capital of Urumqi in 2012. He set up a children's
clothing store in the city the next year after he quit the job as
an accountant in Istanbul.
"I hope to bring top quality
Turkish dresses to Xinjiang and expand my business eastward, where
there is more purchasing power," he said.
When a Han Dynasty emperor sent his
envoy Zhang Qian on a diplomatic mission to Central Asia more than
2,000 years ago, he set in motion an economic miracle.
The Silk Road evokes a resplendent
past of trade uniting the people and cultures as Asia and Europe.
Now, China is pursuing an ambitious plan to revive these trading
links with its neighbors, extending all the way to the eastern
Mediterranean.
As the bridgehead, Xinjiang plays
an important role, thanks to its geopolitical,cultural and resource
advantages.
With cargo trains now linking
Chinese cities with Europe, trade volume at northwest Xinjiang's
Alataw Pass on the Kazakhstan border reached 25 million tonnes last
year, after an average growth of 27 percent since 1991.
South Xinjiang's largest city of
Kashgar, center of the Uygur civilization and once an important
staging post along the Silk Road, continues to attract tourists
with its architecture, mosques and craftsmen.
At the same time, impressive
buildings are rising to the east of the old town. Eighteen
high-rises, including two 58-storey skyscrapers, are planned by the
Kashgar government.
Expectations are high in Kashgar.
Projects such as the China-Pakistan and China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan
railways, though still in the discussion phase, have excited
government officials and local people alike.
Already with direct flights to
Islamabad, there are plans for scheduled flights to central Asia
and Turkey. The city has never concealed its intention to emulate
the success of Shenzhen in south China, which took the lead in
assisting Kashgar's development because of a pairing program.
In 2010, the slogan "Shenzhen in
the east, Kashgar in the west" became emblematic of the city's new
status as an special economic zone. Just as Shenzhen's success
relies heavily on neighboring Hong Kong, Kashgar plans to work
closely with its own neighbors: Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan
and Pakistan. A tariff-free zone to the north of Kashgar Airport
opened in April.
At a workshop in the zone, hundreds
of local Uygur men and women assemble data cables and mobile phone
chargers. An eye-catching billboard hangs on the wall of the Zhanbo
Electronics Co. Ltd, a subsidiary of Guangdong-based Sike
Electronics Company. It reads "train 10,000 youths, employ them and
help 10,000 households out of poverty."
The company currently exports 30
percent of its products to India and Pakistan. Xiong Fengling,
chief financial officer of the company, said, "We come here for the
geographic advantages."
"The Silk Road is awakened after a
long period of slumber," said Gabriella Bonino, 62, an Italian who
arrived in Kashgar after months of travel along the Silk Road.
"Townships along the route have
become big cities," said Bonino, who is writing a book about the
new Silk Road, is much different from that described by her
countryman Marco Polo some 700 year ago.
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region,
with a population of 22 million from 47 ethnic groups, will
celebrate its 60th anniversary on Thursday. A system of ethnic
regional autonomy was established in Xinjiang when it was founded
on Oct. 1, 1955.
All ethnic groups enjoy the right
to vote, education, use their own language and inherit their
traditions, as well as the right of equal participation in state
affairs and the right to religious belief.
In 2014, the 550 deputies to the
12th People's Congress of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, the
local legislature, came from 14 ethnic groups, with 66 percent from
ethnic minorities themselves, according to a white paper issued by
the State Council Information Office last Thursday.
In 1955, the number of ethnic
minority officials in Xinjiang was 46,000, which increased to
417,000 in 2014, accounting for 51.4 percent of the total officials
in the region. The incumbent head of the regional government is
Shohrat Zakir, a 62-year-old Uygur man.
Marked improvement has been
observed in Xinjiang's overall strength. Its gross regional product
reached 927 billion yuan (146 billion U.S. dollars)in 2014, a
116-fold increase over that of 1955 in real terms, with an annual
growth rate of 8.3 percent, 0.2 percentage points higher than
China's average during the same period.
Experience has proved that the
combination of centralized national leadership with ethnic regional
autonomy, and the combination of ethnic factors with regional ones
fully accord with the prevailing situation in China and with the
realities and needs of Xinjiang.
Though Xinjiang has developed
rapidly in the past decade, terrorism in the name of "jihad" has
increased since 2009. Terrorism,together with unemployment, are the
biggest threats to the region.
At the second central work
conference on Xinjiang in May 2014, Chinese President Xi Jinping
called for "nets spread from the earth to the sky" to defend
against terrorists, stressing long-term stability as the main goal
for the region.
The infiltration of Islamic
fundamentalism and extremism into Xinjiang, a region with more than
half of its population Muslim, threatens the region's stability and
economic and social development.
South Xinjiang's Hotan, Kashgar and
Aksu are areas overseas separatist forces have penetrated, where
the majority of the population are Muslim Uygur. More Uygur women
have been observed wearing black Islamic robes instead of their
traditional colorful Uygur costumes in recent years.
To fend off religious extremism,
the regional government started a three-year program in March 2014
sending 200,000 cadres from urban government departments, public
institutions and state-owned enterprises to live and work for a
year in 12,000 villages, state farms and communities.
"Young men with little education do
not know much about Islam, nor have they read the Quran," said
Ablajan Abduwakhi, Dean of the Mathematics and Science, Kashgar
University, working in a village in Kashgar prefecture since March
this year."They are easily hoodwinked by extremists."
Cadres from Kashgar University
organized a month of evening classes for villagers, mostly in their
20s and 30s, teaching them about Uygur culture, Islam, government
policy and provided vocational training.
The vocational training, including
embroidery, cooking and masonry, has helped many villagers become
self-employed and move away from religious extremism, said
Ablajan.
"You only receive real respect
through hard work," said Amyna Yason, 45, an embroidery student.
Endi