2015-08~09
http://america.aljazeera.com/articles/2015/9/9/bangkok-blast-suspect-handed-backpack-to-bomber-police-say.html

Bangkok Blast Suspect Handed Backpack to Bomber | Al Jazeera America
The browser or device you are using is out of date. It has known security flaws and a limited feature set. You will not see all the features of some websites. Please update your browser. A list of the most popular browsers can be found below.
The suspected mastermind of Thailand's deadliest bomb attack fled the country on the eve of the blast at the Erawan Shrine last month and others wanted by police are most likely overseas, according to sources with knowledge of the investigation.
Under police interrogation, one of two foreigners in detention admitted to delivering a backpack to the bomber at Bangkok's main railway station on the evening of the Aug. 17 attack, police told reporters.
The suspect told interrogators the backpack “was heavy and it was a bomb,” said Thai police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri. That suspect has been identified by police as Yusufu Mierili. Mierili — whom police have also identified as Yusufu Mieraili — was arrested Sept. 1 at the Thai-Cambodia border. His nationality has not been confirmed but police say he was carrying a Chinese passport. Yusufu is the Chinese pronunciation of the Arabic-language common Muslim name Yusuf.
Police believe the bomber is the yellow-shirted man still at large and caught by surveillance camera placing a backpack at the Hindu shrine moments before the explosion that killed 20 people and wounded 130.
“The suspect insisted he didn't know what was in the bag,” said one of the sources involved in the investigation.
The man being questioned, according to another police source, talked of a lead role played by a man named Izan, who had fled via Bangkok's main airport a day before the attack. He had assigned responsibilities during a meeting of those involved.
“From the testimony we found that Izan is likely to be the mastermind but has already left,” said the police source, without specifying his nationality or destination. “It is likely others we've issued arrest warrants for have already fled.”
The English-language Thai newspaper The Bangkok Post said sources with knowledge of the investigation identified Izan — referred to as “Ishan” by the Post —was a young man from China’s far-western Xinjiang region, home to the embattled, predominantly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority.
Speculation has been rife about the perpetrators and motives. Some say they are sympathizers of Uighur Muslims from China, angered by Thailand's deportation to China in July of 109 members of the Turkic-speaking minority. Others say the perpetrators are from ethnic Malay insurgents or foreign militants to opponents of the government.
Deputy police chief Chakthip Chaijinda told Reuters Mierili had confessed to being part of a network and to being in the area of the bombing. Chakthip did not elaborate, but added police were looking for four more suspects.
Evidence has been limited to grainy security video at the shrine and the seizure of bomb-making materials in raids on two properties in Bangkok.
Wearing a flak jacket, Mierili was made to perform a reconstruction at the two locations before television cameras on Tuesday.
Forensic tests tie the detainees to the explosives, but not the site of the bombing, police say.
Defense Minister Prawit Wongsuwan says bombers intended to discredit the government, harm the economy
Analysis: Deadly attack in Bangkok signals a break in the uneasy calm of military junta’s tight grip on Thailand
Unreported battle over royal succession in the kingdom is a driving force behind the crisis
Sorry, your comment was not saved due to a technical problem. Please try again later or using a different browser.
Yoga used to help kids cope with violence in Chicago