2015-08~09
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3246512/Money-money-money-s-Dalai-Lama-slams-Cameron-kowtowing-China-refusing-meet-him.html

Dalai Lama slams David Cameron for China deals and refusing to meet him | Daily Mail Online

Published:
 12:16 EST, 23 September 2015

 | 
Updated:
 13:50 EST, 23 September 2015


The Dalai Lama has hit out at David Cameron for refusing to meet him - accusing the Prime Minister of putting profit above morality.
Tibet's spiritual leader said the Prime Minister was only interested in 'money, money, money' by striking economic deals with the Chinese government.
Mr Cameron sparked fury in Beijing in 2013 by meeting the Dalai Lama in London. The country's Communist government accuses the exiled Buddhist leader of trying to split Tibet from China.
The Dalai Lama has hit out at David Cameron for refusing to meet him - accusing the Prime Minister of putting profit above morality
After the meeting the Chinese government ordered the Prime Minister to 'stop indulging and supporting 'Tibet independence' and anti-China forces'.
China's foreign ministry said the meeting 'seriously interfered with China's internal affairs' and 'hurt' Chinese feelings.
Mr Cameron has refused to meet with the Dalai Lama following the row.
Now the Tibetan leader has hit out, accusing the Prime Minister of kowtowing to Chinese economic might.
The Dalai Lama's intervention comes as George Osborne tours China on a week-long visit to the country designed to deepen economic ties between Beijing and the UK
Asked by the Spectator magazine, the Dalai Lama said: 'Money, money, money. That's what this is about. Where is morality?'
The Dalai Lama told the magazine that he had no problem with the British public. They 'are a moral people' he said.
The British people are 'greater than the Americans' he said, before adding: 'But what I would say to Mr Cameron and to President Xi is that the Chinese are a great people, they have been so for thousands of years. But they could learn something from the Tibetans, who know there is more to life than material things.'
David Cameron met with the Dalai Lama as leader of the opposition (above) and again in 2013 as PM
The remarks come as George Osborne tours China on a week-long visit to the country designed to deepen economic ties between Beijing and the UK.
The Chancellor the homeland of the mostly-Muslim Uighur minority in the west of the country, where clashes have killed hundreds in recent years.
China blames Islamist separatists for the violence and has imposed tough security measures, including restrictions on religious practice, mass trials and multiple executions.
Its policies have drawn condemnation from rights advocates and Uighurs, who complain of cultural repression and discrimination.
In the regional capital Urumqi, where Tohti was jailed and where ethnic riots in 2009 left around 200 dead, Osborne said Xinjiang had 'enormous potential'.
He also described 'Britain's absolute commitment to support the growth of Urumqi together with the whole of the Xinjiang region'.
But Mr Osborne was slammed for not raising the alleged human rights violations by the Chinese government.
Amnesty International's UK director Kate Allen said failing to raise Tohti's case would 'send the signal that the UK is willing to compromise its human rights values'.
Osborne told the BBC he had raised the issue of human rights in the context of 'economic development, how we help kids from poor areas of China'.
'It is very disappointing that there was no public condemnation of China's repression of Uighurs,' said Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for exile group the World Uyghur Congress.
'Britain cannot acquiesce in China's repression of the Uighur people because of economic interests,' he added in a statement. 

 The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group