2015-08~09
http://news.sky.com/story/1572658/will-golden-carriages-really-start-golden-era

Will Golden Carriages Really Start Golden Era?
We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.
Britain is laying on a lavish welcome to China's President Xi, but does all the pomp come at the expense of human rights concerns?
The Queen's state carriages will be used as part of the welcome parade
China's President Xi and his wife will join the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh for a state carriage procession along the Mall.
Later they will attend a state banquet in their honour at Buckingham Palace. Breathless articles have been written about which tiara the Duchess of Cambridge will wear.
We can expect to hear much over the coming days about a "Golden Decade" - even a "Golden Era" - of UK-China relations, and an accompanying flurry of trade deals.
In fact, as I write this, a press release has just arrived from Downing Street announcing the visit will "unlock more than £30bn of commercial deals".
Britain wants to be China's "best partner in the West", says the chancellor George Osborne, who travelled across China recently, repeating this refrain. We can expect more warm words this week.
Less will be said, at least publicly, on human rights.
China's ambassador to the UK has warned that the president is not here for a debate about human rights. But if he looks carefully from his carriage as he processes through central London today, he might just be able to see some of the protesters holding placards near The Mall. 
Human Rights Watch says Mr Xi's three years in power have seen a "rapid and marked deterioration" in human rights, and a "ferocious crackdown" on human rights activists.
Amnesty International says his government has "ratcheted up censorship of the internet, clamped down on civil society, and launched several large-scale crackdowns on human rights defenders, lawyers and activists".
Protesters will hold banners asking Mr Xi: "Where is Wang Yu?" - a female lawyer arrested at the start of the recent crackdown, whose whereabouts remain unknown.
Her husband, legal activist Bao Longjun, has also been missing since July 9.
An Australian journalist who tried to speak to the couple's son last week says he was stopped by police, despite showing his valid Chinese Foreign Ministry press card, and held for questioning for seven hours at the local public security bureau.
The boy's grandmother managed to tell him they were "being monitored".
Ms Wang had worked as a defence lawyer for Ilham Tohti - a respected academic and Uighur rights activist from China's troubled Xinjiang province, currently serving a life sentence on charges of separatism.
The US Embassy said the former economics professor's arrest had "silenced an important Uighur voice that peacefully promoted harmony". Human Rights Watch called the case a "travesty of justice".
The British Chancellor was actually in Xinjiang last month, as it happened, a year to the day after Mr Tohti was convicted.
Mr Osborne made a brief comment, and said he had raised Mr Tohti's case, but his visit to the region was seen by some as a propaganda coup for the Chinese government.
So what are the chances that any of these names will be mentioned in the champagne toasts at Buckingham Palace tonight?
That China's wannabe new best friend will take the chance to speak some honest home truths?
The British government maintains that it is more productive to raise these issues in private, than to challenge, and risk embarrassing, Chinese officials in public.
By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.