2015-08~09
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/china-business/11937244/Pomp-pageantry-and-pounds-for-Chinas-first-state-visit-in-a-decade.html

Pomp, pageantry and pounds for China's first state visit in a decade - Telegraph
The red carpet will be rolled out next week for China’s first state visit in a decade. Everything from the type of fish served at the palace banquet to President Xi Jinping’s personal supply of bottled water has been planned in exhausting detail.
The UK establishment extends an invitation to just one or two official state visits every year, and the Chinese stay has been proffered with all the available fanfare. Prince William travelled to Beijing in March to personally deliver the request, known as a manu Chinese President Xi Jinping, because it is written in the Queen’s hand.
The last State Visit from China was by President Hu Jintao in 2005 #ChinaStateVisit pic.twitter.com/1F2glwnCCt
The pomp of President Xi’s visit, which has been extended from the usual three-night stay to four in order to fit in a quick trip to Manchester, comes with particularly high expectations. Between the diplomatic dancing and proclamations of a “golden era” of international friendship are billions of pounds-worth of lucrative investments.
Trade relationships between the UK and the world’s second-biggest economy have been growing steadily for the past decade. The Asian country now represents the UK’s sixth-biggest export market, taking 3.6pc of its goods and services. And China, for all the concern about its slowing economic growth and painful adoption of market principles, is coming here to shop.
China and the UK's economic relationship - in 90 seconds
Hinkley Point C, one of the jewels of the trip, has been in the pipeline for several years and, if agreed in time, would be the first occasion China has invested in European nuclear power. Left in the lurch in 2013 when Centrica pulled out, the £24.5bn project run by EDF will now be part-funded by China National Nuclear Corporation and the China General Nuclear Power Group.
The paperwork involved in getting the deal over the line now stretches to 70,000 pages, owing to the web of subsidies, subcontractors and security considerations required to make the project work. Without it, the UK’s much-needed replacement for ageing coal-fired power plants would be once again in jeopardy.
The new power station is just one infrastructure project that the Government hopes to get off the ground with Chinese support. When the Chancellor George Osborne visited the Chinese provinces of Xinjiang and Chengdu last month, the UK trade delegation handed out a “pitchbook” catalogue of £24bn-worth of British projects seeking foreign investors.
Projects for sale include a £200m orbital road in Leeds, a £325m slice of Alderley science park in Cheshire, and a £400m gas storage site. High Speed 2, the planned railway between London and the North, was also offered, despite not yet having the green light from Parliament.
George Osborne came under fire for skirting human rights issues during a recent trip to China  Photo: PA
“China and the UK should take high-speed rail and nuclear power plant projects as starting points to promote bilateral investment,” China’s assistant commerce minister Zhang Ji said last week, ahead of the state visit that begins on Tuesday.
China has said it is prepared to invest an additional £105bn in British infrastructure by 2025, targeting property, transport and energy. Some of this enormous spending drive could come from Chinese corporates’ increasing taste for takeovers, having spent $62.2bn on buying overseas companies in the first nine months of the year, according to Dealogic data.
Beijing’s hopes of the renminbi becoming a world currency could also receive a fillip during the trip as a new yuan-denominated sovereign bond issue is unveiled in London, a year after the City tested the waters by hosting the UK government’s first yuan bond sale last year. This would be the first time China has issued renminbi debt beyond its own shores. The City of London is hosting a banquet in Xi’s honour during his trip.
“We are seeing the internationalisation of Chinese renminbi growing at a pretty brisk pace here. There is a lot further to go and that’s due to what I view as the end of US dominance,” Richard Holmes, head of Europe a Chinese President Xi Jinping t Standard Chartered, said this week.
“For both sides this trip will be a big deal, although more for Chinese investment in the UK rather than the other way around,” said Michal Meidan, an associate fellow in the Asia programme at Chatham House.
“The financial trade ties will take longer to make an economic impact on the UK [than the investments] but symbolically it’s very important.
“The trip also gives President Xi a chance to talk about One Belt One Road, which is still quite a nebulous concept but it’s a major Chinese project that the UK has been implicitly endorsing.” Also known as the New Silk Road, the One Belt One Road spending splurge has already seen new airports, high-speed rail and towns constructed as part of a bridgehead from Western China to Eastern Europe.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne visited an industrial area in the city of Urumqi in north west China  Photo: PA
Osborne praised the plans during last month’s visit, leading the local press to describe him as “the first Western official in recent years who focused on business potential rather than raising a magnifying glass to the 'human rights issue’”.
China’s massive investment drive is designed to impress at home and abroad, while helping to pivot the economy from a factory-based producer into a consumer spending giant and a global investor.
This huge undertaking has endured several setbacks, including an economic growth rate that has waned from double digits to less than 7pc, and an alarming plummet in the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock markets as highly-leveraged retail investors lost faith in the state-supported bull run.
China’s middle classes are now larger than the same cohort in the United States, according to a recent Credit Suisse report, but recent warnings from KFC and Burberry have highlighted the fragility of this new wave of consumer spending.
With the Communist Party’s next five-year plan to be set out later this month, President Xi is keen to emphasise his place on the world stage.
“Slower growth, industrial reform, and an increasing emphasis on improving the quality of life, such as preventing the choking levels of smog in some cities or improved social security, are all on the cards,” said Miranda Carr of Haitong Securities.
“This will cement a lot of the change that has already been seen in China since the new administration arrived three years ago and put much greater emphasis on the service and 'value-added’ sectors of the economy.”
Harmony bullet trains at a high-speed train maintenance base in Wuhan, Hubei province  Photo: Reuters
A survey for the advertising organisation WPP last year found that Chinese residents are keenly aware of their nation’s place on the world stage. Around 70pc thought it was important to achieve the Chinese Dream – a concept that, for them, meant turning the country into a powerful global force in which their families can live a good life.
This compares to the 65pc of Americans who say fulfilling the American Dream is important, and 39pc of Britons who concern themselves with the British Dream. Just 9pc of Britons and 8pc of Americans said being a powerful nation was core to that national dream.
Footage of President Xi and his wife Peng Liyuan dining at Buckingham Palace and Man City’s Etihad stadium should, therefore, play well at home. Prince Charles is not attending the banquet, amid reports of his unease at the plight of Tibet, although the courtesies of the diplomatic dance will instead bring him together with Xi for tea at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel.
The last time a Chinese leader was invited to Buckingham Palace in 2005, protesters lined the Mall to campaign for an end to China’s occupation of Tibet. This time, protests in honour of the region, as well as the suppressed Uyghur ethnic minority and human rights campaigners, are expected.
Xi hosting a meeting on women's rights at the UN while persecuting feminists? Shameless. #Freethe20 http://t.co/hRkaaAnMMp -H
Analysts have said the din around these problems will be less sharp than the questions facing Xi when he toured the United States last month. However the controversy about China’s human rights and cybersecurity track records did not stop Xi from meeting with the chief executives of the biggest US technology firms, including Mark Zuckerberg, whose social network Facebook is banned in China.
Xi’s first official visit to the UK comes with similarly high stakes and has already begun on a more cordial note, with both sides describing it as a “golden era”, a “golden age” and even a “golden decade”.
The UK was one of the first supporters of the Asian Infrastructure Development Bank this year, as the US shied away. This accommodating stance brings with it the chance to kick-start some of Britain’s long-awaited infrastructure projects.

In pics: Some fledgling firms have reached valuations in the tens of billions. 
 These are the 20 priciest of them all


There are over 87,000 different drink combinations at Starbucks, according to 
 the coffee retailer’s website. How many of them do you know? From flu 
 remedies to Harry Potter-inspired beverages, we highlight the weird and the 
 wonderful brews and infusions. 


From 'scary cult movies from the 1980s' to 'coming-of-age animal tales', 
 Netflix has every niche covered. 


Forbes's annual index assess countries by a range of factors from taxes and 
 technology to red tape and innovation. These are the top 20 countries for 
 doing business


From a rare pair of Gucci shoes, to spending £110,000 releasing an album, 
 Britain's wealthiest are pulling out all the stops 


Briefing: Predictions saw a huge shift this week. We explain why - and 
 what it means for mortgages and savings 


New data: Discover the priciest cities around the globe for luxury property. 


Our colour-coded tables show at a glance which investment shop will be 
 cheapest for you 


The Big Short, the film adaptation of Michael Lewis' book of the same name 
 about the causes of the financial crisis, opens in UK cinemas this weekend. 
 How will the story stack up against the greatest films about business? 
