2015-08~09
http://www.silkroadreporters.com/2015/08/23/caspian_connection/

The Caspian Connection | Silk Road Reporters
On 3 August, the trans-Caspian rail route from Baku to the port-city of Alyat was launched. This is a next step in the integration of the east-west route from China through Kazakhstan, the Caucasus and to Turkey and the European Union. The route that travels by rail from Shikhezi in northern Xinjiang, China, then to Dostyk in Eastern Kazakhstan across the whole of Kazakhstan to the port city of Aktau. From there it travels by container ship to Alyat, Azerbaijan and from there to Baku’s Kishly district via the newly built rail.
The receiving of the inaugural shipment was met by Azerbaijani Deputy Prime Minister Abid Sharifov and Vice Minister of Transport Arif Askerov, Kazakhstan Temir Zholy President Askar Mamin, Azerbaijan Railway Chairman Dzhavid Gurbanov and Georgian Railways chief Mamuka Bakhtadze. The attendance of these officials signaled the import of the event. The route can be seen as an output of both the Chinese China’s New Silk Road Program as well as Kazakhstan’s Nurly Zhol Economic Diversification plan.   With over 3,500 km covered in the route, the five day journey from China to Baku may link Azerbaijan into the supply chains as China continues to search for raw materials.
These linkages are expected to continue to Georgia and Turkey. President of Kazakhstan Temir Zholy Askar Mamin stated that “the Kars–Akhalkalaki route into operation will give impulse to the development of cargo carriage and become a very important part of the trans-Caspian route”. Continuing on that “We plan to organise a container train from China to Istanbul through Azerbaijan and Georgia before the end of this year. As of today, major corporations with plants in China and Southeast Asia monitor our cooperation and are very interested in transportation of their goods using the route”. The development of this rail project is the first example of Kazakh-produced GE TE33А fifth generation locomotive, being deployed by financing and leasing highlighted in the Nurly Zhol. Minister Mamin finished his remarks by stating that “We concluded contracts to the amount of $350 million”.
As highlighted before by your analyst, intraregional trade is quite restricted between even the most advanced post-Soviet states. This is especially true in Central Asia, where many of the states are even double-landlocked.  A reinvigoration of a Caspian focused strategy, if successful, would help Kazakhstan bring development to one of its poorer regions. A western Kazakhstani region experienced poverty-driven restiveness in late 2011, so the deployment of capital may stymie any further outbursts.
Azerbaijan, may benefit from the increase in transportation if its oligarchic trade system does not create insurmountable hurdles. Its economy, where oil fields are gradually being played out needs a new driver of growth. While many look to the day that the natural gas export pipelines to Turkey, Greece, Albania, and Italy come online, additional diversification is needed to assure that sluggish growth is not overtaken by population growth or eaten away by corruption. Outsourcing lower-level manufacturing from Turkey to the newly developed transportation hubs in Georgia and Azerbaijan may be a way forward for these states.  Until foreign capital sees an improvement in the way these states do business, they will continue to lag behind their potential, even as the Caspian is connected.
Subscribe to our news and get the latest information from Silk Road Reporters
Subscribe to our news and get the latest information from Silk Road Reporters