2015-08~09
http://www.globalconstructionreview.com/news/chinese-cash-will-fuel-uk-property-schemes-worth-1/

GCR - News - Chinese cash will fuel UK property schemes worth $1.8bn
China’s Hualing Industry and Trade Group will inject an undisclosed sum to support major projects in Manchester, Leeds and Sheffield initiated by UK property company, Scarborough Group.
Hualing made the announcement as the UK chancellor visited its offices in Xinjiang as part of his tour to boost China-UK trade.
With a combined gross value of nearly $1.8bn, the three projects are expected to create 18,000 jobs and deliver 10,000 new homes.
Scarborough Group chairman Kevin McCabe said his company had done business in China for 13 years, but that the tie-up with Hualing was new.
“As a family business with its roots in the North of England, we are now very proud to bring our partners in China to the UK to invest in our great Northern Cities and to accelerate the development of our major projects in Manchester, Leeds and Sheffield,” he said.
“Our partnership with the Hualing Group is a new and exciting one for Scarborough and we look forward to working with them over the coming years to bring our Northern projects to fruition.”
Today George Osborne became the first serving British government minister to visit Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang autonomous region.
He used the visit to say he wanted to make China the UK’s second largest trading partner by 2025 as part of the government’s efforts to increase UK exports to £1 trillion a year and to get 100,000 more UK companies exporting.
China is currently the UK’s sixth largest trading partner, with British exports to the China totalling $38bn (£25bn) in 2013. The top recipient of British exports is the US, to which the UK exported just over $138bn (£90bn) worth of goods and services in 2013, according to official statistics.
Photograph: A 2006 aerial masterplan render of one of the schemes, Middlewood Locks in Manchester, by Cowdy Urban Design
Lets hope the Chinese bring their Fast Track building process and shake the Building Federation up a lot
CIMIC to deliver second stage of Gold Coast light rail project
Dutch bank suspends Honduran hydro scheme after second activist murdered