2015-08~09
http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireStory/latest-21-gun-salute-white-house-chinese-leader-34033940

2016 Presidential Candidates & Election News - ABC News


Even though Donald Trump has previously cited himself as his top adviser on foreign policy issues, he has now released a list of some other experts that he leans on. The Republican presidential front-runner said during a "Morning Joe" interview last week that he consults with himself on foreign policy issues "because I have a very good brain," but on Monday he released the names of other members of the team. During a meeting with The Washington Post editorial board, Trump reportedly shared the names of five of his go-to experts.




Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump referred to Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren as “the Indian” at a news conference on Monday just hours after she unleashed a Twitter tirade against him. “Who is that, the Indian? You mean the Indian?” Trump asked, referring to Warren, who has said she has Native American ancestry. Warren’s contention became a point of controversy during her 2012 U.S. Senate race when her Republican opponent, former Massachusetts Sen. Scott Brown, who demanded proof. Warren has repeatedly defended her statements. The Republican frontrunner was asked by reporters about the Democratic senator’s attacks during the event at the Trump International Hotel in Washington D.C.



The thing about the plan is, there is no plan. More than halfway through the voting, with Donald Trump far and away the delegate leaders - and therefore the GOP frontrunner, and it's not even close - the anyone-but-Trump forces are as scattered and uncertain as ever. There's no consensus alternative, not with Ted Cruz and John Kasich both still running (and both touting support they got from the party's most recent nominee, inside the last week). There's no consensus on the third-party route – neither on whether to do it nor whom to do it with. There's no firm sense that any of the tens of millions in anti-Trump spending has had its desired effect, or that future spending can hope to be successful, either. So it is that as Trump comes to Washington Monday to court the establishment, the establishment (such as it is) can agree on only one, longshot-in-itself, goal for stopping Trump: denying him a majority of convention delegates. Even that is undercut by the growing list of elected officials and party regulars boarding the Trump train. Trump's been advising the GOP to embrace, rather than fight, the energy he's brought to the party. That advice will sound more tempting the closer Trump gets to his magic number.



By moving forward with a bold new policy toward Cuba, President Obama is calculating that his successors will not want to -- or be able to -- move back. In traveling to Havana, Obama is making good on promises both specific and broad. The images -- Air Force One wowing Cuban civilians, the president and his family shopping, and of course a meeting with Cuban President Raul Castro himself -- serve as stark points of contrast to an American public that’s grown used to, if not fatigued by, a chilly relationship with a nation so close to its own border. The president is practically daring the candidates who want his job to turn back the clock.




Mitt Romney took his willingness to support Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz one step further by recording robocalls for the Texas senator. In the calls, first reported by The Daily Caller, Romney encourages voters in Arizona and Utah to support Cruz. A call targeting Arizona voters was released today and another call will begin ringing in Utah homes tomorrow. Both Utah and Arizona will hold nominating contests tomorrow. “I’m calling to ask you to join me in supporting Ted Cruz for president this Tuesday in the Utah Republican caucuses. This is the time for Republicans across the spectrum to unite behind Ted,” Romney says in the call targeting Utah voters. "And at this point, a vote for John Kasichis a vote for Donald Trump.”




Republican presidential hopeful John Kasich told the nation's most powerful pro-Israel lobbying group on Monday that the United States "cannot be neutral in defending our allies,” a clear jab at his rival Donald Trump, who recently said he would be “neutral" in dealing with the Israel-Palestinian conflict. Kasich has over the past two weeks become more outspoken against Trump, who made the remarks about Israel last month, although he rushed through the line about neutrality to little applause. The third remaining Republican presidential candidate, Sen. Ted Cruz, has pounced on Trump's remark, and Hillary Clinton, who is running for president on the Democratic side, criticized the comment in her remarks before the American Israel Public Affairs Committee conference today. "We need steady hands, not a president who says he's neutral on Monday, pro-Israel on Tuesday, and who knows what on Wednesday because everything's negotiable," she said.

