2015-08~09
http://nation.com.pk/national/03-Sep-2015/almost-all-chinese-militants-in-pakistan-eliminated-mamnoon

‘Almost all’ Chinese militants in Pakistan eliminated: Mamnoon
BEIJING: Pakistan has eliminated ‘almost all’ militants from China’s Uighur ethnic minority on its territory, the country’s president said Wednesday, as China conducts a crackdown within its own borders. President Mamnoon Hussain told his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping that recent anti-terror operations struck against members of the East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), AFP, a foreign news agency reported.
The group – whose existence in a significant form is widely disputed by experts – is said to support creating an independent state in China’s Xinjiang region, which has a border with Pakistan.
Xinjiang – the homeland of China’s 10 million Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking, mostly Muslim minority – is sporadically hit by deadly violence.An operation against “extremist and terrorism” had been “successful in eradicating the terrorism from our country”, Hussain told Xi at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.
“It has also been very helpful in eliminating the ETIM element from our country and I think almost all the ETIM people in our country have been eliminated. Maybe, if they are there, there should be very few.”
China regularly accuses what it says are exiled Uighur separatist groups such as ETIM of being behind attacks in Xinjiang, which has seen a wave of unrest. Chinese authorities have also accused scores of Uighurs who have fled the country of attempting to train with extremists in Syria and eventually return to Xinjiang to wage jihad.
But many experts doubt the existence of ETIM, pointing out that although China frequently blames the group for radicalising Uighurs, it has yet to provide any evidence that outside organisations were involved in attacks.
According to Associated Press of Pakistan, Chinese President Xi Jinping reiterated his country’s resolve to fortifying friendship between the two states and helping Pakistan on all international and regional issues.
“China values its deep-rooted friendship with Pakistan and considers it a high priority in its foreign policy,” Prime Minister’s Special Assistant Tariq Fatemi said following the meeting of the two leaders that took place at the China’s Great Hall of People.President Mamnoon who arrived in Beijing on Tuesday to attend the China’s 70th anniversary of end of World War II, met President Xi Jinping and discussed ways to further enhance bilateral ties.
Fatemi said the Chinese president mentioned about the level of excellent and strong relations between Pakistan and China and also termed it an example for other countries.
He said both leaders stressed the need to materialize the joint vision of Pakistan and China for prosperity in the region.“The two presidents agreed that Pakistan and China’s shared destiny will not only benefit the two countries, but also the whole region,” Fatemi said.President Xi assured resident Mamnoon that he had the firm resolve that the Chinese government and companies would keep their maximum focus on the ongoing projects in Pakistan and would ensure their timely completion. The Pakistan president said the Sino-Pak friendship enjoyed across-the-board political, institutional and popular support in both countries. Mamnoon described Pakistan and China as ‘iron brothers.’
He said Pakistani nation was eagerly waiting for completion of the projects related to CPEC including upgrade of the Karakorum Highway, Gwadar airport and establishment of industrial parks alongside the Corridor.The President recalled the visit of President Xi to Pakistan in April that concluded with signing of 51 agreements worth $ 46 billion investment in energy and infrastructure sectors.
He said, the phrase of “iron brother” for Pakistan as coined by President Xi truly matches with the traditional Chinese metaphor of the closest friend.Mamnoon said President Xi’s vision of “Silk Road Economic Belt” was also relevant with the geographical and political location of Pakistan.He reiterated Pakistan’s resolve to have peaceful relations with its neighbours including India and apprised the Chinese President that Pakistan had always been willing to hold dialogue with India for resolution of all outstanding issues.
He said Pakistan valued China’s efforts in promoting intra-Afghan dialogue for sustainable peace in Afghanistan.
Mamnon also attended a luncheon jointly hosted by China International Culture Communication Centre (CICCC) and China-Pakistan Friendship Association (CPFA). Speaking on the occasion, he said Pakistan was committed to ensuring continuity in Pakistan-China friendship from generation to generation.“Pakistan and China would remain “eternal and irreplaceable” friends as their friendship was playing a pivotal role in pursuing the common objectives of peace and development in the region.
Mamnoon said regional economic integration, connectivity and infrastructure development was the collective vision of Pakistan and China.He said Pakistan, being located at the southern end of the Silk Road Economic Belt, had a geographical and political relevance with this vision.He said China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) will not only prove helpful in regional connectivity and prosperity, but also promote development in the region.
Mamnoon urged the Chinese companies to explore the Pakistani markets and invest in mutually beneficial and profitable areas including manufacturing, energy, infrastructure, textiles and agriculture sectors.He mentioned that Pakistani forces had struck major blows to terrorists through the Operation Zarb-e-Azb, which he said would continue till the elimination of terrorism from the Pakistani soil.
Sha Zukang, President CPFA emphasized the importance of Sino-Pak relations and said 100 Chinese entrepreneurs would visit Pakistan this year to further consolidate business and trade relations. Later, a colourful cultural programme was presented with a variety of traditional music and dances. The event was attended by Prime Minister’s Special Assistant Tariq Fatemi, Ambassador to China Masood Khalid, and Chinese academics, corporate leaders, intellectuals and representative of think-tanks.
NIPCO House, 4 Shaarey Fatima Jinnah, LAHORE (Pakistan) Tel : 092-42-6367580Fax : 092-42-6367005