2015-08~09
http://www.dawn.com/news/1201240/pak-china-to-cooperate-in-space-as-part-of-karamay-declaration

Pakistan, China to cooperate in space as part of Karamay declaration - Pakistan - DAWN.COM
PESHAWAR: The Chinese government has agreed to a proposal by the Federal Minister for Planning and Development Ahsan Iqbal, initiating the collaboration between Pakistan and China in space technology as part of the Karamay declaration under China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).
At the Pakistan-China forum meeting held in Karamay-Xinjiang last week, Ahsan Iqbal, proposed space technology collaboration between China and Pakistan, an official of the forum told APP.
His proposal was approved and made a part of the Karamay-Xinjiang Declaration. The declaration was later approved unanimously after the two-day meeting.
At the concluding session, Ahsan Iqbal said that bilateral collaboration on space technology would take Pakistan-China relations to new heights. He stressed upon a joint launch of space missions which would consist of astronauts from both countries.
He said “CPEC will increase connectivity between the two friendly countries. It will shape up the future destiny of both the nations through communication linkages”.
Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan, Sun Weidong, was also a part of the CPEC forum. He labelled the meetings as successful in increasing understanding among the related stakeholders for implementing CPEC. He also pointed out the field of energy and communication as a major part of the CPEC.
Over 300 officials, businesspersons and public figures were a part of the two-day forum.
Another decision made at the forum was to make these meetings a permanent platform that will meet every year to examine the project and present collaboration on broader aspects. The forum will also be used to ensure the project's true objective of promoting Pakistan-China relations.
destiny of self reliance!
Those who do not wish to join us can choose their own destiny
I am sure those that are being discussed here know it’s about them
Good bilateral collaboration in this area as well as CPEC and good indeed for all in the region.
Now Modi will go to some deserted island and will do some shining India agreements, talk about Pakistan and polish his two cents democratic skills...
Another milestone to achieve soon. Go Pak Go. It is time to beat everyone in every field and shine in the world of nations. Pakistan is great.
o what a great news and at the right time. Sounds like a resounding slap on those that were talking ugly about Pakistan. a very big thanks to our best friend forever China.
Pakistan's good move now hope can bring foreign exchange by launching sate likes from US,UK etc just like ISRO.Catchup needed to reach indian satellite org.
There is no field in which any country can enter and stay ahead of Pakistan. Pakistan is already talking joint astronauts in space in jointly made satellites. Pakistan is up and away.
Those who want to join us, can't. The doors are open for friends only. Those people should know who they are and don't bother to apply.
i am also waiting for pak to go up in the space
why did Pakistan agree to use SAARC satellite then ?
Good start. Hopefully, this will lead to something productive. Just paper agreement ain't enough.
Pakistan east neighbor India & west neighbor Iran have indigenous technology to launch satellite. I can bet after the successful ISRO human spaceflight mission 2017+ India will help SAARC members astronaut to reach space in which Pakistan can benefit with having good relationship with SAARC member nation from now onwards or from modi visit to Pakistan in 2016 SAARC summit .
So all the hard work will be done by china and then the pakistani will just walk in and sit in the shuttle and will call it "Joint space colloboration". The money a salman khan movie makes in a day is more than the total budget allocated to pakistan space organization in a year.
Good. Now these scientistist should develop technology to give polio drops from space. Also aliens should be invited to play cricket. Inter space cricket. Only by Pakistan and China. I always tell my friends that pakistan and china has a great potential. Good going. Keep that up. High up.
Pakistan friends who comparing space power of India can watch out indian first space shuttle ( RLV- TD) ready to launch in coming October this year. Such space plane are dream for other Asian space power - Japan & China.
You got nuclear weapons technology from other country. Now you can get space ship from other country. What's big deal. I am seeing lot of Indian resturants run by Pakistani in the west as they don't want to use the name of Pakistan
What exactly will be Pakistan's contribution in this "collaboration"? Money? Technical skill? Space craft manufacturing facility? Astronaut training? Supply of tissue paper?. The Chinese can surely accommodate a Pakistani in one of their manned launch. But for all practical purpose they might as well send up a monkey. What is the Pakistan's achievement in space technology that it is in a position to offer support?
I doubt China will move forward with CPEC. The recent Chinese support for India's UNSC seat tells different story.
This is great! Such collaboration will help develop Pakistan's technical capabilities and industries... all the best from an Indian!
Seems like there are still buyers in the world for Chinese technology :-)
Pakistan lives in a dreamworld. Nothing is going to happen. It is all for public deception.
What happened to those great discoveries of gold, diamonds, oil and everything else near Chiniot?
In the same way, public is being be-fooled about development corridor with China's help. Nothing is true, believe me.

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
