2015-08~09
http://news.asiaone.com/news/asia/no-usual-suspects-thai-blasts-defy-easy-explanation

No usual suspects in Thai blasts that defy easy explanation, AsiaOne Asia News
Experts investigate at the site of a blast in central Bangkok August 17, 2015.

BANGKOK - Thailand's conflict-wracked society is inured to violence, but the scale and ruthless targeting of Monday's Bangkok bombing has no historical precedent and analysts say it is far from the usual modus operandi of the nation's armed agitators.





 

Opaque armed elements often try to press home an advantage by stoking insecurity in a nation that has hosted endless - and often well-rehearsed - rounds of protest and coups, as well as a festering Muslim insurgency.
But Monday evening's bomb which left at least 20 dead, the majority foreigners, at the packed Erawan shrine in the commercial core of the city has confounded many observers.
Mass casualty bomb attacks on this scale are simply unprecedented in the Thai capital.
And until Monday, foreigners had rarely been caught up in the country's cycle of bloodshed.
Eleven of the dead were foreigners from China, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore.
A manhunt was underway Tuesday for the prime suspect - a young man in a yellow t-shirt caught on CCTV leaving a backpack at the crime scene just moments before the explosion.
Links to two primary groups are being explored: Muslim rebels from the country's insurgency-wracked deep south and hardliners on all sides of the political spectrum.
"But what's so strange about this attack is it fits no-one's MO (modus operandi), neither Muslim insurgents nor anti-military groups," Zachary Abuza, an expert on Thailand's southern insurgency told AFP.
"In reality I don't think you can write anyone off yet," he added.
Neither group has shown an appetite for such large-scale violence, although Malay Muslim rebels in the south frequently plant IEDs and car bombs that have claimed several lives at a time and bring havoc to town centres.
Two prime suspects in the Erawan Shrine bomb attack that killed 20 and injured more than 100 people re-enacted the crime at 19 key spots in Bangkok.
Adem Karadag, or Bilal Muhammed, who was the first suspect arrested in connection with the August 17 attack in an apartment in Min Buri
and Mieraili Yusufu, the second suspect arrested at the beginning of this month near the Cambodia border at Sa Kaew's Aranyaprathet district,
were taken to re-enact the crime at key spots where they confessed to committing the crime
Adem's confession was in line with Mieraili's confession and Adem's statements also implicated others in the bombing gang.
Adem started the re-enactment outside the Grand Hyatt Erawan Hotel where he allegedly got off a tuk-tuk; the second spot was at the Erawan Shrine where Adem placed a bag containing the bomb.
Mieraili was brought to Rama I Road, opposite the Erawan Shrine.
National police chief General Somyot Poompanmuang said the suspects had confessed because they were confronted with evidence.
He said the motive for the bombing was the crackdown on human trafficking, which put an end to the illegal business.
The suspects were part of the human-trafficking ring and might have been hired by an ill-intentioned group to commit the crime.
A foreign man described as a "main suspect" in the deadly Bangkok bombing was arrested, with Thai police calling him an important figure in the network that staged the attack.
The man detained near the border with Cambodia is the second foreigner held over the blast at a religious shrine in central Bangkok which killed 20 people, mostly ethnic Chinese tourists.
Police also said arrest warrants have been issued for three fresh suspects still at large, two of whom have names which appear foreign.
A picture of an unnamed foreign man wanted for questioning after bomb making materials were found in a Bangkok apartment he allegedly rented
A picture of Wanna Suansan, 26, wanted for questioning after bomb making materials were found in a Bangkok apartment she allegedly rented
Nuts and bolts found during a search of a property in the Min Buri distric
Items found during a search of a property in the Min Buri distric
Police probing Thailand's deadliest bombing widened their net in the search for more suspects
after a foreigner was arrested and stacks of fake passports and bomb-making materials were found during a raid on a Bangkok apartment block.
The 28-year-old man, who has been in Thailand since January 2014, was detained on charges of possessing illegal explosives.
Police and residents in Bangkok's Nong Chok district said the suspect rented four apartments on the same floor of the rundown building.
The detained man was reclusive but always appeared focused and walked with intent on his rare forays outside.
Police arrested a foreign man on Saturday they said fitted the description of a suspect seen leaving a rucksack at the site of the Bangkok blast nearly two weeks ago.
Police raided an apartment in a northern suburb of the capital on Saturday afternoon and discovered possible bomb-making materials that could have been used in the Aug. 17 attack in Bangkok's bustling commercial heart.
Police say the suspect is ‘unlikely’ international terrorist, but spurred by ‘personal feud’.
Thai monks led prayers Wednesday for the reopening of Bangkok shrine where a blast killed 20 people, as police hunted a man shown on security footage calmly planting what is believed to be the bomb.
The bomb struck early on Monday evening as worshippers and tourists crowded into the Erawan shrine in the Thai capital's commercial heart, but no-one has yet claimed responsibility.
The unprecedented attack on the Thai capital left at least 11 foreigners dead, with Chinese, Hong Kong, Singaporean, Indonesian and a family from Malaysia among the victims.
More than 100 other people were wounded by a blast that shredded bodies and incinerated motorcycles at one of the city's busiest intersections.
Police said a second explosion at a Bangkok pier on Tuesday that caused no injuries may be linked, deepening fears for Bangkok residents with police conceding they do not know who was responsible.
Around a dozen Buddhist monks led prayers at the Erawan shrine as it re-opened early Wednesday while devotees - including tourists - genuflected and held joss sticks, and AFP reporter said.
A relative of the dead Malaysians had laid bundles of clothes at the shrine to represent the lost loved ones, according to a monk.
The shrine - a popular tourist attraction that typifies the kingdom's unusual blend of Hindu and Buddhist traditions - and its surrounding had already been largely restored.
Twisted iron railings were the only immediate sign of the carnage, which police believe was caused by a bomb made up of three kilogrammes of explosives and ball bearings.
One devotee had more reason than most to give thanks.
Tommy Goh, 56, a Thai-Malaysian from Penang, said only a delayed taxi from his hotel spared him from being at the shrine around the time of the blast.
"Every year I come down to this shrine, we were meant to be here around 6.50-7pm but the taxi didn't arrive from the hotel... so we went somewhere else," he told AFP.
"Ten minutes later and it could have been so different." Police released images Tuesday showing a man, apparently young, slightly built and wearing a yellow T-shirt and dark shorts, walking into the shrine with a backpack.
In the video he calmly places the backpack underneath a bench and then walks away clutching a blue plastic bag and what looks like a smartphone.
The bomb exploded several minutes later, leading Thailand police to make the man their prime suspect.
A small explosion on Tuesday by a bridge at the city's Chaopraya river has been tied to Monday's bomb.
Colonel Kamthorn Ouicharoen, of Thai bomb squad police confirmed the bridge bomb was same type as that detonated at the Erawan Shrine "It's exactly the same, the equipment used to make it, the bomb size," he said.
Thailand has experienced a near-decade long political crisis that has seen endless rounds of street violence.
A festering insurgency by Muslim rebels in the Thai south has claimed 6,400 victims, but is a highly localised conflict.
A small explosive was thrown from a bridge over the Chao Phraya River in central Bangkok on Tuesday, but no injuries were reported.
The unidentified man threw the explosive near the busy Sathorn Pier on the city’s Chao Phraya River and it landed in a canal.
The incident came a day after a fatal bomb blast at a city shrine.
CCTV footage shows people scattering as they cross the bridge.
The man was filmed on CCTV near the Erewan shrine.
He was first wearing a backpack, and later appeared without it.
The bomb was reportedly planted inside the Erawan shrine, which is situated just at the corner of the Ratchaprasong intersection and in front of the Grand Hyatt Erawan Bangkok hotel, an area that many tourists would be familiar with.
A Singaporean woman was killed in the bomb blast that rocked Bangkok's Ratchaprasong area on Monday night, reported local media.
According to a statement released by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, some Singaporeans were injured in the incident.

MFA said its embassy staff are providing consular assistance to affected Singaporeans.
Dozens of tourists were injured in the bombing, which appeared to have been targeted at foreigners.
MFA urged Singaporeans in Bangkok to take necessary safety precautions, avoid the vicinity of the explosion and to monitor the local news closely
A video has emerged online of a Chinese tourist's first-hand experience of the bomb that exploded at one of Bangkok's most popular shrines on Monday.
Posted on Shanghaiist's Facebook page, the video initially shows a regular scene of pedestrians walking on the sky bridge.
Then, at the 25th second, there is a sudden loud explosion that rocks the place and balls of fire could be seen.
Screams could be heard in the background and scenes of panic could be seen from the footage.
The male tourist shooting the video could be heard speaking in Mandarin, asking: "What's the situation?"
The bomb was detonated at about 7pm (8pm, Singapore time) in the middle of the city's rush hour, sending a fireball into the sky as commuters and tourists fled in panic.
The bomb was reportedly planted inside the Erawan shrine, which is situated just at the corner of the Ratchaprasong intersection and in front of the Grand Hyatt Erawan Bangkok hotel, an area that many tourists would be familiar with.
The Erawan is an enormously popular shrine to the Hindu god Brahma but is visited by thousands of Buddhist devotees every day.
It is a major attraction for tourists from East Asia, especially China. Built in 1956, it is one of the Thai capital's top tourist attractions.
National police chief Somyot Poompanmuang told reporters the attack was unprecedented in Thailand.
A bomb on a motorcycle exploded on Monday just outside a Hindu shrine in the centre of the Thai capital, killing at least 12 people, police and a rescue worker said.
The blast was near the Erawan shrine at a major Bangkok intersection, police said.
"All I can say now is there has been an explosion in central Bangkok involving a motorcycle bomb," deputy national police chief Aek Angsananond told Reuters.
He said there had been fatalities, but could not confirm details.
A policeman at the scene and a rescue worker said 12 people had been killed.
A Reuters witness at the scene said she saw pieces of human flesh near the blast site, and a soldier later told onlookers to move back, saying they were checking for a second bomb.
Thai forces are fighting a low-level Muslim insurgency in the predominantly Buddhist country's south, although those rebels have rarely launched attacks outside their ethnic Malay heartland.
The country has also been riven for a decade by intense and sometimes violent rivalry between political factions in Bangkok and elsewhere.
The army has ruled Thailand since May 2014, when it ousted an elected government after months of, at times, violent anti-government protests.
The Erawan shrine, on a busy corner near top hotels, shopping centres and offices, is a major tourist attraction, especially for visitors from East Asia.
This file photo taken on September 9, 1999 shows tourists paying homage to the Erawan Shrine in central Bangkok.
Thai police have said the bomb was made of 5kg of TNT explosive.
A source said the bomb was hidden under a roadside bench in front of the Erawan shrine.
The explosion had a radius of 40 metres, the source added.
Nation TV reported that the death toll rose to 15.
The Red Cross Society issued an urgent plea for the people to donate blood Tuesday as a lot of blood supplies are needed for the victims of the explosion.
Insurgents are fighting for greater autonomy in the country's three Muslim-majority states bordering Malaysia annexed by Thailand a century ago.
More than 6,400 people - mostly civilians - have died in the last decade of conflict there.
Army chief Udomdej Sitabutr also told Channel 3 television however that it was "not likely" the attack was carried out by southern insurgents because the explosives used did not match their tactics.
Equally, militants among the "Red Shirt" supporters of the toppled former government have favoured streetside gunfights or drive-by shootings of political rivals.
In the worst bloodshed since their emergence, more than 90 people were killed and hundreds wounded during a 2010 crackdown by security forces on a Red Shirt rally in central Bangkok.
They are one side of Thailand's caustic political divide that broadly pits rural and working-class voters loyal to the Shinawatra family against a Bangkok-based middle class and royalist elite, backed by parts of the military and judiciary.
Pipe bombs and grenades are also favoured among both side of the political divide - but never a blast calculated to cause so much carnage.
Thai politics expert Pavin Chachavalpongpun said the Red Shirts were also unlikely to attack a religious shrine in the Buddhist-majority country where superstition and the concept of karma are deeply enmeshed in the psyche.
"Judging from the scale of this assault, I think it is unlikely that the attack was fuelled by Thai domestic politics," he said.
Some have speculated that the targeting of the Erawan shrine, which is hugely popular among Chinese tourists, may have been an attempt to hit back at Beijing after Thailand last month forcibly repatriated more than 100 Uighur refugees.
That incident, which comes amid a warming of ties between Bangkok's authoritarian regime and Beijing, sparked widespread international condemnation and violent protests in Turkey targeting the Thai consulate in Istanbul.
But while international Islamic militants have carried out many attacks in other parts of Southeast Asia, including on Indonesia's holiday island of Bali in 2002 that killed 202 people, they have not made Thailand a prime target.
And Uighur militants from Muslim-majority Xinjiang, where many complain of religious and cultural discrimination, have never staged such an attack far from the Chinese mainland.
Others security experts have pointed to Thailand's long history of shadowy power plays by groups linked to factions within the military.
"If you want to know who might have been behind this, you have to ask who has the capability," Paul Chambers, director of research at the Institute of South East Asian Affairs in Chiang Mai, told AFP.
Whoever laid the device would have known the blast would kill and maim mercilessly.
Police say the device itself was sophisticated - an estimated three kilograms of high-explosive that scattered body parts, glass and chunks of concrete across one of the city's busiest thoroughfares.
Get the latest news, opinion, trends, coverage, reports and more from AsiaOne—straight to your inbox! Or download our apps from Apple store or Google Play.