2015-08~09
http://directory.ucanews.com/news/thai-catholic-spokesman-says-shock-fear-in-bangkok/2556

Thai Catholic spokesman says shock, fear in Bangkok
The Director of Catholic Social Communications in Thailand, Dr Apichart Intravisit, said there is shock and fear among the Thai people following a deadly bomb blast in the capital Bangkok on August 17.
The bomb exploded near the Erawan Shrine – a popular tourist attraction. The death toll currently stands at 22; while a further 123 people were injured in the blast.
Dr Intravisit said the unprecedented attack has caused deep shock in Bangkok and people are “very fearful”.  He explained that many of Bangkok’s normally bustling streets in the central areas were quite empty the next day of the blast,with far less traffic than normal.
In an interview with Vatican Radio, Dr Intravisit said many conflicting theories are circulating on Thai social media as to who could be behind this deadly bombing which has been called the country’s worst incident.
He said some are blaming it on internal political dissidents whilst others are pointing the finger at international terror networks. 
The Erawan Shrine was crowded at the time of the bomb blast, and foreigners, including Chinese, are among the casualties.The Hindushrine’s popularity with Chinese tourists had suggested the possibility of a connection to the Uighurs - a Turkic-speaking Muslim minority in the far west of China. They complain of cultural and religious persecution at the hands of the Beijing authorities.
There is no previous history of serious terror attacks in Bangkok. The Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha described the bombing as “the worst incident that has ever happened in Thailand”.
“There have been minor bombs or just noise, but this time they aim for innocent lives. They want to destroy our economy, our tourism,” he said.
Thai authorities are currently trying to trace the main suspect, a man in a yellow t-shirt who was filmed by security cameras leaving a backpack at the shrine.