2015-08~09
http://www.news.com.au/world/asia/police-issue-arrest-warrant-for-uighur-man-connected-with-bangkok-bombing/story-fnh81fz8-1227524686261

Thai police issue an arrest warrant for ‘Uighur’ man connected with Bangkok bombing
14:56 PMAP A BYSTANDER saved a baby after a car slid off a pier and plunged into the sea in Ireland, killing five people, including at least two children.
14:48 PMTom Mackay AUSTRALIAN man Tom Mackay was halfway through his 900km walk across India when he came face-to-face with his worst nightmare: A king cobra.
Jakarta's taxi drivers have taken to the streets over ride-hailing apps such as Uber, with some protesters even attacking drivers who refuse to join them.
International charity Water Aid says more than one-tenth of the 650 million people worldwide without access to clean water are in India.
14:03 PMStaff writers ITS huge, curvaceous rear has been likened to the derrière of TV star Kim Kardashian. But jokes aside, the world’s biggest aircraft is soon to be a massive game-changer.
14:02 PMFrank Chung TRUMP’S rallies hit a fresh new low, so bad in fact a police officer described protesters as “the most hateful, evil people I’ve ever seen”.
12:10 PMRod Chester, wires THE FBI says it may have found a way to unlock the iPhone of San Bernardino gunman Syed Farook without Apple’s assistance.
11:44 AMRod Chester in Cupertino National Technology Writer APPLE is very excited about its new range of products, including a new iPhone. Here’s everything you should know.
THAI police have said an arrest warrant has been issued for an ethnic “Uighur” man over last month’s deadly Bangkok blast, for the first time identifying a suspect as a member of the Chinese minority group.
The announcement follows weeks of speculation over the motive and perpetrators of the unclaimed attack which killed 20 people, the majority ethnic Chinese visitors, at a religious shrine in the capital’s bustling downtown district on August 17.
Analysts had increasingly pointed towards militants from China’s mostly Muslim Uighur minority — or their supporters — in revenge for Thailand’s forced deportation of 109 Uighur refugees to an uncertain future in China in July.News_Image_File: Suspect ... An arrest warrant had been issued for an ethnic "Uighur" man over the deadly Bangkok blast. Picture: AFP/Royal Thai PoliceNews_Image_File: Site of the attack ... The Erawan Shrine, the scene of the August 17 bombing, in Bangkok. Picture: AP Photo/Mark Baker
But up until Saturday Thai police had avoided attempts to directly connect the blast with the ethnic group or the kingdom’s major ally China.
“He is Uighur according to his passport,” national police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri told AFP, after authorities released a photo of the moustached and short-haired suspect identified as Abudusataer Abudureheman, or “Ishan”, of “Uighur” ethnicity and “Chinese” nationality.
Thai authorities are already holding in custody two foreign men, whose nationalities remain unconfirmed, over the attack. Ishan, who police say is 27 years old, is among another 11 suspects wanted by police.News_Image_File: Under arrest ... Another of the key suspects in last month's Bangkok bombing, identified as Yusufu Mierili, is escorted by police to court. Picture: AP Photo/Sakchai Lalit
Mr Thavornsiri said Ishan, who left Thailand a day before the blast and is wanted on the charge of “jointly possessing illegal military supplies”, belonged to the criminal network that police believe is responsible, but he was “not the mastermind” of the attack.
But in a statement released Saturday, Thai immigration police said: “According to security agencies, Ishan is the one who plotted, ordered, and funded the attack.” The statement also refers to the arrest warrant for Ishan mentioning his Uighur ethnicity.
The hunt for the perpetrators of the bomb blast has been characterised by confusing and at times contradictory statements from Thai officials.
Later Saturday police appeared to backtrack on Ishan’s ethnicity, releasing a new photo of him without it mentioned and a request asking media “to drop the word Uighur”.
Thailand’s police and ruling military junta have been at pains to rule out the idea that Chinese nationals were deliberately targeted in the attack and have avoided using the Uighur word in briefings to reporters about the suspects.News_Image_File: Paying respects ... A young visitor makes an offering of flowers at the Erawan Shrine following the bombing. Picture: AP Photo/Mark Baker
Uighurs have long-accused Beijing of religious and cultural repression with scores believed to have fled China’s north-western Xinjiang region — home to around 10 million of the group — in recent years, often heading to Turkey via Southeast Asia.
Thailand’s recent deportation of Uighurs had sparked violent protests in Turkey, where nationalist hardliners see the minority as part of a global Turkic-speaking family.
The arrest warrant is the 12th over the unprecedented attack on the Thai capital, which targeted a Hindu shrine particularly popular with Chinese tourists who believe prayers there bring good fortune.
One of the detained suspects, Yusufu Mieraili, was arrested last month with a Chinese passport registering his birthplace as Xinjiang.News_Image_File: Bombing suspect ... Adem Karadag is escorted by soldiers as he arrives to be questioned by police officers at Bangkok's Metropolitan Police Station. Picture: AFP/Christophe Archambault
But police did not confirm his ethnicity or nationality nor that of the other detained suspect, Adem Karadag, who was arrested at a Bangkok flat in possession of bomb-making materials and scores of fake Turkish passports.
Mieraili has confessed to handing over a backpack containing the four kilogram bomb to another, unnamed, man who was later caught on CCTV wearing a yellow T-shirt and placing the bag at the busy shrine moments before the blast.
On Thursday, Bangladesh police confirmed a suspect from the bombing network had arrived in Dhaka from Bangkok on August 16 before flying out to Beijing two weeks later.
But local Thai media reports have said the suspect flew on to Turkey rather than China.
A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. Find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out.
News Limited Copyright © . All times on this site are AEDT (GMT +11).