2015-08~09
http://www.dawn.com/news/1204765

President’s remarks in China - Newspaper - DAWN.COM
PRESIDENT Mamnoon Hussain has been a mostly silent, often underwhelming, president so far. Yet, when it comes to the Pak-China relationship, the ceremonial Pakistani president had an unusually public and political message for his more powerful Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping.
President Hussain is reported to have said that most East Turkestan Independence Movement militants — ethnic Uighur Muslims fighting the Chinese state — have been evicted from Pakistan following Operation Zarb-i-Azb.
Take a look: Pakistan says "almost all" Uighur militants eliminated
He added that Pakistan is committed to ensuring the safety and security of Chinese nationals working on various projects here.
The public comments are a measure of how eager the Pakistani state is to assure the Chinese that everything possible is being done to address their security concerns — China does not even officially acknowledge the existence of the separatist movement and the state media made no reference to Mr Hussain’s comments.
While the claims are quite possibly true, they do not necessarily reflect a longer-term reality. Since 9/11, the Pakistani state has periodically attempted to evict foreign militants from its soil. Be it through the much-lamented peace deals with so-called pro-state militants, counterterrorism operations in urban areas or direct military operations, the space for Arabs, Uzbeks, Chechens, Uighurs and militants of sundry other nationalities has progressively shrunk. Since Zarb-i-Azb in particular, the physical space available to foreign, non-Afghan elements has been virtually eliminated. But it is also the case that many are believed to have escaped to Afghanistan — and the correlation between an increased outside militant presence in Afghanistan and violence in, say, the northern parts of the country has not gone unnoticed. What that means then is that while it is possible to dislodge militants from one area or region, it is far more difficult to eliminate them or put an end to their activities altogether. So long as the Pak-Afghan border remains porous, a return to Pakistan of foreign militants cannot be discounted. Particularly in the case of Uighur militants, the lure to return to Pakistan, just as the state tries to ramp up economic linkages with the Xinjiang region, will be strong. Success today should not translate into complacency tomorrow.
There is another aspect to what President Hussain said in Beijing: while he may have conveyed good news, will there ever be a reckoning inside Pakistan of how the problem of foreign militants was allowed to grow to such an extent to begin with? Who were the architects of a security policy that allowed Fata to become an international hub of militancy? Who were the individuals responsible for letting foreign militants wage war against Pakistan and its neighbouring countries? Without accountability, without honestly facing the past, there is rarely irreversible policy change. What the country needs to collectively pledge is that never again will it allow the mistakes of the past to be repeated. But first, those mistakes must be publicly acknowledged.
On a mobile phone? Get the Dawn Mobile App: Apple Store | Google Play
nice words of wisdom for the corridor of power and struggle.
What was done was for protecting Pakistan from enemies and it still remains relevant even today, hence nothing wrong was done.
"Will there ever be a reckoning inside Pakistan of how the problem of foreign militants was allowed to grow to such an extent to begin with?"
There should be if we are to avoid repeating the same mistake again. History has a nasty habit of repeating itself.
Your last paragraph sums it up! I hope that Pakistan's decision makers not just read this editorial, but think and act upon it...
The Same elements who allowed the foreign militants to make Pakistan their base, were responsible for 1958 military coup which resulted in the break up of Pakistan,
The 1977 military coup which brought religious militancy and fragmentation of Pakistani society along the religious and ethnic lines. The same elements are again claiming that they will clean Pakistan of corruption. They will not let Civilian institutions to become strong.
Why not follow the same policy towards the terrorists who attack Afghanistan and India?
The whole subcontinent will become peaceful with rapid economic progress.
Terrorism has become global phenomenon Today. Despite umpteen attempt to weed it out to the fullest, is never an easy task. The countries concerned must acknowledge this fact.
@sana-1 : The editorial points to very important issues. The editor is trying to educate the public of what has gone wrong in the past in Pak, what were its consequences and what needs to be done to rectify that and find a better course for the future. 
Denying all these means refusing to face the past - and worse, choosing the same path, which surely leads to more destruction. The whole world is waiting for Pak to demonstrate which path it is choosing!
Through this statement, atleast the pak president has come out of the usual 'Denial' strategy and acknowledged that there were Uighur militants in Paksitan.
This president’s remark echoes that of another famous President’s comment “Mission Accomplished”
The Chinese are way smarter than what you possibly think........give them some credit for understanding who says what.
@sana-1 you may think nothing wrong was done but that has damaged image of Pakistan and today no government is ready to help Pakistan until they curb these groups. Editorial is making a valid point. It is a lesson for any country promoting militant groups and it is not just for Pakistan. We cannot live in he past period of hatred and violence. Time to move on in right direction
Make Pakistan secure first, then everything else will work properly.
What goes around comes around. The Chinese communist party are merely fair weather 'friends' they 'want' the same things as the west and anythng in their way is merely collateral damage. Remeber the parade was a huge lie. it was the nationalists who fled to Taiwan who fought the Imperial Japanese troops, not the communists, they infact wanted nothng more than seeing the Natinalists defeated. Enemies enemy os your friend, as the saying goes.
Pakistan has always relied on the big brother for their progress. Whether it is the USA or the Arabs or now it the Chinese. Pakistani government should realize that there is no free lunch and if the big brother throws a few scraps towards you it is because they have their own agenda. Once their agenda is done then it is bye bye. "Raat gaiye baat gaiye" Pakistan has paid heavy price for the help they got from the Arabs and now I wonder what price they will pay for the Chinese help.
Pakistan has to learn on stand on their own feet and any relations with the other countries should be on equal basis.

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
