2015-08~09
http://www.thaivisa.com/forum/topic/851897-police-no-closer-to-solving-erawan-case/

Police 'no closer to solving Erawan case' - Thailand News - Thailand Forum
You currently have javascript disabled. Several functions may not work. Please re-enable javascript to access full functionality.
BANGKOK: -- AFTER questioning some 200 witnesses over the August 17 Erawan Shrine bombing, police investigators are still unable to rule out any of the possible motives, a senior police officer said yesterday.
Metropolitan Police Bureau commissioner Lt-General Sriwara Rangsiprammanakul said the witnesses questioned included those who sustained injuries in the explosion as well as passers-by.
He said police had yet to come to a conclusion on the motive of the bombing, which killed 20 people and injured more than 100 others, or whether it could be connected to the bomb that was dropped into the water on August 18 at the Sathorn Pier.
Police have issued an arrest warrant for an unnamed Asian-looking suspect who was captured on security cameras dropping a bag containing the explosive device into the water at the pier. Nobody was hurt in that explosion. The suspect captured on camera looks 25 to 30 years old and about 170 centimetres tall, as per the warrant issued on Thursday night.
Earlier, a separate arrest warrant was issued for a foreign-looking man suspected of planting the bomb at the Erawan Shrine.
People have come up with a few possible motives for the bomb attack, including political conflict, business disputes and terrorism.
A police source said yesterday that a taxi driver who took the alleged bomber to Hua Lamphong train station gave conflicting statements on exactly where he picked up the suspect.
The source said both police and military officers had interrogated the cab driver. The driver had previously said he picked up the suspect from a building on Rama IV Road, but later changed the location to somewhere on Rama III Road.
Deputy national police chief Lt-General Prawut Thavornsiri, however, said yesterday that he did not think the cabbie was lying, adding that it was possible he did not fully remember all events that took place because it happened many days ago. "We need to allow the witness to go over all the details carefully again," he said.
Meanwhile, national police chief General Somyot Poompanmuang said Sa Kaew Immigration Police had questioned Uighur men they had arrested for illegal entry over the deadly bombing.
Sa Kaew Immigration Police also said yesterday that none of the Uighur men who allegedly escaped from detention in late April looked like the Ratchaprasong suspect.
Pol Colonel Benjapol Rodsawas, deputy commander of Sa Kaew Immigration Police, said they had compared images and saw the three men "looked different" from surveillance-video images of the Erawan bomb suspect. He dismissed earlier reports linking the three escapees to the bombing.
Somyot also slammed unnamed foreign media for linking the bombing to terrorists or religious groups, saying such speculation could adversely affect international ties. He pointed out that police had yet to conclude the motive of the attack or decide who should be held responsible.
In a related development, Army chief General Udomdej Sitabutr said yesterday that investigation into both explosions had seen much progress, though he added that the authorities had to be careful about coming up with a conclusion.
"We have to sympathise with the authorities. Information needs to be dealt with carefully or there could be damage to the country," said Udomdej, who is also deputy defence minister.
Put a team of western-trained boy and girl scouts with all their patches and hashes full of earnings. They will do a  better job than these cops. 
I am so sickened by this constant "could be damage to the country " bullsh1yte. How about a little honesty, such as, we don't know who did it , why they did it or how to resovle it!
Followed by an appeal for international assistance, that IMHO, would do more to restore credibility to the country. But in reality that will never happen, "face" etc and perhaps there is no real desire to solve the case at all.

There have been media reports Thai authorities have been liaising with foreign intelligence agencies and enlisted the support of Interpol, so why are you making the claim in your second paragraph
I am so sickened by this constant "could be damage to the country " bullsh1yte. How about a little honesty, such as, we don't know who did it , why they did it or how to resovle it!
Followed by an appeal for international assistance, that IMHO, would do more to restore credibility to the country. But in reality that will never happen, "face" etc and perhaps there is no real desire to solve the case at all.
      Interesting article in today's ABC news about investigative reporters discovering CCTV footage of what could be the suspect moving away from Lumpini Park after the bombing. Taken on CCTV in a local hospital. It would appear that police didn'tn bother to check, they certainly knew about them as according to one interviewed 'the cameras were regularky checked during the red/yellow troubles'
     Perhaps if the police spent less time looking for posters of girl's nipples and on far more serious matters they just might make more progress.
     The article also states the police have refused offers of assistance from foreigh agencies. Don't know whether this is true or not but I wouldn"t be surprised. Link....http://www.abc.net.a...t-probe/6734234
What they do know is that the bomb was a pipe bomb. Do you remember the case in Nonthaburi (2010??) when someone's house exploded and it turned out that the house was occupied by red shirts trying to assemble a bomb. These were pipe bombs, similar, I understand, in design to the one at the Shrine. Happened again in 2014 when two red shirts blasted themselves to death when the pipe bomb they were handling exploded. This may be a dubious connection, but to my mind there is sufficient circumstantial evidence to link the Erawan Shrine explosion to supporters of the exiled dictator. I wonder if the RTP have tried to forensically connect these three incidents?
So it isn't Miss Scarlet in the Library with a dagger ...but ..Mr Mustard in the Shrine with a pipe ...it would seem funny ..but for the tragedy and loss for the families of those 20 murdered ..with little hope of a resolution..my heart goes out to them.
What they do know is that the bomb was a pipe bomb. Do you remember the case in Nonthaburi (2010??) when someone's house exploded and it turned out that the house was occupied by red shirts trying to assemble a bomb. These were pipe bombs, similar, I understand, in design to the one at the Shrine. Happened again in 2014 when two red shirts blasted themselves to death when the pipe bomb they were handling exploded. This may be a dubious connection, but to my mind there is sufficient circumstantial evidence to link the Erawan Shrine explosion to supporters of the exiled dictator. I wonder if the RTP have tried to forensically connect these three incidents?
Maybe the RTP have short memories...let them keep looking for their 'asian looking foreigner"....they will never catch the real culprits. 
So it isn't Miss Scarlet in the Library with a dagger ...but ..Mr Mustard in the Shrine with a pipe ...it would seem funny ..but for the tragedy and loss for the families of those 20 murdered ..with little hope of a resolution..my heart goes out to them.
I totally agree, I feel for those whom lost their lives....   Make it headlines, and then it will go away.....   Next?   
I am so sickened by this constant "could be damage to the country " bullsh1yte. How about a little honesty, such as, we don't know who did it , why they did it or how to resovle it!
Followed by an appeal for international assistance, that IMHO, would do more to restore credibility to the country. But in reality that will never happen, "face" etc and perhaps there is no real desire to solve the case at all.
To your last sentence, he is very clear in his quote that he is waiting for the police to decide who is responsible, not solve the case.
I am still a little puzzled.
How do you get an arrest warrant for an unnamed person?
I was under the deluded impression that you need to identify the person to be arrested as part of the process of applying for the warrant as it is the first step in the legal process of prosecution.
Even worse than that : it seems that when you know exactly who you want to arrest, you have to go through the same process.
And, of course, announce that you are doing it to the press to give the guy ample warning. It's so ridiculous, it's insane.
The more I see what goes on here, the more obvious it is that the rules have been written by people who want to be sure they have a 'get out' should their own crimes be found out.
What they do know is that the bomb was a pipe bomb. Do you remember the case in Nonthaburi (2010??) when someone's house exploded and it turned out that the house was occupied by red shirts trying to assemble a bomb. These were pipe bombs, similar, I understand, in design to the one at the Shrine. Happened again in 2014 when two red shirts blasted themselves to death when the pipe bomb they were handling exploded. This may be a dubious connection, but to my mind there is sufficient circumstantial evidence to link the Erawan Shrine explosion to supporters of the exiled dictator. I wonder if the RTP have tried to forensically connect these three incidents?
The more time goes by, the  more difficult it will be to solve this case unless some unexpected break comes up.
Trail is cold now but still the FBI, Mossad, CIA, Scotland Yard could be of help.
So the government/police doesn't have high tech equipment to help find the bomber(s) but won't allow another country to help in the investigation. Guess it could be because of a loss of face or fear of having those responsible found out. If it really is incompetence, the terrorists may take comfort in knowing they are safe and continue with the heinous acts. Also, why would anyone come forward with information when they may be accused of being in cahoots with the bombers by authorities looking for a scapegoat. It's all a bad joke. 
Trail is cold now but still the FBI, Mossad, CIA, Scotland Yard could be of help.

Yes ,Scotland Yard were so good at solving the Yorkshire ripper case !!! Only took them about 2 years while the ripper continued to bait them and kill other women .