2015-08~09
http://www.dw.com/en/thai-police-looking-for-uighur-man-over-bangkok-bombing/a-18711187

Thai police looking for ′Uighur′ man over Bangkok bombing | News | DW.COM | 12.09.2015

Thai police have issued an arrest warrant for an ethnic 'Uighur' man over last month's deadly shrine blast in Bangkok. It is the first time authorities have identified a suspect as a member of the Chinese minority group.


Thai authorities on Saturday issued an arrest warrant for a 12th suspect wanted in connection with the 
bombing at Bangkok's Erawan Shrine last month, in which 20 people, mostly ethnic Chinese visitors, were killed.

In a statement, immigration police said the suspect was "the one who plotted, ordered, and funded the attack," and referred to the arrest warrant as mentioning the man's Uighur ethnicity.

Later on Saturday, police seemed to backtrack on the question of ethnicity, and released a new photo of him along with a request asking media "to drop the word Uighur."

Police spokesman Lt. Gen. Prawut Thavornsiri said the man left Thailand a day before the blast and was "not the mastermind" of the attack, but was wanted on the charge of "jointly possessing illegal military supplies."

Speculation has been growing in the country that the attack may have been carried out 
by militants from China's Uighur minority - or from among their supporters - in revenge for Thailand's forced deportation of 109 Uighur refugees in July.

The Uighurs, many of whom have their home in the northwestern Xinjiang region of China, have long accused Beijing of discrimination as well as religious and cultural repression, with scores fleeing to Turkey via Southeast Asia in recent years.

Up to now, Thai authorities have avoided suggesting that Chinese nationals were deliberately targeted in the August 17 attack and have declined to mention the word Uighur in briefings to reporters for fear of harming Thailand's vital tourism industry and ties with China.

Thai authorities have already detained 
two foreign male suspects, whose nationalities have not been confirmed, over the attack.

The Hindu Erawan shrine, where the blast occurred, is located in the Thai capital's busy downtown district and is highly popular with Chinese tourists, who believe praying there brings good luck.
Thai police say a key suspect now in custody handed an explosive device in a backpack to a man who allegedly carried out a deadly attack on a Bangkok shrine last month. The motive for the blast remains unclear. (09.09.2015)
  

The arrest of a Turkic-speaking man in connection with the Bangkok bombing has fueled speculation the blast may have been a revenge attack for Thailand's deportation of ethnic Uighurs to China in July. DW examines. (02.09.2015)
  

Experts in Bangkok have been sifting through debris after at least 21 people were killed and scores wounded in a blast said to have targeted foreigners. Officials say the attack has not yet been linked to any group. (18.08.2015)
  

A military court in Thailand has charged two men accused of carrying out a bomb attack at a Bangkok shrine that killed 20 and injured 120 more. Officials describe them as Uighurs from China's Xinjiang region.
Thai police say a key suspect now in custody handed an explosive device in a backpack to a man who allegedly carried out a deadly attack on a Bangkok shrine last month. The motive for the blast remains unclear.
Thai police have said a key suspect in last month's bombing in downtown Bangkok has fled to Turkey. According to police, the attack could be the work of China's ethnic Uighur minority who have sympathizers in Turkey.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
