2015-08~09
http://english.cntv.cn/2015/09/27/VIDE1443329402512966.shtml

China celebrates 60th anniversary of Xinjiang autonomy - CCTV News - CCTV.com English

Hot:
Exhibition of IPR protection
 | 
 Yuan
 | 
 Golden Era
 | 
 Four Comprehensives
 | 
 AIIB

Opinion | Panview | One Belt, One Road | Tibet | Closer to China with R.L.Kuhn
China | World | Business | Sports | Culture | Sci-Tech | Opinion | Special Reports
CCTV app for iPhone | iPad | Android Phone | I Love Africa for iOS | Android
Watch to Learn | Growing up with Chinese | Special Chinese | Travel in Chinese
CCTV-9 Docu Live | One City, One Flavor | World Heritage China | Roof of the World
Dialogue | China 24 | News Hour | Global Business | Sports Scene | Culture Express
China Video | World Video | Most Popular | Reporters | Correspondents |CCTV Interviews
Xi's speech | Military parade | Commemoration Ceremony | Patriotic songs
This year marks the 60th anniversary of the establishment of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. A number of festive activities are being held to mark the occasion. Earlier, China has issued a white paper on the ethnic equality, unity and developments on the region over the past six decades. The paper says the principle of equality among all ethnic groups has been upheld. It also notes that Xinjiang has achieved steady and rapid economic development.
A team of CCTV reporters have traveled to the region to document the changes. In our first story today, Han Peng goes to Tacheng to discover how the border town is embracing its ethnic diversity. 
Xinjiang is a vast region with a huge ethnic diversity. But instead of ethnic conflicts, inter-ethnic marriages are becoming more common in cities across the region. CCTV's Han Peng travels to the border town Tacheng to see how people are dealing with their ethnic differences at home and in the workplace. 
Mrs. Bu Aliam's family probably celebrates more festivals than anywhere else in the world. She herself is a Uyghur, but she married an ethnically Daur man.
Several of their children are also involved in inter-ethnic marriages. Her family now consists of six ethnicities, including Han, Kazakh, Hui and Russian.
And each of their own festivals is also a big day for the others. For the family, their differences seem more like a blessing than a burden, if they can be managed well. 
"We have four seperate celebrations each year for the New Year alone according to our respective traditions, which brings happiness to all of us. When we get together, we never say things like "you are a Uyghur and I am a Han". That helps for nothing," Bu Aliam said.
As they sit down at the same dinner table, their customs can't be more different.
Each has their own preference in clothing and cuisine and, more importantly, their own god to pray to before they eat.
Uyghurs, Hui and Kazakhs pray to Allah, although slightly differently, and the Russians to Jesus Christ. There are also followers of Buddhism, Shamanism and non-believers, too.
What their own god says to them can be very different, if not opposed, from time to time. The family's host says religious conflict under the same roof is the last thing they want. 
"When we pray, we are very careful that we pray in private or in our own churchs and mosques, so as not to offend others.  When we are together, we respect different religious customs, such as avoiding contentious words and the food of pork in front of Muslims. The key to religious harmony is a deep-rooted respect for each other in every single detail of life," said Fu Ming, Xinjiang resident.
And Aliam's family is nothing special in the city. Across Tacheng, multi-ethnic families account for well over a third of the population.
The close interaction among different ethnicities has fostered tolerance and open-mindedness for all ethnic groups. 
For most people who haven't been to Xinjiang, the threats of terrorism and religious extremism are perhaps some of the first words that come into their minds. But Xinjiang is a VAST region with HUGE differences from one place to another. Here in Tacheng, over 20 ethnic groups are living in peace.
Tacheng is on the Chinese-Kazakh border. Here, in the city's border trading center, ethnic-Kazakh Nazi Chilizada owns a small shop. She learns mandarin Chinese by herself for the sake of business, and hires people regardless of their ethnicity. 
"We have employees of ethically Han, Uyghur, Kazakh, and so on. All we look into is the ability to work, plus the tolerance toward other groups. We all think that without ethnic unity, nothing can be achieved," Chilizada said.
And for Mrs. Bu Aliam's family, ethnic unity is vital, both for their own family relations and for the stability of the region.



Share this: 
Share on twitter
Share on facebook
Share on sinaweibo
Share on email




Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Instagram
Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Wechat
Manufacturing upgrade high on agenda as China Development Forum closes

Climate Change Conference
G20, APEC Summits
Xi visits U.S.
Beijing 2022
Xi Attends BRICS Summit
Truth and Denial
July 7th Incident
Understanding the CPC
Li Attends 17th China-EU Leaders' Meeting
7th China-U.S. S&ED & 6th CPE
Dragon Boat Festival
The Basic Law
Beijing Bids for 2022 Winter Olympics
Xi Visits Kazakstan, Russia, Belarus
Nepal Earthquake
World Book Day
2015 Boao Forum
2015 Two Sessions
AirAsia Flight Crashed
