2015-08~09
http://www.bignewsnetwork.com/news/236179689/china-jails-45-in-unrest-hit-xinjiang

China Jails 45 in Unrest-Hit Xinjiang
Our eNewspaper network was founded in 2002 to provide stand-alone digital news sites tailored for the most searched-for locations for news. With a traditional newspaper format, more than 100 sites were established each with a newspaper-type name to cover the highest-ranked regions, countries, cities and states. Each site operates independently providing around-the-clock local news coverage, global & business updates, RSS feeds, and news releases.
Established in 1999, each News.Net site specializes in local news, weather, international headlines, business and finance reports. The News.Net directory of sites covers every major region, country and city around the world, as well as U.S. states and industry sectors. Each independently-operated portal is networked throughout the social media spectrum and is administered by Mainstream Media EC on behalf of Big News Network.
Xinjiang is home to the Uighur ethnic minority, many of whom complain of repression and are the subject of an intense anti-terror crackdown by Beijing.
Officials say several of those who had crossed the border had gathered with others to view Muslim extremist propaganda and were trying to take part in jihad. At least some of them had been captured by Tajikistan police near the border with Afghanistan.
Others were jailed on charges of organizing illegal border crossings.
Many Uighurs have complained of harsh cultural and religious suppression as well as economic marginalization under Chinese rule, and have increasingly tried to flee the country. China has repeatedly accused Uighurs of joining international terror groups and has attempted to prevent them from leaving.
Following intense pressure by Beijing, Thailand last month returned over 100 Uighurs to China, in a move slammed by many human rights groups.
FILE - Suspected Uighurs are transported back to a detention facility in the town of Songkhla in southern Thailand after visiting women and children at a separate shelter, March 26, 2014.
China denies mistreating the Uighurs, arguing that it has launched a massive campaign of economic development in Xinjiang. It has also launched a massive security crackdown in Xinjiang, which has been plagued by recent violent attacks that Beijing has blamed on Islamic militants. 
