2015-08~09
http://www.thaivisa.com/forum/topic/852409-immigration-procedures-toughened-following-ratchaprasong-bombing/

Immigration procedures toughened following Ratchaprasong bombing - Thailand News - Thailand Forum
You currently have javascript disabled. Several functions may not work. Please re-enable javascript to access full functionality.
Immigration procedures toughened following Ratchaprasong bombing
BANGKOK, 31 August 2015 (NNT) - The Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) has admitted that Thailand needs to be more thorough regarding immigration security.
Foreign Minister Don Pramudwinai has urged the public to wait for official statements before making any assumptions. His comments came after the arrest of a foreign suspect believed to have been involved in Ratchaprasong blast.
The MFA will also increase its border and airport security. People entering and leaving the country will be checked by immigration officials more rigorously from now on.
The Foreign Minister called for more immigration staff to track down foreigners who might have overstayed their visas and deal with those staying in Thailand.
Mr. Don added that everyone must work side by side to regain the confidence of the global community regarding the safety of foreign travelers.
True, but if they go the way they did when the coup first happened by going completely over board and heavy handed in enforcement of visa laws with EVERYONE then this will also have a negative effect. 
So, the passport stamper might speak to me and ask my name? Or say "hello"? They couldn't do any less at their jobs than they presently do!
Another knee jerk reaction. Some advice. Look at the evidence, take some time about implementing new procedures. Look at the positives and negatives and then train those involve, giving enough time for tourists and foreigners to adapt to the new rules.
I have a feeling all this will be ignored and some simpleton method will be rushed in by next Monday.
One hopes that this will not merely be a crackdown, on the many ordinary law-abiding foreigners, who live here legally within-the-rules or visit as tourists.
Perhaps Immigration-computers might check with other countries' systems, whether passports being shown at the Thai borders, are legal or are counterfeit ?
The 90 day reporting immigration website is not working now. I wonder if that has anything to do with the latest plan of action?
People move in and out of the country and sometimes without notice.
Cars trunks are never checked unless a tippoff is made, the car inhabitants passports handed over and on change the officer of duty wants to see faces.
Busses go up and down bridges but never checked of they are empty ensofort ensofort
Criminals having living been living here. For decades! One must ask the government, why?
Know people who live here 20 year overstay....they won't catch them, but people who want to make everything right will get a problem
The 90 day reporting immigration website is not working now. I wonder if that has anything to do with the latest plan of action?
Foreign minister suggests tightening up of immigration systemBANGKOK: -- Foreign Minister Don Paramavinai stressed the need for the immigration system to tightened up in light of an incident of a foreigner who owns a dozen of fake passports and who was thought to have entered the country with a fake passport.
He said that authorities concerned should examine the entire immigration system to find out if there are any loopholes which need to be plugged. He emphasized the need for the tightening of screening process for incoming visitors or tourists even from countries which do not need visas for visiting Thailand.
The minister also urged members of the public to be on the alert and to report to the police if they came across any suspicious foreigners.
In the aftermath of the deadly bombing at Ratchaprasong which killed 22 people and injured over 100 others, the minister said that all parties concerned must work hard to restore foreign tourists’ confidence in Thailand.
Source: http://englishnews.t...igration-system
 
-- Thai PBS 2015-08-31
Don says screening of foreign visitors must be stricter
The NationBANGKOK: -- Foreign Minister Don Pramudwinai said Monday that immigration officers will have to screen visiting foreigners more strictly following bomb attacks in Bangkok by foreigners.
Don said the arrested suspect has been living in Thailang long before the attacks.
Don said the Foreign Ministry will consider which possible loopholes are that may allow the attackers to enter the country.
Source: http://www.nationmul...r-30267806.html
-- The Nation 2015-08-31
the thais involved dont count....as they were forced into the act by wicked forigners
Old idiots like this make me sick they live in a bubble and have no real idea what forigners have to go thro to live here...many who have the NON O-A have to get a yearly police cert from their home countrys.....does this guy even know about the NEW system being installed at ALL the THAI international airports that link into the Interpol database ..that we all will have to pay an air ticket surcharge to have our personal data checked
thailand needs to wake up and fast ....immigration all over the world is changing , just take a look at the US and the EU its a nightmare....thailand has been off the radar now its fully on it ...Bali thought the same years ago
How about just following up when there are media reports of rampant human smuggling and issuance of thousands of fake passports?
How about just following up when there are media reports of rampant human smuggling and issuance of thousands of fake passports?
Because that would involve using logic and reason. Neither of which are demonstrated very often here.
 
One hopes that this will not merely be a crackdown, on the many ordinary law-abiding foreigners, who live here legally within-the-rules or visit as tourists.
Perhaps Immigration-computers might check with other countries' systems, whether passports being shown at the Thai borders, are legal or are counterfeit ?
Nice idea - but real time links between the various systems do not exist. And even if they did, the added time for each entrant would cause mayhem, especially when you remember that every system tends to be in the national language..
how about just training hotel workers/accomodation leasers to recognise obviously forged passports?
Know people who live here 20 year overstay....they won't catch them, but people who want to make everything right will get a problem
I too know some absolute wasters that are here and have even been caught by the cops a few times only to bribe their way out. 
"The MFA will also increase its border and airport security."
saunds guid to ear!!! but what about those who make money on the khaosen road, selling fake degrees, documents,driving licences?
The 90 day reporting immigration website is not working now. I wonder if that has anything to do with the latest plan of action?
Right you are. I just finished reporting online. After I posted the above I called 1111 and reported it not working. The guy said they would see about it. The first page of the form was working but it wouldn't go to the second page. Nice work immigration IT department.
Criminals having living been living here. For decades! One must ask the government, why?
Most of the criminals  you mention are entitled to live here, being Thais. However many of the lads blending into the general expat population in  seaside resorts around the kingdom have a less than savory past. If they can beat the system, the system needs to be updated.
 