2015-08~09
http://www.thephuketnews.com/malaysia-detains-8-in-connection-with-erawan-bombing-54228.php

Malaysia detains 8 in connection with Erawan bombing
MALAYSIA: Eight people, including four believed to be ethnic Uighur Muslims, have been detained in Malaysia for questioning in connection with last month’s bombing of Bangkok’s Erawan shrine, a senior official said today (Sept 23).
National deputy police chief Noor Rashid Ibrahim said they were detained in the past week in Kuala Lumpur as well as in northeastern Kelantan state.
Four of the eight were Malaysians involved in human trafficking, while another four were believed to be Uighur men who entered the country illegally, he said. While there is no evidence they were directly involved in the bombing, they are being investigated to see if they had any role in other activities surrounding the blast.
“Right now, there is no concrete evidence to show that they are directly involved,” deputy inspector-general Rashid told reporters.
He said Thai police have been notified, and he hopes they can aid in identifying the men. Thailand will need to provide basic proof of their involvement in the bombing if it wants to extradite the suspects, he said.
Mr Rashid initially said the Uighurs had no documents on them and that their only offence was entering Malaysia illegally from Thailand. However, he later said they had passports but it was unclear if they were genuine. He didn’t give further details.
The August 17 blast at the Ratchaprasong intersection shrine also injured more than 120. Many of the victims were foreigners as the shrine is a popular destination for tourists and Thais alike.
In Bangkok, national police chief Somyot Poompanmoung said he has not received any confirmation from the Malaysian police that the suspects were involved in the blast.
Thai authorities have arrested two suspects they say were linked to the bombing, but believe the actual bomber and the mastermind of the plot have fled the country.
Thailand has suggested that those behind the blast may have been from a gang involved in smuggling Uighurs from the Chinese region of Xinjiang, while others speculate they may be separatists or Islamist extremists angry that Thailand repatriated more than 100 Uighurs to China in July.
Uighurs complain of oppression by the Chinese government, and some advocate turning Xinjiang into a separate Uighur state.
Re: the "biased, negative attention applied to the accused by local media".... They basically eviscerated the man - you were expecting maybe...(Read More)
Joe12, here you go again, your reading skills seem limited, here is what you should have read "its captain, who radioed in for a full flight safe...(Read More)
Passed by the Sam Kong underpass works today.
Just 15 working days until 09 April,( exclusive Sundays) and still so much to do.
Not the slightest ch...(Read More)
This irresponsible little t*rd should have all sentences and parole revoiked, and be sent to prison for 5 years...no reductions...no nothing... just 5...(Read More)
Joe12, Most of us would not have replied to Kurt, but you seem to have found the need, most of us would know he was referring to "“However, I s...(Read More)
The strict enforcement is to cover the key traffic rules and regulations: driving on footpaths; driving without a license; driving against the traffic...(Read More)
For God's sake stop shilly shallying. Lock her up like she deserved 5 years ago, but tack a few more years on her sentence...(Read More)
Unbelievable lenient sentence? She has a clear disregard for human life & authority? It seems she has not shown any remorse! ...(Read More)
I use this opportunity to highlight what , as resident, I consider scandalous ,the privates beaches where you cannot go at all and the pay beaches lik...(Read More)
I love that, The guy says "I think it is time to fine 'all' people that break the laws" makes me wonder which ones they fine now ? ...(Read More)