2015-08~09
http://www.4-traders.com/news/A-month-after-Bangkok-bombing-police-investigations-roll-on--21053100/

A month after Bangkok bombing, police investigations roll on
A month after a deadly explosion rocked central Bangkok, police are continuing with an extensive manhunt while the media awaits news of criminal charges and the unravelling of a complex network of potential criminals.
Since the bomb was detonated at the city's Erawan shrine, five people have been arrested in connection with the case -- two in Thailand and three in Malaysia -- yet there has been no news of court dates or convictions.
On Aug. 17, a device exploded at the shrine, killing 20 people and injuring more than a hundred more. Many of the victims were Chinese tourists. A second explosion took place at a Bangkok pier the following day. Nobody was injured as a result of the second blast.
During the following month, police in Thailand issued 12 arrest warrants -- for a Thai woman, four Turkish men, two Chinese men and five foreign men whose nationalities were not revealed.
This list of nationalities reflects the complicated web surrounding the case, which has involved authorities in Bangladesh, China, Malaysia and Turkey.
In terms of arrests, three people -- a Pakistani man, a Malaysian man and a Malaysian woman -- were detained in Malaysia on Monday, but have not been handed over to authorities in Thailand yet.
Thailand's police chief Somyot Pumpanmuang said on Wednesday that the three were suspected of being involved with a Uyghur smuggling syndicate.
A Chinese man, Mieraili Yusufu, was arrested close to the Thailand-Cambodia border two weeks after the attack. Authorities said he had been attempting to leave the country.
On Sept. 9 Mieraili was taken to Erawan shrine in a bid to reconstruct the movements of the suspects in the case on Aug. 17. At the time he was said to have confessed to having taken a bag containing a bomb to another man, before moving to another location to take a photograph of the explosion. However, he denied making or detonating the device.
The other arrest in the case was that of Adem Karadak, a man who was arrested in an apartment in northern Bangkok in late August, and whose nationality has not yet been formally confirmed, although there have been reports that he is Turkish. Officers said they had been able to communicate with him in English, Arabic and Turkish.
However, police continue to hunt for a number of other suspects, among them a Thai woman who has contacted police to say she is now living in Turkey and is innocent of any involvement in the case. Wanna Suansan is the subject of an arrest warrant, along with a man who was living with her at an apartment in northern Bangkok where materials for making explosives was found. Her husband, Emrah Davutoglu -- a Turkish national -- is also wanted by police, although it is unclear if he is the same man who was living at the apartment with Wanna.
Authorities in Bangladesh were involved in the case after police announced they were looking for a Uyghur man known as "Ishan" or Abudusataer Abudureheman who had left Thailand for Bangladesh.
As well as the difficulties in ascertaining who was involved with the blast and how, Thai authorities have battled with the media in coming up with a definite motive for the attack.
Media outlets have largely taken the view that the attack was carried out in retaliation for the deportation of 109 Uyghur people from Thailand to China in July.
An analyst from IHS-Jane's, a defense analysis firm, spoke publicly in support of this theory, suggesting that a Turkish militant group -- the Grey Wolves -- had carried out the attack in support of the Uyghur people.
However, in recent days the chief of the Thai police has attacked the media for focusing on this idea, and instead saying the attack was retaliation for police operations against Uyghur smuggling rings.
Police have been able to make some connections in the case. On Aug. 27 officers announced that they had been able to link two telephone numbers to one of the suspects, while on Sept. 11 it was revealed that a money trail had been found, leading from seven Chinese and Turkish nationals to four of the suspects in the bombing case. One of the four recipients was Emrah Davutoglu.
Ten suspicious bank accounts had been found to be related to the attack, eight of which belonged to Wanna, one to Emrah Davutoglu and one to Mieraili Yusufu.
However, as no person or group has claimed responsibility for the attack, the police investigations must go on.