2015-08~09
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/11890958/George-Osborne-praised-by-China-for-ignoring-human-rights.html

George Osborne praised by China for ignoring human rights - Telegraph
George Osborne has been praised by Chinese state media for his deferential manner and avoidance of publicly raising human rights issues during his trade mission to China.
The Chancellor proclaimed a “golden decade” for UK-China relations this week, announcing a £2 billion Chinese investment in British nuclear power industry, but has been hammered by human rights groups for failing to make any public statements on the lack of basic freedoms in China.
George Osborne speaks at the Shanghai Stock Exchange in Shanghai, China  Photo: Bloomberg
The Global Times, a nationalist State-run Chinese newspaper, lauded the 44-year-old Chancellor for his “pragmatism” in concentrating on business matters and not drawing attention to human rights like some other visiting western leaders.
Chancellor George Osborne during a visit to the imposing 14-platform Chengdu East railway station  Photo: Stefan Rousseau/PA
“Keeping a modest manner is the correct attitude for a foreign minister visiting China to seek business opportunities,” the editorial said.
“Some Westerners believe their officials should behave like a master of human rights to show their superiority over China and the East.”
Human rights groups were particularly incensed by Mr Osborne’s decision to visit the restive far-western province of Xinjiang where China has long been accused of systematically repressing the local Muslim Uighur population.
Chancellor George Osborne visits an industrial area in the city of Urumqi in north west China, after he became the first serving government minister to travel to Xinjiang province.  Photo: Stefan Rousseau/PA
Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch, said: “George Osborne’s comments haven’t just obliterated the UK’s claims to promoting human rights in China for no obvious gain.
“They’re also undermining the idea at the core of international diplomacy – that governments can and indeed must call one another out in the face of gross violations.”
Mr Osborne told the BBC he had raised the issue of human rights in the context of "economic development, how we help kids from poor areas of China".
Over the past two years Mr Osborne has been unapologetic in his courtship of China after the Chinese government suspended all ministerial contact for over a year to punish David Cameron for holding a meeting with the Dalai Lama in May 2012.
China reviles the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader which it regards as a “dangerous splittist” and a threat to Chinese territorial integrity.
Downing Street subsequently indicated that Mr Cameron had no plans to meet the Dalai Lama in the near future, further angering human rights groups who accused the Cameron government of caving in to Chinese bullying.
Chancellor George Osborne sit in the cab of one of the 220mph bullet trains  Photo: Stefan Rousseau/PA
Mr Osborne’s Chinese charm offensive has also caused some bad blood between London and Washington which complained about the UK’s “constant accommodation” of China after Mr Osborne joined China’s new rival Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank last year.
The US is currently trying to take a harder line with China over key long-term governance issues, such as cyber-spying, even threatening to sanction Chinese companies and individuals caught spying for commercial gain.
The warm words of praise for Mr Osborne contrast sharply with the mood at this week’s tense summit between Barack Obama and the Chinese president Xi Jinping.
Some senior US officials are privately scathing about Britain’s new approach to China, arguing that the UK’s “supine” stance was undermining both British world standing and efforts to present a united front to China on key long-term issues like cyber-spying.
British officials counter that the US, with its economic heft, can afford to be tough with China, but that Britain, desperate to increase its exports to emerging markets, cannot.

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
