2015-08~09
http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/editorials/archives/2015/08/02/2003624438

Ethnic tensions in Xinjiang complicate China-Turkey ties - Taipei Times
For many Chinese, the images coming out of Turkey last month were ferocious and frightening.
Online video clips and photographs from Istanbul showed Turkish and ethnic Uighur protesters burning a Chinese flag outside China’s consulate; angry men racing threateningly toward Korean tourists, apparently thinking they were Chinese; and a mostly Uighur mob smashing windows at the Thai consulate after Thailand sent more than 100 Uighurs back to China against their wishes.
Chinese might wonder whether this is the same Turkey that has been attracting their country’s tourists in greater numbers — or, for that matter, the one that agreed to buy a missile defense system from a Chinese company, or that paid Chinese state-owned enterprises to build a 483km high-speed rail line between its two largest cities.
Turkey, heir to the Ottoman Empire, has long seen itself as a protector of Turkic-speaking people across the arc of Central Asia — and that includes the mostly Muslim Uighurs in China’s western region of Xinjiang, where ethnic tensions and outbursts of violence between Uighurs and ethnic Han, the dominant group in China, have been rising because of what Uighurs say is official repression, although Chinese officials blame terrorist ideology.
Some analysts wonder whether this issue, one that has long simmered in Turkey, could upend the two nations’ growing economic and diplomatic ties and tar the image of each country in the eyes of the other. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan left Ankara on Tuesday for a state visit to China.
“Bilateral trade is growing; China has sold Turkey some weapons; and cooperation has been carried on in various fields,” said Yin Gang, a Middle East researcher at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. “[However] the Uighur problem is somehow standing in the way.”
Erdogan’s office did not provide details about his China trip. Turkish newspapers close to the government have reported that the president will be accompanied by a group of Turkish businessmen; they have not said whether Erdogan, who is also dealing with an escalation of Turkey’s fight against the Islamic State — formerly known as the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant — and against Kurdish militants, intends to raise the Uighur issue with the Chinese.
Two developments brought the Uighur issue to the fore of the countries’ relationship in recent weeks. Early in July, Turks and Uighurs protested in the streets of Istanbul and Ankara after hearing that China was forcing Uighurs in Xinjiang to eat during the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan — and, possibly, killing some violators. (There has been no confirmation that such killings have occurred.) Days later, Turks and Uighurs protested the forced repatriation of Uighurs by Thailand, an act also condemned by the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and by human rights organizations. Chinese officials have insisted that the Uighurs planned to go to Syria and Iraq, via Turkey, to join the Islamic State.
China and Turkey have had sharp diplomatic exchanges recently over the treatment of Uighurs in Xinjiang. On June 30, the Turkish Foreign Ministry said that reports of the ban on Ramadan fasting and limits on other religious observances had “caused sadness among the Turkish people” and that Turkey had conveyed its “deep concern” to the Chinese ambassador.
Comments will be moderated. Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned.