2015-08~09
https://www.tytnetwork.com/2015/08/14/fox-news-has-zero-journalistic-integrity/

Fox News Has Zero Journalistic Integrity
In The Young Turks on YouTube by Aaron WysockiAugust 14, 20152 Comments
Fox News Anchor Megyn Kelly and Donald Trump recently had a bit of a famous dust up. She asked him some hard questions during the debate, which were perfectly legitimate. He was offended by the questions in regard to his treatment of women and wound of saying outrageous and horrible things about where she’s bleeding from. Cenk Uygur (host of The Young Turks) delivers his Final Judgement on how Fox News delivers the news. Does Fox News have even a shred of journalistic integrity? Will we ever reach a point when conservatives won’t tolerate this nonsense anymore? Let us know what you think in the comments.
I think Rupert Morlock had Megyn Kelly attack Donald Trump because he dosent like Trumps honesty, and his going against the ESTABLISHMENT. Morlock is a big supporter of Hellary.
Also, Kelly willing went along with the attack, as rumors have it, because she is one of Hellary’s lesbian lovers.
Since the debate Kelly has been fired from all future debates, and Hellary has subsequently fired Kelly from servicing her.
Cenk, MSNBC stopped allowing comments because so many people are taking their anger at Comcast. Here is my take: Comcast punishes free speech
 I am dismayed that a media giant that is allowed to help write the TTP agreement has violated the first amendment right of freedom of speech. They took Ed Shultz’s TV show away because Ed spoke out against the TPP. Boehner, who is the worst house leader of our era, and McConnell, who is the most ineffective Senate leader who accomplished nothing but more obstruction, will again not take any action against a media giant for violating the Constitution of the United States. Anyone involved in mass media should not be suppressing free speech let alone setting international policy regarding media expansion. The least Boehner and McConnell could do is demand that Comcast be removed from the TPP negotiations because they don’t represent what our nation stands for. I encourage all viewers of MSNBC to voice their concern about Comcast’s blatant disregard for free speech. If Congress allows this then we will have the media telling us whatever they want like FOX news has done. I thought MSNBC was the beacon of free speech but now know it is free speech as long as you say what Comcast wants you to say. Dave Clark