2015-08~09
http://www.neurope.eu/article/china-moves-to-ban-strategic-military-technology-exports/

China moves to ban strategic military technology exports
A display of Chinese rockets and spacecraft at the Military Museum in Beijing, China 19 May 2011. The rise of China's military continues to cause concern for neighbouring nations and the US which has an extensive presence in Asian. Recent reports indicate that carrier borne drones will be deployed on US aircraft carriers in the Pacific. This may provide the impetus for China to further ratchet up its own drone development program.
Primarily focusing on UVA and supercomputer technology, China is worried about patent infringement and copy cats
Xinua said on Monday that China is placing restrictions on technology exports, beginning August 15.
There are two technological sectors of rising military and economic significance, namely drones and supercomputers. Having largely narrowed the gap with international competitors, China is not moving to ban the export of drones and supercomputers to prevent “copy cats” and “intellectual rights” infringement! China increasingly also fears non-state actors getting their hands on its technology.
Chinese technology is perceived as overall lagging behind the United States and Israel, that is, the biggest exporters of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) with wide agricultural, security, search and rescue, military, and mass media applications. Yet China’s cost effectiveness and politics are attracting buyers such as Nigeria, Pakistan and Egypt.
China is investment massively in UAV technology, which fits its denial of space and asymmetrical warfare military doctrine, with weapon systems easier to manufacture and cheaper to develop.
Drones and supercomputers could be powerful assets for non-state actors, although domestic threats such as the East Turkestan Islamic Movement are not considered able to exploit these assets. Nonetheless, drones have been used by the Chinese military in the Xinjiang region where the separatist movement is active, as well as in search and rescue operations.