2015-08~09
http://www.worldbulletin.net/asia-pacific/164271/police-confirm-bangkok-bomb-linked-to-uighur-deportation

Police confirm Bangkok bomb linked to Uighur deportation | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
For the first time since the Aug. 17 deadly bombing in Bangkok, Thailand's police have recognized that the blast is connected to the deportation by Bangkok of 109 Uighur to China in July.
"The bombing is a result of the interests of human smuggling rings being affected by the crackdown by Thai authorities and is connected as well to the sending of 109 Uighur to China," Thai police chief General Somyot Pumpanmuang told reporters at a press conference Tuesday.
"But in this case [the sending of the Uighur], it was necessary to follow the law," he added.
Pumpanmuang also mentioned the ransacking of the Thai consulate in Istanbul which took place on news of the deportation, saying that it was "too early to say if the same group of people [involved in the consulate ransacking] was also involved in the bombing".
Up until Tuesday, Thai authorities had been wary of publicly connecting the blast to the July deportation.
The 85 men and 24 women sent to China were from a group of around 350 who were being held in Thai immigration centers after being rounded up in the kingdom last year.
Around 180 others had earlier been sent according to their wishes to Turkey, which welcomes the Uighur as its own as they are among a number of Turkic tribes that inhabit the region of Xinjiang and surrounding areas.
The deportation to China in July saw families separated, husbands taken away from wives and fathers and mothers from children.
As a chorus of protests by international organizations and foreign governments against Thailand’s decision to send the group to Beijing grew, a further group of eight women and children were also sent to Turkey.
The reaction to the deportation to China was particularly strong in Turkey, where a group of pro-Uighur people vandalized the Thai consulate in Istanbul on July 9.
Around 52 Uighur -- mostly men -- are still detained in immigration centers in southern Thailand.
Thai human rights activist Angkhana Neelaphaijit told Anadolu Agency last week that a high-ranking government official had informed her that they will not be sent to China.
Thai police had previously insisted on the theory that the bombing was a revenge attack by a people smuggling ring whose interests had been affected by a crackdown by Thai authorities since last May.
Police spokesman Gen. Prawut Thavornsiri stated earlier this month that the blast in which 20 people lost their lives -- six of them Chinese nationals -- was not related to "international terrorism", but rather to "people smuggling".
"We have agreed already that I won't mention the name of a country, the name of a group or their religion. Please allow me to say that it is a network, and let's wait and see which group it is," he added.
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
