2015-08~09
http://www.worldbulletin.net/headlines/163640/china-jails-45-in-east-turkestan-for-illegal-border-crossing

China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing' | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
China has jailed 45 people in East Turkestan region for "illegal border crossing", state media said Thursday, as a group representing the mainly Muslim Uighur minority condemned the sentences.
Courts in at least five cities in the western region jailed the suspects for several crimes including "organising terrorist groups," and "illegal border crossing", the official Xinhua news agency said.
Names given for some of the suspects suggested they were Uighurs, whose homeland is in China-occupied East Turkestan.
The region is often hit by unrest and China has launched a harsh police crackdown on "terrorists" it says are behind the violence and seek independence for the region.
Many Uighurs complain of discrimination -- including denials of passport applications -- as well as controls on their culture and religion. 
A growing number have reportedly attempted to escape China in recent years by crossing borders without documentation, sometimes paying people-traffickers.
Chinese state media have accused border-crossers from East Turkestan of joining terrorist groups, while rights organisations say they are fleeing oppression.
Two were jailed for life, while 43 others received sentences of between four and 15 years.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for exile group the World Uyghur Congress said in a statement: "China's repressive policies cause Uighurs to leave the country to seek safety. 
"Harsh punishments are a way of avoiding taking political responsibility."
Thailand last month deported about 100 Uighur asylum seekers back to China, after sending more than 170 Uighur women and children to Turkey in late June.
The repatriation was condemned by the UN's refugee agency, which said they were at risk of torture or other inhumane treatment.
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
Thailand rejects being transit point for smuggling Syrians to Europe

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
