2015-08~09
http://www.australiannews.net/index.php/sid/236229203

Australian News - China Jails 45 Over Illegal Border Crossings in Northwestern Xinjiang

Forty-five people were tried in 10 separate cases in parts of the region near the border with neighboring countries, including Yili (in Chinese, Ili) prefecture, Aksu, Hotan, Kashgar and Karamay, the English-language said.

It said 18 people, including trafficking gang leaders Wei Hai and Chen Qianggui, had been given sentences ranging from seven years to life imprisonment for helping more than 300 people enter Vietnam.

In the Silk Road city of Kashgar, five people were handed jail terms of eight to 10 years after being found on the border with neighboring Afghanistan and Tajikistan, it said.

According to the paper, the group had been on their way to join the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which China lists as a terrorist organization, and the Taliban.

"The group often gathered together to read books on religious extremism, watch videos featuring violent terrorism, and conspire to migrate to other countries to join jihad," it quoted court documents as saying.

One of the group, Abdulwast Jumar, was sentenced to 10 years' imprisonment, it said.

"After secretly planning to go abroad many times to carry out jihad, they gave two human smugglers from Xinjiang 140,000 yuan to be smuggled abroad," it said.

China has been keen to portray the mostly Muslim, Turkic-speaking Uyghur population as potential terrorists after a wave of violent attacks following deadly ethnic riots in the regional capital, Urumqi, in July 2009.

But many Uyghurs who leave China illegally say they are fleeing systematic persecution by the ruling Chinese Communist Party, which puts strong diplomatic pressure on neighboring countries to return Uyghurs to China rather than treat them as refugees.

"I know that the main reason [Uyghurs] escape across the border is to stay out of jail,'" rights activist Hu Jun, who spent many years in the region, told RFA.

"If they stay here, they are under threat every minute of every day," he said.

"The Chinese Communist Party regime doesn't care whether its citizens live or die, and they have little respect for life, and often kill in an extremely brutal manner," Hu said.

"We should really be asking first of all who the terrorists are, because this evil regime is the root of the terrorism."

"If your life was under threat every day, then wouldn't you want to leave just to stay alive?" he asked.

Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress exile group, agreed.

"By handing out such heavy jail terms, they are trying to pass the buck politically for illegal border crossings," he said.

Sichuan-based Uyghur rights activist Pu Fei said that a major factor driving illegal border crossings by ethnic minorities in China is a lack of legal channels allowing them to leave the country.

"It's not that people are determined to cross the border illegally," Pu said. "It's rather that the government has closed off all the legal channels for them to do so, making it the only way to get out."

He said there is scant evidence to show that the Uyghurs were really on their way to wage jihad.

"On what basis do they claim that they were members of a terrorist organization?" Pu said. "I think the government should show a bare minimum of integrity and tell us."

Pu added: "I don't support illegal border crossings, but if you refuse to issue people with passports, then perhaps that is something that should be discussed."

Local sources told RFA in May that Xinjiang authorities had stopped issuing new passports, and were recalling all existing passports to be held by police, amid a widening security clampdown in the region.

Official media recently reported that the number of new passports among ethnic minority groups has risen, but ethnic minorities said little has changed on the ground.

"If Han Chinese go to apply, they make them wait around a week or two, and then they really do issue it, or they will give you an accurate response," an ethnic minority man who declined to be identified told RFA on Thursday.

"But Tibetans have to wait, and they won't give you any kind of response," he said.

He said the situation for Uyghurs and Tibetans is still pretty much as it always was, in spite of recent news reports claiming that the process had been "simplified."

"It's still very hard for [Uyghurs] to get a passport," he said. "I'm 100 percent sure that they have no intention of giving out passports [to ethnic minorities]."

An official who answered the phone at the Xinjiang regional entry and exit bureau denied the claim.

"Of course they can apply; they can all apply," the official said. "Our policies are the same for everyone in Xinjiang."

China has vowed to crack down on the "three evils" of terrorism, separatism, and religious extremism in Xinjiang, but experts outside China say Beijing has exaggerated the threat from Uyghur "separatists" and that domestic policies are responsible for an upsurge in violence that has left hundreds dead since 2012.

The government has accused the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), which wants an independent homeland for Xinjiang's Uyghurs, of orchestrating attacks in the region, and claims that Uyghurs are being trained in overseas terrorist camps.

Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Melbourne - Formula One's existing safety measures saved Fernando Alonso's life in ...
Sydney - Environmental groups on Monday urged greater action on climate change after the Australian government declared the highest alert level over an epidemic of coral bleaching in the pristine ...
Indian Wells - World No 1 Novak Djokovic won the Indian Wells title on Sunday with a 6-2, 6-0 rout of a hobbled Milos Raonic, taking the crown for the third straight year and a record fifth time ...
Cape Town - South Africa may have to significantly restructure their team if JP Duminy is declared unfit for their key ICC World Twenty20 match against in-form West Indies at Nagpur on Friday (16:00 ...
Sydney - Australian authorities said on Sunday coral bleaching occurring in the World Heritage-listed Great Barrier Reef had become "severe", the highest alert level, as sea temperatures ...
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Melbourne - Formula One will revert to the old system of qualifying for next ...
Paris - England, led by bullocking No 8 Billy Vunipola, confirmed their remarkable transformation from World Cup flops to Six Nations Grand Slam winners when they beat France 31-21 on Saturday.
The ...
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA--(Marketwired - Mar 21, 2016) - Adoption of people-based advertising in Australia is rising quickly as advertisers experience superior performance and return on ad spend from ...
Indian Wells (US), March 21 (IANS) Tennis World No.1 Novak Djokovic believes that male tennis players should earn more money than their female counterparts, considering the fact that more people ...
Canberra, March 21 (IANS) Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull on Monday announded the country will hold an early election in July if the Senate fails to pass laws aimed at curbing union ...
Canberra, March 20 (IANS) Queensland's political system is set for its biggest shake-up in the decades as a referendum for fixed four-year parliamentary terms looks likely to succeed. On Sunday, ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 20 (IANS) Malaysian officials said on Sunday that two pieces of suspected debris of the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 have arrived in Australia for verification. Both ...
Los Angeles, March 20 (IANS) Rapper Iggy Azalea has revealed she considered driving off a cliff to end her life last year after the backlash she received over her career pushed her into a dark zone ...
Bengaluru, March 21 (IANS) Australia beat Bangladesh in the third match of the World Twenty20's Super 10 stage on Monday at the Chinnaswami Stadium, chasing down a 157 run target with three wickets ...
Bengaluru, March 21 (IANS) Bangladesh piled up a score of 156/5 in 20 overs against Australia in the group stage Super 10 match at the World Twenty20 here on Monday. Mahmudullah top scored with a ...
Melbourne, March 21 (IANS) Two-time Formula One world champion Fernando Alonso has admitted he is lucky to be alive after a high-speed crash that forced race officials to momentarily stop the ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Following his maiden win in the Indian Open last weekend, S.S.P. Chawrasia made a jump of 92 places to be 151st in the latest global golf rankings released on Monday. The ...
Melbourne, March 21 (IANS) Reigning Formula 1 champion Lewis Hamilton of team Mercedes said he is expecting a closer fight with team Ferrari in the forthcoming season and has downplayed the ...
Bengaluru, March 20 (IANS) Bangladesh coach Chandika Hathurusingha thinks Mushfiqur Rahim's mindset is getting in his way of returning to form. It has not been long since Mushfiqur was Bangladesh's ...
Bengaluru, March 20 (IANS) The International Cricket Council's (ICC) ban on bowlers Taskin Ahmed and Arafat Sunny for illegal actions in the middle of the World T20 campaign has diminished the ...
Australian News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Free-spirited Australia - a continent offering endless holiday experiences. Explore the colours of the outback, the excitement of the cities and a range of natural wonders you won't find anywhere else. The pearly sails of the Sydney Opera House, jutting out to jewel-blue water and over-reached by the intricate Sydney Harbour Bridge has made Sydney Harbour one of the world's most recognisable images.
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by temporarily easing trade sanctions slapped earlier this month against the Chinese telecom equipment and smartphone maker ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at the state-owned coal and steel companies into low paying jobs. Miners that ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
PRETORIA, South Africa South Africa's ruling party, the African National Congress, on Sunday said it had full confidence in President Jacob Zuma in the wake of mounting allegations of political ...
ISTANBUL A Turkish militant with links to the Islamic State was the suicide bomber who blew himself up killing four foreigners in Istanbul over the weekend, Turkey's Interior Minister Ekfan Ala has ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
LONDON/NEW YORK - US business research provider IHS Inc. is to buy market-data firm Markit to create a $13 billion London-based data and business research provider. The deal joins a wave of ...
© 1999 - 2016 Australian News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)