2015-08~09
http://www.saharasamay.com/nation-news/opinion/676578114/pakistan-desires-to-have-military-confrontation-with-india-over-.html

Pakistan desires to have military confrontation with India over Kashmir
Serbia's Novak Djokovic decisively beat Canada's Milos Raonic 6-2, 6-0 in just an hour and
With the continued ceasefire violations along the Line of Control (LoC) and the international Border in Jammu and Kashmir and the invitation extended to Kashmiri separatist leaders Syed Ali Shah Geelani, Mirwaiz Umer Farooq and Abbas Ansari for talks with Pakistan's National Security Advisor Sartaj Aziz in Delhi during his stay for scheduled NSA talks clearly shows that Pakistan is ready for full confrontation.But ,it is needless to say that Pakistan is facing disintegration over Shia-Sunni conflict.
As the Pakistan is itself  facing worst Taliban insurgency  and cleansing of  Shias,Pakistan's ISI,military and as well as Talibans  are not in favour  of establishing peace in this region particularly with India and infiltration and violations are a part of threat messages for further complicating Kashmir issue.

Infact Pakistan desires to diverge the International community from their sectarian cleansing by creating war like situation in Jammu and Kashmir .The recent terror attacks in Gurdaspur and Udhampur are orchestrated by Pakistan  and it needs no official confirmation from them .
Keeping in view the South Asian security environment , World conflicts, alignments and the power tussle going on in the world for supremacy alongwith Isis or Daesh threat, India should analyse the current situation very carefully  as Pakistan may be playing a bigger game to involve  India in military confrontation .India should weigh all pros and cons  regionally and globally for the best interest of the country  and  be ready to give a befitting reply to Pakistan  for a full and  final solution as earlier done by our former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi .

Upset over the Iran Nuclear deal,Saudi Arabia has been prompting  Pakistan  to accelerate  sectarian violence  against Shia population in Pakistan. The deobandi Wahabi culture exported  by Saudi Arabia had already unleashed  sectarian violence against Shia population in Quetta and other Northern parts of Pakistan. With the passage of time,it has assumed the proportions of sectarian cleansing and even genocide  of Shias .At the centre of this Shia genocide  lies the fact  that Saudi Arabia is concerned  about capturing its leadership  role in the middle East. With  this purpose Saudi Arabia  had already been pouring  petro dollars  in  a cash starved Pakistan.

Paradoxically, it were the Shias who had played a major role in  formation of Pakistan. Muhammad Ali Jinnah,the founder of Pakistan was Ismaili Khoja---a Shia  branch. He contemplated  that after  the establishment  of Pakistan an enlightened Shia  culture will emerge  and prevail  in the country,as they were  already controlling the  administration of the areas under British rule. But the major bulk of Muslim population was uneducated and drove the Pakistan society towards radical Sunni Islam through Mullahs. Now,in the confrontation between Shia- Sunni sects ,the Shia population is actually at the receiving end.
Pakistan faces disintegration by virtue of its own policies

Even the Nawaz Sharif government in Pakistan is silently ignoring to control this phenomenon this phenomenon .Eventually,judiciary and law enforcement agencies  have also failed  to put an end to the these killings of Shias  though attributed  to internal and external forces  that may lead to disintegration of Pakistan,which is being branded as a religious intolerant nation..The atrocities  against Shias have risen to  such a level that UNO and United States commission on international religious freedom (USCIRF) released the 2015 Annual report according to which, “Pakistan represents one of the worst situations in the world for Shias “.Annual Report even expresses concern that, the Pakistani government “failed to protect Shias from sectarian and religiously-motivated violence, and Pakistani authorities have not consistently brought the perpetrators to justice or taken action against societal actors who incite violence”.

Basically ,shias constitute 20% of the Pakistan total population and inhabit the territory of Gilgit-Baltistan,Balochistan mainly around Quetta  and are also dispersed in Sindh and some parts of Punjab.Violence against such a bulk of population  is bound to exacerbate problems for this country.
Gilgit-Baltistan elections and strategic importance  to Pakistan

Gilgit-Baltistan  territory emerged as a prominent problem when Sunni terrorists killed 10  tourists in the year 2012  subsequently followed by attacks  on Shia population. This resulted in collapse of tourism industry  which is the main source of revenue. Eventually economic condition of the people of this territory suffered badly.Strangely Pakistan government also withdrew all types of subsidiaries  and does not provide  even the basic  needs  like education and healthcare.

Gilgit-Baltistan  is of extreme strategic importance  to Pakistan as it contains  30 highest peaks  including K2 and Nanga Parbat with this territory providing the only land route  between Pakistan and China,  that claims  to be its all weather friend  for its own reasons. China eyes this region with the purpose  of securing  its  economic  corridor from Gwader to Xinjiang (Baltistan falls in very close vicinity of Xinjiang )  .

Pakistan intends to use this territory for tourism, as this territory’s unique scenic  and breathtaking features can provide revenue enough to fulfill the needs of the entire  country of Pakistan . But there  is an anomalous  situation  in the sense that Sunni population of POK has been conducting  terrorists activities against  Shia population   of Gilgit-Baltistan badly effecting revenues from this industry  . Even otherwise Pakistan is not desirous  of providing basic rights  of education and healthcare and other  administration facilities  to this Shia population  whereas the people  of this area are vigorously seeking development works.



Recently,Pakistan conducted elections in the disputed Gilgit- Baltistan region to choose a new legislative assembly, soon after India alleged that  this exercise amounted to covering up the “forcible and illegal occupation”of the area.This was the second time Pakistan has held polls to elect an assembly in Gilgit Baltistan also known as the Northern Areas since the region was given near-provincial status in 2009. G-B is  disputed territory  with India because it was a part of the erstwhile princely state of  Jammu and Kashmir ,ruled by the Dogras. While Islamabad considers it separate from the Kashmir under its control,New Delhi sees the region-which is about a third of the size of Jammu and Kashmir as part  and parcel  of the overall dispute and deems any Chinese activity there wholly unacceptable. There is also a vibrant homegrown movement within Gilgit-Baltistan that is demanding absolute autonomy,and even independence from Pakistan..
The region has 600,000 registered voters; its assembly seats are distributed over 7 segments: Skardu, Diamer, Gilgit, Hunza-Nagar,Ghizer, Ganche and Astor.


Considering the strategic importance of G-B, Nawaz Sharif  is planning to  give Gilgit-Baltistan the status of Pakistan's fifth province. It  will thus be a gateway to the natural resources of the Central Asian states and China that is a major source of economic stability for Pakistan. The region is even otherwise rich in gold, uranium and gems.

Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) Prime Minister Chaudhry Abdul Majeed howver warned Islamabad against any attempt to convert Gilgit-Baltistan into a federal province, saying "Gilgit-Baltistan is part and parcel of the state of Jammu and Kashmir. Any attempt to merge it into Pakistan will deal a fatal blow to their stand in the light of UN resolutions envisaging right to self-determination for the Kashmiris."

 


Considering its potential for an energy corridor through Pakistan to the Arabian Sea,China contemplates to build a colossal network of roads,railways with industrial corridors linking kashgar withGwader. The region, straddled to the north by China’s restive Xinjiang Autonomous Region (XAR) on the one side and Afghanistan on the other, forms a central part to the recent agreement for the China Pakistan Economic Corridor, running from Gwadar port in Balochistan to Kashgar.This corridor will provide  China access to Arabian sea  and onwards  to strategic Indian Ocean.

The Gwader Baltistan corridor through Karakorum highway holds great importance  for China as it provides alternative  land route  for transporting energy  resource  from Middle East  to China. This arrangement will dispense with the Malacca strait route  which is entirely controlled by United States  and can disrupt energy  supplies to China at any time..There is speculation that the PLAAF may seek air bases at Gilgit, Chilas, Skardu etc..Pakistan has now deployed  12000 troops  to protect this corridor for the China workers  engaged in the construction work and  in return for this facility China undertakes to make immense investments  in Pakistan and also provide submarines to this country..

But this agreement has the potential of reducing Pakistan to a subsidiary status which may not be in Pakistan’s interests.

Pakistan government is working to eliminate Shia militias that targeted sunnis  to facilitate  the export of Balochistan resources to China . presently, Lahkar e Janghvi is mainly instrumental in killings  of Shias  in Punjab while Sipah-e-Sahaba a former political party, established in the early 1980s is engaged in similar activities in Pakhtunkhwa area.


Thus Pakistan policies run counter  to  its national interests being at odds  with creating sectarian harmony  among Shia-sunni groups . Thus Sooner or later  Pakistan faces disintegration by virtue of its own policies .
super luxury car maker Rolls-Royce is gearing up to tap the country's Billionaires with ne
Coming-of-age drama 'Boyhood' won three of the biggest awards at the BAFTA 2015 but it was
Sunny Leone is seen scorching the screen in the first look of Leela with her bold acts.
Samsung unveiled the Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, S
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian reportedly wants Beyonce to buy a house in her gated commun
Automaker Renault India today said it will roll-out a multi-purpose vehicle 'Lodgy' and a
Pharma tycoon Dilip Shanghvi surpassed Mukesh Ambani as the world's richest Indian with a
When Holi is round the corner, can anyone forget all-time hit Bollywood songs?
In an interim order, the Bombay High Court has restrained the city police from arresting o
Good news for the fans’ of Salman Khan and Deepika Padukone.
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian has posed nude for the upcoming 10th season of 'Keeping Up
Bollywood superstar Akshay Kumar and Actress cum Entrepreneur Shilpa Shetty Kundra have pa
Kashmir witnessed season's heaviest snowfall as the arterial Jammu-Srinagar National Highw
Mexican actress Stephanie Sigman has joined Monica Bellucci and Lea Seydoux as the new bon
Luxury carmaker Mercedes-Benz launched the all-new compact B-Class in both petrol and dies
Bollywood actor Poonam Pandey, gets relief as a local court in Bengaluru quashed a case pe
Automaker Renault India launched the new generation Duster priced at Rs 8.30 lakh (Delhi e
Now Bollywood A-list actors are competing to get nude on-screen.
The 2015 edition of the International Indian Film Academy Awards is set to enthrall Bollyw


India defeated Zimbabwe by six wickets chasing 288 runs target in World Cup Match.
Short filmmaker Ullhas PR on Monday filed a police complaint against Bollywood superstar A
A rare three-feet-long flying snake was spotted in Coimbatore district’s Kalampalayam v
ASUS has created an online game for its ZenFone Zoom smartphone which allows participants