2015-08~09
http://www.news.com.au/world/main-suspect-who-planted-backpack-that-contained-bomb-at-erawan-shrine-in-bangkok-arrested/story-fndir2ev-1227508284045

Main suspect in Erawan Shrine bombing in Bangkok captured
HILLARY Clinton has launched her most pointed attack yet on the Republican frontrunner, calling the prospect of a Trump presidency “unthinkable”.
14:56 PMAP A BYSTANDER saved a baby after a car slid off a pier and plunged into the sea in Ireland, killing five people, including at least two children.
14:48 PMTom Mackay AUSTRALIAN man Tom Mackay was halfway through his 900km walk across India when he came face-to-face with his worst nightmare: A king cobra.
Jakarta's taxi drivers have taken to the streets over ride-hailing apps such as Uber, with some protesters even attacking drivers who refuse to join them.
International charity Water Aid says more than one-tenth of the 650 million people worldwide without access to clean water are in India.
14:03 PMStaff writers ITS huge, curvaceous rear has been likened to the derrière of TV star Kim Kardashian. But jokes aside, the world’s biggest aircraft is soon to be a massive game-changer.
14:02 PMFrank Chung TRUMP’S rallies hit a fresh new low, so bad in fact a police officer described protesters as “the most hateful, evil people I’ve ever seen”.
12:10 PMRod Chester, wires THE FBI says it may have found a way to unlock the iPhone of San Bernardino gunman Syed Farook without Apple’s assistance.
Police investigating a bomb blast at a shrine in Bangkok give themselves a reward of three million baht.
Gao Yan Ping, from Jiangxi province, China, is overcome with emotion at the Police General Hospital in Bangkok, Thailand, after he arrived to claim the body and remains of his daughter and his wife who were killed in the bombing at the Erawan Hindu Shrine. Picture: AP / Sakchai Lalit
A FOREIGN man described as a “main suspect” in the deadly Bangkok bombing has been arrested, with Thai police calling him an important figure in the network that staged the attack.
The man detained near the border with Cambodia on Tuesday is the second foreigner held over the August 17 blast at a religious shrine which killed 20 people, mostly ethnic Chinese tourists. Prime Minister Prayut Chan-O-Cha said the unidentified foreigner was picked up in Sa Kaeo province on the Thai side of the Cambodian border.
Asked whether he is thought to be the person who planted the bomb at the Erawan shrine in Bangkok’s busy Chidlom shopping district, he replied: “We are interrogating. He is a main suspect and a foreigner.”
National police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri said investigators believe the suspect is “an important person in the network” behind the bombing, Thailand’s worst single mass-casualty attack.
The man speaks English, Prawut said, adding he appeared “similar” to a prime suspect captured on security camera footage wearing a yellow shirt and leaving a bag at the scene moments before the blast.
Thai media on Tuesday widely published a photo of a Chinese passport photo of the arrested man.
In the passport, he is named Yusufu Mieraili, 25, from Xinjiang province. Xinjiang is the home province for China's Uighur Muslim minority, the Bangkok Post reported.
The man was detained around noon trying to cross into Cambodia from the Thai countryside, away from towns or roads.
DNA samples were being taken from the man, the spokesman added, to see if they match any locations searched by police.
Picture of apprehended main suspect in #BangkokBlast at the Thai-Camb. border. Reports say he’s being flown to BKK pic.twitter.com/pcHpoGaugQ
Thai police on Monday said they found bomb-making materials in a second apartment following the arrest of another foreign suspect.
Speculation has grown that the suspect might be part of a group seeking to avenge Thailand’s forced repatriation of ethnic Uighurs to China in July. Prayuth on Monday suggested the bombers might have been involved in smuggling Uighurs out of China.
Uighurs are related to Turks, and Turkey is home to a large Uighur community.
The Erawan Shrine is especially popular with Chinese tourists, feeding the idea that it could be a target for people who believe the Uighurs are oppressed by China’s government.
Beijing says some Uighurs are Islamist terrorists, and among them is a group that has been smuggled out of China to join Islamic State fighters in Syria.
The man held in Cambodia is believed to be the main suspect in a bombing that killed 20 people at the Erawan shrine in Bangkok on Monday, August 17, 2015. Picture: Royal Thai Police via APSource:AP
Prayuth said officials knew from their investigation that people involved in the bombing were about to flee the country and had traced the man to Aranyaprathet district in Sa Kaeo, a major crossing point to Cambodia. He was bound for Phnom Penh.
The prime minister described the man as a piece in a jigsaw puzzle that would connect various parts of the case, which included a bombing the day after the shrine blast that exploded harmlessly in the river next to a busy Bangkok pier.
Local media is broadcasting passport picture of the arrested suspect, stating Chinese nationality - pic.twitter.com/ZU5xlOOCZW
Fresh arrest warrants are also out for three new suspects for possessing bomb-making material.
One was unnamed but the other two were identified as Ahmet Bozaglan and Ali Jolan, although Prawut did not give their nationalities.
Thai police detained a foreigner on Saturday at a flat in a Bangkok suburb, allegedly in possession of bomb-making paraphernalia and dozens of fake Turkish passports.
He is in military custody but has not been publicly identified.
A 26-year-old Thai Muslim woman called Wanna Suansan was named on Monday on another arrest warrant.
Police say she rented a separate flat in the city suburbs where bomb-making equipment was also found.
Thai authorities confirmed on Tuesday that Wanna is overseas but refused to say where.
Damage caused by the bomb blast is seen on the Brahma statue at the reopened Erawan shrine, the popular tourist site where 20 people were killed on August 17, in Bangkok. Picture: AFP / Christophe ArchambaultSource:AFP
Late on Monday AFP tracked down her number and a woman answering that name took the phone call, saying she was living in the Turkish city of Kayseri with her husband.
She denied involvement in the blast, saying she had not visited the flat where the bomb-making equipment was found for around a year.
Instead, she said it had been rented to a friend of her husband.
News.com.au's Privacy Policy includes important information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information (including to provide you with targeted content and advertising based on your online activities). It explains that if you do not provide us with information we have requested from you, we may not be able to provide you with the goods and services you require. It also explains how you can access or seek correction of your personal information, how you can complain about a breach of the Australian Privacy Principles and how we will deal with a complaint of that nature.
A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. Find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out.
News Limited Copyright © . All times on this site are AEDT (GMT +11).