2015-08~09
http://asiancorrespondent.com/135268/police-find-fingerprint-match-in-bangkok-bombing-investigation/

Police find fingerprint match in Bangkok bombing investigation - Asian Correspondent
Police prepare to transport bombing suspect to Bangkok after he was caught attempting to cross the border into Cambodia. Image via Twitter.
Thai police say the fingerprints of a foreign man arrested at Thailand’s border with Cambodia match those they found on a bottle containing bomb-making material.
The bottle was among many items seized during a raid Saturday of an apartment on the outskirts of Bangkok where another suspect was arrested as part of the investigation into the deadly Aug. 17 bombing at the Erawan shrine.
Both suspects are being interrogated by the military and have not yet been charged.
National police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri said Wednesday that the man arrested at the border on Tuesday “is important and is related to or conspired with people” behind the bombing that killed 20 people and wounded more than 120.
He added that authorities believe he was also involved in the bomb attack at Saphan Taksin on Aug. 18.
National police chief Prawut Thavornsiri identied the man as Emrah Davutoglu. He is facing charges of conspiracy to possess unauthorized war materials.
Wednesday’s arrest warrant is the eight issued by Thai authorities in connection with the Aug. 17 bombing of a central Bangkok shrine, which left 20 people dead and more than 120 wounded.
Prawut says that Davutoglu is believed to have been “part of a network that provided accommodation” to those connected with the bombing.
Earlier this week, police issued an arrest warrant for his wife, Thai national Wanna Suansan, whose name was on the lease of an apartment that police raided over the weekend and discovered bomb-making materials.
Wanna had told police that she is in Turkey and had nothing to do with the bombing and wants to clear her name.
Prawut says Wanna had agreed to come back to Thailand to be questioned by police but then said “she has to think about it.”
Meanwhile, national deputy police chief, Chakthip Chaijinda, says the suspect arrested at the border speaks Turkish, which requires a translator.
He did not say whether a translator has been brought in or if the Turkish Embassy has been approached.
Speculation has grown that the suspect might be part of a group seeking to avenge Thailand’s forced repatriation of ethnic Uighurs to China in July.
Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha on Monday linked the two theories, suggesting the bombers might have been involved in smuggling Uighurs out of China.
Uighurs are related to Turks, and Turkey is home to a large Uighur community. The Erawan shrine is especially popular with Chinese tourists, feeding the idea that it could be a target for people who believe the Uighurs are oppressed by China’s government.
Authorities also announced Wednesday that all hotel and guesthouse owners, as well as the owners of rented apartments, most inform immigration officials of any foreigners staying there within 24 hours of arrival.
Topics covered: Bangkok blast Bangkok bombing Bangkok bombing latest Thailand