2015-08~09
http://www.spacewar.com/reports/Pakistan_air_strikes_kill_31_militants_in_tribal_areas_military_999.html

Pakistan air strikes kill 31 militants in tribal areas: military


President Mamnoon Hussain told his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping that recent anti-terror operations struck against members of the East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM).


The group -- whose existence in a significant form is widely disputed by experts -- is said to support creating an independent state in China's Xinjiang region, which has a border with Pakistan.


Xinjiang -- the homeland of China's 10 million Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking, mostly Muslim minority -- is sporadically hit by deadly violence.


An operation against "extremist and terrorism" had been "successful in eradicating the terrorism from our country", Hussain told Xi at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.


"It has also been very helpful in eliminating the ETIM element from our country and I think almost all the ETIM people in our country have been eliminated. Maybe, if they are there, there should be very few."


China regularly accuses what it says are exiled Uighur separatist groups such as ETIM of being behind attacks in Xinjiang, which has seen a wave of unrest.


Chinese authorities have also accused scores of Uighurs who have fled the country of attempting to train with extremists in Syria and eventually return to Xinjiang to wage jihad.


But many experts doubt the existence of ETIM, pointing out that although China frequently blames the group for radicalising Uighurs, it has yet to provide any evidence that outside organisations were involved in attacks.


 Pakistan's military on Wednesday said it had killed at least 31 militants in air strikes in northwest Pakistan, near the Afghan border.


It said in a brief statement that militant hideouts were targeted in the Kyber and Shawal tribal districts, with 14 "terrorists" killed in Khyber and 17 killed in Shawal.


The death toll could not be independently verified as the conflict zone is remote and off-limits to journalists.


Pakistan has been battling a homegrown Islamist insurgency for over a decade.


Officials say more than 2,800 militants have been killed since the launch of the latest offensive.


Pakistan has intensified air strikes and ground attacks, as well as raids on militant hideouts, since December, when a Taliban attack on a school left more than 150 people dead, mostly schoolchildren.


Authorities have claimed major successes in the offensive, and say they have broken the backbone of the militants. Yet scattered attacks still take place in the country, though they are fewer in number and of a lesser intensity than in previous years.

Pakistan army sentences five militants to deathIslamabad (AFP) Sept 2, 2015 -
 Pakistan's army Wednesday announced the death penalty for five militants linked to a series of terrorist attack across the country, the latest terror-related sentencing by the controversial military courts.


The men were convicted by military courts established as part of a crackdown on militancy following a massacre at a school in the northwest city of Peshawar on December 16 last year, in which more than 150 people, mostly children, were killed.


Parliament approved the use of the courts for the next two years, and the Supreme Court endorsed the move last month, rejecting claims it was unconstitutional.


The army chief "confirms death sentence of another 5 hard core terrorists involved in killings (of a) Lahore advocate, Quetta sectarian killing," military spokesman Major General Asim Bajwa said in a brief tweet, without giving further details.


The militants were also reportedly involved in several other incidents including a jail break in northwestern town of Bannu in 2012 and attack on a girls school and a polio team in Khyber tribal region.


The army announced the first verdicts and sentences from the new courts in April. Six militants were condemned to death and another jailed for life, all on terrorism charges, though scant details of the offences and trials were given.


On August 13, it announced death sentences for seven more militants for their involvement in the Peshawar school massacre and an attack on a bus of the minority Shiite Ismaili community.