2015-08~09
http://21stcenturywire.com/2015/09/01/god-complex-is-glenn-beck-clinically-insane/

‘God Complex’: Is Glenn Beck Clinically Insane?
Is right-wing media mogul Glenn Beck mentally ill, or even clinically insane?
Clearly, this $90 million per year right-wing media tycoon and founder of The Blaze, seems to be wrestling with his own ‘God Complex‘.
In recent months, Beck has become increasingly more and more like an incoherent TV evangelist rather than an actual political pundit. He routinely evokes “God’s judgement” in relation to any news event with his dispensationalist ‘End Times’ baffoonery, warning that “God has abandoned this country”, and has stopped just short of actually passing a megalomanic’s final point of no return: claiming that God is speaking directly to him (as with George W. Bush). There’s still time yet, Glenn.
As he ascends to ever new heights of demagoguery, Beck then becomes the master manipulator, regularly conjuring up tears on air in order to garner sympathy from crowds. For his faithful flock, however, salvation can always be achieved by buying his many survivalist products.
WARNING: Beck’s attempt to fuse together evangelical religion with reactionary right-wing politics has been used throughout history by clever social engineers in order to soften-up the population for a fascist phase.
The shooting in Virginia has rocked the nation’s conscious but it has done much more to Glenn Beck.
The conservative commentator believes that the shooting is a last warning from God before he brings about the end times. Cenk Uygur, host of The Young Turks, delivers his Final Judgment on Glenn Beck’s sanity.
Do you think Glenn Beck has lost it? Is he insane or just exploiting a tragedy? Let us know in the comments below.
READ MORE FASCISM NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire Fascist Files
You just don’t get the camera rollin’ shove a mic in someone’s face and expect them to break out the tears like it’s nothing.
If it was easy, everyone would do it!
What skill and an intuitive connection to the Almighty the rest of us wish we had!
I haven’t seen tears like that since Jimmy Swaggert!
Swaggert, Beck, Alex Jones – they all play the same game by try to convince their flock that they are ‘different’ than the others. They are all snake oil salesmen of the modern age.
caught having sex with a prostitute…like so many of his brethren. ha!
buy my Glenn Beck powdered patriot spit and vaporub tears, suckers!
Many sociopaths are drawn to religion, and TV journalism as well. “God” is the ultimate power structure for them, so “God” speaking directly to Beck is only natural. Notice the reference to Beck’s calling on “a rabbi in Israel” for consultation. What the heck do Jews have to do with the second coming of Christ?
As for Cenk Uygur, host of The Young Turks, there is some definite irony here. The Young Turks were actually formed from the Donmeh, crypto-Jews, who infiltrated Islam, after their leader, Sabbatai Sevi, the supposed Jewish Messiah who had over 1 million followers in the 17th century, was booted out of Jerusalem after his ill-fated visit there, by the power elite, and then fled to Turkey. The Caliph in Turkey were none to pleased and forced Sabbatai Sevi to convert to Islam…or die. He converted and so did a portion of his followers. They became known as the Donmeh, who later became known as the “Young Turks”, who later went on to murder 1.5 million people, including 1 million Christians,in what is known as the Armenian Genocide. Wow! what a surprise!
Cenk Uygur denied the Armenian Genocide altogether, but now begrudgingly
admits “there was some violence committed”. Young Turks- such a highly subversive name.
They just laugh at us, the ignorant goyim. How much longer will people place faith in such obvious insanity and outright manipulation?
Perhaps he`s just reflexion of the insanity that is modern USA. Which passed the point of no return some years ago. The place is a scourge to the rest of the world.
it is highly possible that Glenn Beck is spot on.
Ever since he received that false prophetic “mantle” from another false and lying prophet, he has been completely deceived and working tirelessly to bring a one world govt. agenda to America. I do believe it is causing him to derail into utter madness.
David Barton, the Texas evangelist, is the Vice Chair of Mercury One Charities (Beck’s operation – including teddy bears and soccer balls effort). Barton also is the head of 2 Cruz PAC’s which mostly use Mercer family money.
Beck attacks Trump while leaving Cruz clean and able to hide behind the “Christianity”. It’s all sleazy and makes me think less of Cruz.
Interesting that Beck has always claimed to be a Mormon, yet caters to the evangelical dispensationalists. Which is he? Or is his mind just a muddled mess? I suspect it’s the latter.
COPYRIGHT © 2009-2016 · 21ST CENTURY WIRE · ALL RIGHTS RESERVED WORLDWIDE