2015-08~09
http://www.shanghaidaily.com/national/Swift-action-needed-in-Xinjiangs-drugs-fight-says-official/shdaily.shtml

Swift action needed in Xinjiang’s drugs fight, says official | Shanghai Daily
Follow us @  | Shanghai Call Center: 962288 |  Mobile Version  |  THU, APR 18, 2013
Police in Xinjiang said yesterday that drug-related cases in the northwestern region are on the rise and authorities need to act swiftly to counteract the problem.
“Faced with rising drug cases, the police launched several special operations targeting drug trafficking, drug use, online drug sales and mailed drugs,” said Xiong Xuanguo, director of an anti-drug commission in Xinjiang.
Xiong said police seized 1.12 tons of drugs between January to August in “hard and quick battles against drugs.” They broke 1,413 drug cases, up 11 percent from a year earlier, and arrested 1,622 suspects, up 19 percent from last year.
Police also found 9,506 drug users, half of whom were new addicts. The other half had relapsed. A total of 2,850 drug users were sent to rehab centers, and about half of them had been rehabilitated, he added.
“We need to intensify management of the growing number of drug users, provide them with medical and social support. Police will also help them look for jobs and resume normal life,” he added.
The Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region faces growing threats by drugs originating in the Golden Crescent area, a major source of drugs along the borders of Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iran.
Police have noted a trend of drug smuggling via and into Xinjiang in the past few years.
Last year, a cross-border drug campaign, organized by China and Tajikistan, led to the arrest of 38 suspects, and a seizure of 181 kilograms of drugs, including heroin, opium, marijuana and methamphetamine.
Kindly remind you that you have reached your weekly limit of 20 free stories.
Kindly remind you that your 1-week free trial has expired. Thank you for your interest in our products.
To continue using full functionality of our site, please subscribe below.

Education, 
 Entertainment and culture, Environment,
 Expat community, 
 Health and science, Society, 
 In-depth, Services...

Art and culture, 
 Community, Education, 
 Animal planet, Travel...

Book, City Scene,
 Film, Home and design,
 Now and Then, Style,
 Technology, The Week...

 Copyright © 1999- Shanghai Daily. All rights reserved.Preferably
 viewed with Internet Explorer 8 or newer browsers.
