2015-08~09
http://www.ww4report.com/node/14310

Uighur militants named in Bangkok blast | World War 4 Report
WW4R News Service
Bill Weinberg's Blog
Weekly News Update on the Americas
New Jewish Resistance
WW4 Report receives no foundation funding. Our continued work depends on our readers:
Thailand's national police authorities on Sept. 15 indicated that last month's deadly Erawan Shrine attack was carried out by Uighur militants. A Chinese national arrested by Thai police, Yusufu Meraili, is said to be from Xinjiang region, indicating he is likely an ethnic Uighur. Also arrested is Abdul Tawab, a Pakistani national who apparently ran a human trafficking ring that catered to Uighurs attempting to reach Turkey. Abudusataer Abudureheman AKA "Ishan," named as mastermind of the attack, is also said to be from Xinjiang, and is believed to have fled to Turkey. Thai authorities say several other suspects are Turks, who have ethnic and cultural links to the Uighurs. Many Turkish nationalists have vocally embraced the Uighur cause. Warrants have been issued for a Thai woman and her Turkish husband, both believed to be in Turkey, and two other Turkish men. Malaysia has made three arrests in the case—two Malaysians and a Pakistani man. Most of the 20 killed in the attack were ethnic Chinese tourists. Suspicion fell on Uighur militants as the bombing came just weeks after Thailand deported 109 Uighurs back to China, their heads covered in hoods. The move was widely criticized by rights groups, who said the Uighurs were could face persecution in China. If the claims are correct, this would be the first known Uighur terrorist attack outside China. No one has yet claimed responsibility. (Bangkok Post, Sept. 17; NYT, Sept. 15; BBC News, Sept. 14)
A Thailand military court on Nov. 24 indicted two foreigners who authorities believe were involved in the Erawan Shrine bombing last August. The two men from the western China's Xinjiang region have been charged with 10 counts, including conspiracy to explode bombs and to commit premeditated murder. An arrest warrant was issued in August after a sketch from a security video was created to illustrate a foreign man thought to be the bomber who targeted and bombed the Erawan Shrine. The man in the video left a backpack at the shrine 15 minutes before the explosion. It is believed that one of the men in custody is the bomber illustrated from the sketch. (Jurist)