2015-08~09
http://china.org.cn/world/Off_the_Wire/2015-09/30/content_36719582.htm

Spotlight: Kazakhs applaud rapid development of China's Xinjiang - China.org.cn
In the eyes of Kazakh people,
China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region that adjoins Kazakhstan
has enjoyed a rapid social development.
According to Ulan, a university
professor, taken into consideration of the natural environment and
lower commodity and housing prices, people's living condition in
many cities in Xinjiang is even better than metropolises like
Beijing and Shanghai.
The well-established material
supply system in Xinjiang involves highways, railroads and
airlines, which improved the lives of the people residing in
Xinjiang, Ulan told Xinhua.
"People can buy whatever they want
now, even if they live in small towns," Ulan said as he used to
live in Shihezi city in northern Xinjiang.
He added that Xinjiang has entered
the fast lane of social development with the step-by-step
implementation of the Silk Road Economic Belt and China's
development strategies of western regions.
Magina, who has studied in Xinjiang
Normal University, also praised the rapid development and the
friendly environment among various ethnic groups of Han, Uygur,
Kirgiz, Kazak, Uzbek, among others.
"Life there changed with each
passing day," she said while recalling her days in Xinjiang.
"The Chinese government invested
huge amount of money and human resources into the development of
Xinjiang," she explained.
Magina was also impressed by the
friendly and harmonious interaction among different ethnic groups
in the region. "I always tell my personal experience to many people
who have biases toward Xinjiang and China."
Kuleshov Vladimir, professor at the
Almaty Management University, shared the same feelings with Magina,
saying that every ethnic language, culture and custom are respected
and protected in the autonomous region.
According to Kuleshov, who has been
to various cities in Xinjiang for seminars and researches, the
region is living up to the aspiration of the Chinese Dream
championed by Chinese President Xi Jinping.
According to official data released
by Xinjiang's Statistic Bureau, the region has maintained a
double-digit GDP growth rate since 2010.
With an average annual GDP increase
of hundreds of billions U.S. dollars, Xinjiang's average annual
growth rate reached 11.1 percent, which represented the most rapid
economic growth and the best time of Xinjiang's economic
development since China adopted the reform and opening up
policy.
It is wise for the Chinese
government to enact economic policies suitable for local
conditions, Kuleshov stressed, adding that the pragmatic measures
led to modern industrialization and created lots of jobs for local
people, which promoted the living standard.
"The growth rate of Xinjiang is
comparable to, or even faster than, some coastal regions in China,"
Kuleshov said, adding that the rate has also exceeded many other
countries in the world.
He believed that Xinjiang would
take the opportunities brought by the Silk Road Economic Belt
initiative and play a pivotal role in the common development of
China and Central Asian countries. Endi