2015-08~09
http://www.scmp.com/news/asia/southeast-asia/article/1850705/thai-police-trail-backpack-bomber-who-killed-20-bangkok

Thai police on trail of backpack bomber who killed 20 in Bangkok shrine blast | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
As images reveal man in yellow T-shirt as chief suspect behind Bangkok blast, Hong Kong mourns two of its own who were among the 20 killed
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Less than 24 hours after a deadly blast gutted the core of central Bangkok, Thai police said last night that they believed a man wearing a yellow T-shirt and carrying a backpack had set off the explosion that killed 20 people and injured 125.
Their initial findings came as Hong Kong reeled in shock that two of its own - young female friends enjoying their summer break in the hip tourist spot - were among the dead.
The carnage also claimed the lives of four mainlanders while around 20 suffered injuries, including a 10-year-old girl whom Thai media reported was in a coma. With such casualty figures, Monday's attack outside the Erawan Shrine beloved by East Asians was one of the deadliest in recent years for Chinese nationals on foreign soil.
Earlier in the day, National Police Chief Somyot Pumpanmuang said that police were "not ruling out anything, including Thai politics and the conflict of ethnic Uygurs who, before this, Thailand sent back to China".
Later, when police released photos of the man, with and without the backpack, based on images taken from closed-circuit video at the shrine minutes before the bombing, police spokesman Prawut Tharvornsiri said: "The yellow shirt guy is not just the suspect. He is the bomber."
A Hong Kong survivor, Jaral Jintara, was among those on the scene as the suspect was about to unleash terror.
READ MORE: Did this Hong Kong woman see the bomber? Bangkok blast survivor speaks from hospital bed
"I had just finished visiting the Erawan Shrine with my husband. We came out of the shrine and were waiting for the traffic lights to change so we could cross the road," she told the South China Morning Post from her hospital bed.
The traffic lights turned and pedestrians started crossing the road. Jaral then saw a motorcycle speeding in front of her and exploding outside the shrine.
"I was bleeding so badly at that point I thought I would die," said Jaral, who received stitches to her head and legs. Her husband was treated at another hospital.
Two Hong Kong women - Vivian Chan Wing-Yan, 19, who was studying law in Britain, and her friend Arcadia Pang Wan-chee, 24, a former student at the Institute of Vocational Education - were not so lucky.
READ MORE: David Cameron leads tributes to Hong Kong law student, 19, killed in Bangkok bomb blast
Staff at Bangkok Metropolitan Administration General Hospital said Chan died at around 10pm on Monday. "She suffered injuries to the heart, liver and abdomen," a nurse said, showing the Post the bag and accessories Chan left behind.
Friends described Chan, a food blogger, as "cheerful and friendly", while Pang was remembered as a gentle and quiet but friendly person. Their families are in Bangkok with Immigration Department officials.
Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha called the explosion "the worst incident that has ever happened in Thailand", saying the perpetrators "want to destroy our economy, our tourism".
The improvised explosive device scattered body parts, spattered blood, blasted windows and burned motorbikes to their bare metal. Bangkok was rocked again yesterday when another explosive device blew up at a ferry pier, but no one was hurt.
Other foreign victims include two Malaysians, one Indonesian and a Singaporean.
The blast comes at a sensitive time for Thailand, which has been riven for a decade by a sometimes violent struggle for power between political factions in Bangkok. An interim parliament hand-picked by a junta that seized power in a 2014 coup is due to vote on a draft constitution next month.
Tourism makes up 10 per cent of the economy, with 4.6 million mainlanders and nearly half a million Hongkongers visiting Thailand last year.
As the city tried to pick up the pieces yesterday, Thais were out in force offering help to victims. Among them was Paween Huang, 30, a Chinese who grew up there, offering interpreting services to Chinese families. At Chulalongkorn Hospital, she said: "We should stand united."