2015-08~09
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3232097/Thai-police-release-photo-suspected-Uighur-terrorist-known-Ishan-accused-masterminding-deadly-Bangkok-bombing-left-20-people-dead.html

Thai police release photo of Uighur terrorist accused of Bangkok shrine bombing | Daily Mail Online

Published:
 14:04 EST, 12 September 2015

 | 
Updated:
 18:35 EST, 12 September 2015


Thai police have released a photograph of the man suspected of masterminding the Bangkok blasting last month which left 20 people dead.
Police confirmed the new suspect is called Abudusataer Abudureheman or 'Ishan' and is believed to be of Uighur ethnicity.
Thai authorities are already holding two foreign men in custody over the attack. It is the first time the police have publicly identified the suspect as a member of the Chinese minority group. 
Police confirmed the main suspect is called Abudusataer Abudureheman or 'Ishan' and is believed to be of 'Uighur' ethnicity
The majority of the 20 people killed in the bomb blast were Chinese tourists, sparking rumours that the masterminds of the attack may have links to Xinjiang province
Thai police confirmed that the suspect, who left Thailand the day before the blast, is wanted on the charge of 'jointly possessing illegal military supplies'. 
In a statement released on Saturday, Thai immigration police said: 'According to security agencies, Ishan is the one who plotted, ordered, and funded the attack.'
The hunt for the perpetrators of the bomb blast has been characterised by confusing and at times contradictory statements from Thai officials. 
One of the detained suspects, Yusufu Mieraili, was arrested last month with a Chinese passport registering his birthplace as Xinjiang - the region home to some 10 million of the Uighur minority
Yusufu Mieraili jokes with Thai police officers whilst doing a crime re-enactment outside a shopping center opposite the Erawan shrine, Bangkok
Many of the victims at the shrine bombing were ethnic Chinese tourists, leading to early suggestions from analysts that the attack may be linked to the violent Uighur separatist group in the Chinese province of Xinjiang.
Uighurs have long-accused Beijing of religious and cultural repression with scores believed to have fled in recent years, often heading to Turkey via Southeast Asia.
Thailand's deportation of 109 Uighur refugees to China in July sparked violent protests in Turkey, where nationalist hardliners see the minority as part of a global Turkic-speaking family.
Thai authorities are already holding two foreign men in custody over the attack. It is the first time the police have publicly identified the suspect as a member of the Chinese minority group
Hundreds of people gathered in the Erawan Shrine after it was re-opened, allowing friends and relatives to pay their respects
The warrant issued Saturday is the 12th over the unprecedented attack on the Thai capital.
One of the detained suspects, Yusufu Mieraili, was arrested last month with a Chinese passport registering his birthplace as Xinjiang - the region home to some 10 million of the Uighur minority.
The other detained suspect, Adem Karadag, was arrested at a Bangkok flat in possession of bomb-making material and scores of fake Turkish passports.
Last Thursday, Bangladesh police confirmed a Bangkok blast suspect had arrived in Bangladesh on August 16 before flying out to Beijing on August 30.
However, local Thai media reports have said the suspect flew on to Turkey rather than China.

 The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.

Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group