2015-08~09
http://www.todayonline.com/world/asia/malaysia-detains-six-over-human-trafficking-links-bangkok-bomber

Malaysia detains six over human trafficking links to Bangkok bomber | TODAYonline
KUALA LUMPUR — Malaysia has arrested six people suspected of being part of a human trafficking network and who may have helped a bomber who killed 20 people at a Bangkok shrine last month escape from Thailand, the police said yesterday.
The suspects joined two people already in Malaysian detention who may have helped the bomber, who Thai police said was a foreigner of unknown identity, flee across southern Thailand’s border into Malaysia, police in both countries said.
Malaysian Deputy Police Chief Noor Rashid Ibrahim told media that of the eight detained so far, four were Malaysians suspected of involvement in human trafficking, who may have helped foreign nationals involved in the Bangkok bombing enter Malaysia.
“So far, we have arrested eight people,” said Mr Noor Rashid. “Four of them are foreign nationals, and the locals who were arrested were involved in ‘human trafficking’ (and) brought these foreign nationals from Thailand into the country.”
He added: “Four of the eight are foreigners, I believe Uighurs, and they have been detained, but we haven’t been able to verify if they’re linked to the events in Thailand, as there hasn’t been any confession.
“So, we’re detaining them and Thai authorities also know about the arrests to help them further their investigations.”
He added that so far there was “no concrete evidence” to show the suspects’ direct involvement with the Bangkok blast.
The Aug 17 blast in Bangkok ripped through a Hindu shrine near the busy Ratchaprasong intersection, killing 20 people, including a Singaporean. More than 100 people were wounded.
Thai police have made two arrests over the Aug 17 blast. The chief suspect is a man in a yellow shirt caught on security camera footage leaving a backpack at the shrine. He was implicated by a man in Thai detention who admitted to delivering the bag containing the bomb to him, police say.
Malaysia’s arrests are the latest pieces in a puzzle pointing toward a connection to Uighurs that Thai authorities have sought to play down.