2015-08~09
http://dailymailnews.com/2015/08/12/china-eurasia-trade-expo/

China-Eurasia Trade Expo
The 2015 EURASIA Commodity and Trade Expo (EACT) is being held in China’s province Xinjiang’s capital Urumqi from August 12 to16. The event is coinciding with the 60th anniversary of the founding of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region. The theme for this year’s gala event is “Building Silk Road Business Platform, Advancing Mutually-beneficial Cooperation between Asian and European Industries”. The Expo has been set under the principles of “fewness, refinement and specialization”, while its orientation is: “Connecting the East, Exporting to the West, Localizing the Industry”. EACT Expo 2015 is displaying the following exhibition disciplines: Textile & Garments Industry, Agricultural Product & Food, Xinjiang Fine Wine, Jewelry & Jade & Handicraft and Overseas Exquisite Products.
Under the aegis of Textile & Garments Industry, the Expo planners have invited major textile & apparel enterprises, park enterprises and branded enterprises from key domestic textile & apparel provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities to participate, and organize Xinjiang’s superior textile & apparel enterprises and products for participation. They have endeavoured to attract both domestic and overseas purchasers by intensifying investment promotion, bringing in competitive textile & apparel enterprises to drive employment, developing Asian and European markets, and expanding export. The aim is to build Xinjiang into a major national and international textile & apparel industry base, trade and logistics center as well as a national demonstration area for sustainable development of the textile & apparel industry.
In this field, the major participants besides China are India, Iran, Italy and Pakistan, who will be promoting and displaying clothes, costume accessories and fittings, home textile, knitted products, textile fabrics and accessories, carpets and pendants, textile & apparel machinery.
In the Agricultural Product & Food Exhibition, responsibility for the management of the Expo has been delegated to Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region’s Department of Agriculture, Department of Forestry, Department of Animal Husbandry and Federation of Supply and Marketing Cooperatives, China Chamber of Commerce of Foodstuffs and Native Produce, Xinjiang International Expo Administration, Bureau of Agricultural Industrialization Development of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Xinjiang Eurasia International Expo Co., Ltd. These key organizations’ orientation is promoting domestic sales through west-to-east transfer of products. They have gone to great length to present agricultural products and food from Xinjiang and the mainland, to create a domestic and international platform of characteristic agricultural product marketing and agricultural product e-commerce matchmaking for Xinjiang and the rest of the country. They have aspired to engage Xinjiang’s and the mainland’s manufacturers of quality agricultural products, food, green agricultural products, agricultural products with geographical indications and wine, as well as industrial associations engaged in agricultural product, food and wine production, processing and trade to participate. International manufacturers of renowned, fine and characteristic agricultural products and food as well as relevant industrial associations are participating, thereby promoting international agricultural cooperation and exchange. Mainland purchasers such as agricultural product wholesale markets, logistics enterprises and chain superstores for negotiation and purchase are expanding the domestic sales and export of Xinjiang’s agricultural products. International participants under this category include Russia as well as Central, West and South Asian countries.
107 booths have been set up for Jewelry, Jade & Handicraft Exhibition, sponsored by China-Eurasia Expo Secretariat, Bureau of Geology & Mineral Resources of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. Responsibility for organizing this sector has been assumed by the Xinjiang International Expo Administration, Xinjiang Gems & Jewelry Trade Association, Xinjiang Eurasia International Expo Co., Ltd. Their target clients are the Xinjiang population as well as the international participants and visitors. In this high value sector, prefectures and cities such as Hetian, Bayingolin Mongol as well as the autonomous regions of Kramay and Altay, Manas County, Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture, provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities such as Liaoning, Shaanxi, Henan, Guangxi, Yunnan, Fujian, Qinghai and Shenzhen, Central, West and South Asian countries, as well as regions such as Taiwan and Hong Kong are participating. Their aim is to promote Xinjiang’s jade products including jewelry, colored gems, jade, pearl, natural treasure and encourage Xinjiang’s jade culture, and facilitate cultural exchanges and cooperation between domestic provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities, and foreign countries, thus creating a consumption and appreciation platform for the public.
The final aspect of the Expo comprises Overseas Exquisite Product Exhibition, which has been sponsored by China-Eurasia Expo Secretariat, Trade Development Bureau of Ministry of Commerce, Asian and European investment and trade promotion agencies such as Hong Kong Trade Development Council, China-Britain Business Council and Korea Promotion Agency. Its aim is tapping opportunities and pioneering fashion. This colorful facet is introducing fine products from countries along the Silk Road Economic Belt as well as Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan and further promoting global fashion trends, and pioneering public fashion.
EACT will enhance the prestige of Xinjiang, put it firmly on the map of the world and showcase the new Silk Road Project for Eurasian trade, commerce and connectivity envisaged by China.  Xinjiang has been hosting trade expos in the past, but this year, the EACT surpasses all previous presentations and is promised to be a treat for both the exhibitors and the visitors.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Special coverage on China's Two Party Sessions by The Daily Mail - People's Daily