2015-08~09
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/thailand/11866250/Thailand-links-Bangkok-shrine-bomb-to-Chinese-Uighurs-for-first-time.html

Thailand links Bangkok shrine bomb to Chinese Uighurs for first time - Telegraph
Thailand’s police chief has linked the Bangkok shrine bomb to Chinese Uighur Muslims for the first time, but insisted the atrocity was a revenge attack by a criminal gang rather than terrorism.
Somyot Pumpanmuang blamed last month's deadly bombing on a people smuggling network that trafficked Uighurs and was angered by Thailand's recent crackdown on their trade.
He ruled out Thailand's controversial forced deportation in July of 109 Uighur men to China, despite criticism that Uighurs faced persecution in the country, as a possible motive for the attack.
Thai junta officials have been at pains to avoid mentioning a possible Uighur connection – or any link to terrorism – to avoid frictions with their Chinese allies and to protect the lucrative tourism business.
But a series of arrests and breakthroughs have pointed strongly to a link to the Uighurs and to Turkey. The Uighurs are an ethnic Turkic people living in China’s restive western Xinjiang province and have militant support in extreme Turkish nationalist circles.
In the latest development, the lawyer for one of two foreign suspects detained in Thailand confirmed that his client was a Chinese Uighur. The other man in custody was carrying a Chinese passport issued in Xinjiang.
Thai police issued this photofit at the time of the bombing  Photo: EPA
Thailand’s attempts to blame the worst such atrocity in its history on a disgruntled human traffickers have been widely dismissed by security analysts, who note that the usual modus operandi for a criminal gang is to lay low during a crackdown rather than commit a murderous bombing with a sophisticated device.
The pipe-bomb laced with ballbearings planted at the Erawan shrine on August 17 killed 20 people, mostly ethnic Chinese visitors from other Asian countries.
The targeting of the shrine, which is known to be popular with Thais and Chinese, raised early speculation about a Uighur link as militant hardliners would have a grudge against Thais and Chinese.
A series of arrests and warrants for suspects with Turkish associations has fuelled that belief. On Monday, Thailand said that the suspected mastermind, believed to be a Uighur, had fled to Turkey, although Turkish officials raised doubts about the reports.
• Bangkok shrine bomb: What do we know after latest revelations
Gen Somyot did not discuss the basis for the latest police assessment. "It's about a human trafficking network that has been destroyed," he told reporters. "Deporting those 109 people, the Thai government did in accordance with international law.”
He said the bombing and the ransacking of the Thai consulate in Istanbul – which occurred the day after the deportation – were for the same reason of “illegal human migration, with an origin here and destination Turkey".
He added: “We destroyed their operation and they are angry.”
Yusufu Mieraili, one of the men detained in Thailand, was carrying a Chinese passport that gave a Xinjiang birthplace when he was arrested.
The lawyer for the other suspect said his client, Bilal Mohammed, was born in Xinjiang but moved to Turkey in 2004 where he received Turkish nationality. He was holding a Turkish passport in the name Adem Karadag when he was arrested in a Bangkok apartment packed with bomb-making paraphernalia and dozens of fake Turkish passports.
He entered Thailand on August 21, four days after the bomb blast, with the aim of finding work in Malaysia and had nothing to do with the bomb material, his lawyer said.

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
