2015-08~09
http://asia.nikkei.com/magazine/20150813-THE-SCARS-OF-WORLD-WAR-ll/Viewpoints/Raj-Kumar-Sharma-Why-China-wants-a-big-footprint-in-Central-Asia

Raj Kumar Sharma: Why China wants a big footprint in Central Asia- Nikkei Asian Review
China's aggressive actions and claims in the South China Sea, on its eastern flank, are being contested by its neighbors and the U.S. However, China's advance in Central Asia, on its western flank, looks unhindered due to the geopolitical realities of the region.
     With the U.S. and NATO withdrawal from Afghanistan underway since last year, and Russia under economic sanctions for its role in the Ukraine crisis, China appears well-placed to pursue its interests in the region.
     China's Central Asia policy is part of its "March West" strategy, a term coined by professor Wang Jisi of Peking University in 2012. Wang said that as the U.S. "pivots" to the Asia-Pacific, China needs to branch out westward.
Central Asia came under Russian rule during the second half of the 19th century. China's relations with the region were interrupted due to its rift with the Soviet Union in the 1960s; the border between the two giants was heavily militarized.
     Things changed after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. China took the initiative to create the "Shanghai Five" in 1996 and signed treaties with Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan aimed at securing peaceful, less militarized borders. The Shanghai Five later became the Shanghai Cooperation Organization when Uzbekistan joined in 2001.
     Since then, China has made rapid strides in enhancing its Central Asian presence through energy pipelines, trade, investment and infrastructure development. With annual trade of $50 billion, China has emerged as the largest partner of the Central Asian countries, overtaking even Russia.
     China has both security and economic interests in Central Asia. Its primary security interest relates to its largest province, Xinjiang, officially the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region. Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang have been demanding independence ever since the area once known as East Turkestan was taken over by China in 1949.
     Also called Chinese Central Asia, Xinjiang shares a 3,305km border with Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. Uighurs are ethnically and culturally Turkic in origin. They are closer to the Central Asians than to the Han Chinese, the ethnic majority in China. The Uighur-Han relationship is tense: Clashes between the groups in the regional capital, Urumqi, led to the deaths of around 200 people in 2009.
     There are around 300,000 Uighurs in Central Asia, and Beijing fears Xinjiang Uighurs could use their cross-border ethnic links to strengthen their separatist movement. This, in turn, could also intensify similar demands in Tibet and Inner Mongolia.
     To control Uighur separatists, China has a two-pronged strategy. On the security front, it has launched a massive crackdown in Xinjiang, branding separatists as terrorists. It also claims they have links with al-Qaida and have been trained in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
     On the economic front, China has been trying to create a "complex interdependence" between the Central Asian countries and Xinjiang, hoping to make them stakeholders in one another's economic development and stability. These growing ties are evident from the fact that around 83% of Xinjiang's foreign trade is with the Central Asian countries. Around 80% of China's trade with Central Asia passes through Xinjiang.
     Because Xinjiang is less developed than eastern China, the government believes greater prosperity in the region will cause the separatist movement to lose public backing and fade away.
     China supports the political status quo in Central Asian countries and shares their concerns about terrorism and Islamic fundamentalism. Political instability in Central Asia could spread to Xinjiang, which China does not want. China hopes to foster regional stability through trade, investment and the security framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
     In return, it has extracted commitments to a "One China" policy from Central Asian leaders. This means not allowing Uighur separatists to operate from their territory and cooperating with China on counterterrorism.
Energy is the main economic driver pushing China toward Central Asia. The nation's appetite for energy is growing, but around 80% of its oil and gas supplies pass through the Indian Ocean and the Strait of Malacca. These are dominated by the U.S. and Indian navies, and Beijing is concerned that its energy supplies could be targeted in the event of a conflict.
     India has also expanded the scope of its Malabar naval exercise with the U.S. and invited Japan to participate this year. In all probability, China will see this as an effort to check its moves in the Indian Ocean.
     To reduce its overwhelming dependence on maritime routes, China is buying energy from Myanmar, Russia and Central Asia. Central Asian natural gas also allows China to lessen its dependence on coal, which helps it cut greenhouse gas emissions and tackle pollution. So this is a win-win situation for both sides, involving minimum risks and maximum gains.
     Two major pipelines are in operation between China and Central Asia at present. The first is the Central Asia-China gas pipeline, or the Turkmenistan-China pipeline, which spans Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan before crossing into China. In 2012, China imported 21.3 billion cu. meters of natural gas from Turkmenistan -- more than half its total natural gas imports that year.
     The second pipeline is the Kazakhstan-China oil pipeline, China's first direct oil pipeline from Central Asia. It runs along the Caspian shore of Kazakhstan to Xinjiang in China and has an annual capacity of 14 million tons.
     Experts are already talking about Chinese plans to, eventually, secure energy with an overland corridor connected to the Gulf states via Central Asia.
     Chinese manufacturing, meanwhile, is under strain due to falling demand from the West. Under the circumstances, the Central Asian countries are an attractive export destination. This explains Beijing's motivation for launching its $40 billion New Silk Road initiative. The plan also gives the country a chance to hedge against the U.S.-led Trans-Pacific Partnership, which it sees as a strategy to contain its economic rise.
The road will start from Xian in central China and pass through Xinjiang, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Iran, Turkey and Russia before reaching Europe. China is also building a Chongqing-Xinjiang-Europe railway that will reduce the time it takes for Chinese goods to reach Europe by 20 days. At present, China trades with Europe via the Indian Ocean-Gulf of Aden-Suez Canal route, which takes 36 days.
     China's growing presence in Central Asia has negative implications for Japan and India. Media reports suggest China made economic assistance to Central Asia conditional on those countries opposing Japan's bid for a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council.
     For India, China remains a competitor for Central Asian energy resources. China signed a $5 billion deal on the Kashagan oil project with Kazakhstan, which had been slated to go to India in 2013. Media reports suggest Beijing is pitching the idea of a new gas pipeline from Turkmenistan to China via Afghanistan and Tajikistan. Such a project could undercut the Trans-Afghanistan Pipeline, or TAPI, which involves India.
     China has been increasing its footprint in Nepal, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Pakistan. If we add Central Asia, China's "string of pearls" strategy becomes a full necklace encircling India. This has major security implications.
China's growing profile in Central Asia raises eyebrows in Russia, which sees itself as the security provider in the region. This is why Russia has been upgrading its security presence.
     There are also fears of Chinese expansionism and domination in Central Asia, sparking anti-China protests in Kyrgyzstan. Opposition leaders in Tajikistan highlight Chinese "land grabs."
     Central Asian nations want to avoid overdependence on China. They welcome other powers that can offer balance. So there is room for nations such as India and Japan to increase their influence, helping Central Asian countries overcome obstacles to their development and providing a counterweight to China.
Raj Kumar Sharma is a university grants commission senior research fellow at the Center for Russian and Central Asian Studies, School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi.
You have limited access. To enjoy full access, subscribe now.
Your subscription renewal has not been processed.Please update your payment information and enjoy full access.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week

Your subscription renewal could not be processed. Please update your payment information to continue enjoying the Nikkei Asian Review.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week


 Nikkei Asian Review is the only publication that brings you Insight about Asia, from the inside out.
 XXcontractNameXX has enabled you free full access to Nikkei Asian Review.
