2015-08~09
http://www.thaivisa.com/forum/topic/855149-83-burmese-rounded-up-in-bangkok-bomb-suspect-sweep/

83 Burmese rounded up in Bangkok bomb suspect sweep - Thailand News - Thailand Forum
You currently have javascript disabled. Several functions may not work. Please re-enable javascript to access full functionality.
83 Burmese rounded up in Bangkok bomb suspect sweep
By DVBMAE SAI: -- Thai-language news agency Khao Sod reported that 83 Burmese migrant workers in the Thai border town of Mae Sai were rounded up by security forces as they continue to search for more suspects in the Bangkok bombing incident.
The report quoted Thai army Region 2 commander Col. Sonyud Thongkung saying that a combined force of more than 200 army, police and local government officials raided seven locations in two neighbourhoods in Mae Sai on 8 September, apparently following a tip-off that the bomber or his accomplices may have been hiding out among the migrants.
It said the raid was also a measure to search for illegal firearms, drugs and undocumented migrants.
The report said the officials rounded up 83 migrants but could not find the bombers, nor firearms or drugs.Full story: http://www.dvb.no/ne...-thailand/57205
 -- DVB 2015-09-11
You could not make it up. Lets target anyone who isn't Thai. Lets blame anyone, especially our enemies. Still they didn't find anything. So what a waste of time, man power and once again showing the incompetence. I am surprised they are allowing Laotians, Burmese, Cambodians into the country. I remember why, someone has to do the hard work as the Thai women can only do so much manual laboring.
I wonder which nationality will be targeted next. Some people would call it racism and victimization.
I suppose if you round up as many as 83 Burmese, there's a better chance that one of them will resemble the man in the yellow shirt.
I'm astounded it took this long for a Burmese migrant to get arrested for this.
Off topic but Dr. Porntip Rojanansund will be taking the stand in the Koh Tao case today. Will be good seeing the Thai police's 'work' torn to shreds. By the way, there seems to be a distinct lack of new threads on that case on this forum. Any reason why? 
It's a lot easier to round up illegal migrant workers.  Also, RPT and the immigration police are paid by ISIL to provide protection for the Uighur smuggling ring.  Prayuth messed that all up when he unwittingly deported 100+ Uighurs to China, instead of sending them on to Turkey, to join ISIL in Syria.  Obviously, the police are not going to pursue the remnants of that smuggling operation, which has resorted to bombings in Bangkok, except to the extent necessary for a show put on for public consumption.  After all, if they were to actually come clean, it would reveal that Thailand has been a hub for ISIL's trafficking of Uighur militants, not good for a country trying to upgrade from a Tier 3 rating on the TIP report.
As for that other criminal matter, I don't think anyone was convinced by the prosecution's case.  I don't believe any police officer testified about obtaining dna samples from the victims' bodies for testing.  That's a fatal flaw in the case and will ultimately result in a dismissal.  The prosecution put on a lot of testimony about taking dna from the defendants, the cctv, and the confessions, but nothing probative as to the guilt of the defendants.  Basically, the case is stillborn.  Under Thai court procedure, you won't find out about that until the court renders its judgment.  In more modern justice systems, there is a directed verdict, and the judge can just end the case at the conclusion of the testimony of the prosecution's witnesses. 
I suppose if you round up as many as 83 Burmese, there's a better chance that one of them will resemble the man in the yellow shirt.
Maybe it is the translation of the story and I am not native Enlgish speaker, but "rounding up" sounds very brutal and rude to me like - isn't it more something you do with cattle or sheep. But then again that could perhaps be the general view they have on migrant workers?
Need some scapegoats. It sure is easy to just get a Burmese. They better work harder making up tales and intimidating on this one though its a little more big profile.
  they should be able to pressure one guy out of 83 to confess. the odds are in their favor.
No rounding up of corrupt officals then.
Just scapegoat Burmese.
Collateral Damage.
 couldn't have expressed it better myself Peter Jackson....... proverbial nail on the head 
I can understanding searching for bombing suspects, who certainly aren't Burmese, in any particular location that their investigation may point to.
But I can't understand what searching for bombing suspects has to do with "rounding up 83 Burmese migrants."
If they didn't find any bombing suspects or any evidence pointing to them, then leave the danged Burmese alone!
But frankly, it's kind of surprising that the Thai police could round up 83 of anyone in Thailand and not find any drugs or weapons.
I heard that Inspector Clouseau and Frank Drebin are being called in to help the BIB.
police and local government officials raided seven locations in two neighbourhoods in Mae Sai on 8 September, apparently following a tip-off that the bomber or his accomplices may have been hiding out among the migrants.
It said the raid was also a measure to search for illegal firearms, drugs and undocumented migrants.
 
excellent showcase of RTP multitasking skills: looking for bombers and at the same time firearms, drugs and illegal immigrants - good job.
Now, what did you find? Nothing? Not even drugs? These are Burmese! Couldn't you have planted something?
embarrassingly the RTP evidence planting skills were non-existent, at least on this occasion (too many witnesses? or did Officer Somchai forget to bring the drugs, again?) 
I suspect another excuse for bullying Burmese.  Have to wonder is all foreign journalist on on the list of Bombers at Large.
^^ It is, and my guess is that there was a press release, which would suggest the powers that be aren't aware of it.
Send 2 to Koh Tao. It looks like the need 2 more suspects.
How much time did the BIB have to properly frame those two boys? Just draw a little blood while they are incarcerated, smear on the hoe, voila! It beggars belief but I am wondering which factor is driving the bus with the BIB-- incompetence or dishonesty.
Maybe it is the translation of the story and I am not native Enlgish speaker, but "rounding up" sounds very brutal and rude to me like - isn't it more something you do with cattle or sheep. But then again that could perhaps be the general view they have on migrant workers?
'Yep, we're gonna round em up, and smoke em out!'   Maybe this is why the boss likes to wear his cowboy hat.
 
No rounding up of corrupt officals then.
Just scapegoat Burmese.
Collateral Damage.
 couldn't have expressed it better myself Peter Jackson....... proverbial nail on the head 

Perhaps you could have done if you read the report properly...
"The report said the officials rounded up 83 migrants but could not find the bombers.."
Maybe it is the translation of the story and I am not native Enlgish speaker, but "rounding up" sounds very brutal and rude to me like - isn't it more something you do with cattle or sheep. But then again that could perhaps be the general view they have on migrant workers?
Nothing to do with the translation but all to do with English not being your first language.  This was a perfectly correct use of the phrase "rounded up".
 
I heard that Inspector Clouseau and Frank Drebin are being called in to help the BIB.
Did you miss the reports of a number of people being arrested, others being identified and arrest warrants for others issued in this case?
Not to the Thai government, they think it is great, 3rd world at it's best in play

Maybe it is the translation of the story and I am not native Enlgish speaker, but "rounding up" sounds very brutal and rude to me like - isn't it more something you do with cattle or sheep. But then again that could perhaps be the general view they have on migrant workers?