2015-08~09
http://www.dhakatribune.com/weekend/2015/sep/17/feast-sacrifice

The Feast of Sacrifice | Dhaka Tribune
The sacrificial feast or a re-enactment of Abraham’s promise to God, Eid-ul-Adha arrives in the Muslim world with its rituals and particular cuisines. From the Bosphorus to the Uighar Muslims of China, tables creak with good food and the feeling of loss, even if momentary, when your animal lays its life to your religious sacrifice. Here’s a peek into some of the customs enjoyed the world over during Eid-ul-Adha.
TURKEY
The two royal camels walked with a certain grace and dignity. A stance befitting the specific task they had been honoured with. A task, that would rank them to the highest legions of camels found anywhere else in the Ottoman Empire. These camels carried the Kisweh or the cloth that covered the Qa’aba Sharif in Mecca and accompanied an entourage from the Sultan’s palace, which were representing their absent monarch at the Hajj. Thus, the Ottoman Empire contributed greatly towards the Muslim pilgrimage annually. Back home swings were set up on every street corner in Istanbul and Qurban Bayrami (the feast of sacrifice) was celebrated with great aplomb all over Anatolia and the capital city. Before the day of Eid-ul-Adha arrived, sheep with their horns covered in gold foil and henna stained fleece were lead to a square outside the Bayezid Mosque, in Istanbul. They were given unto the care of the children of each household who looked after the animal for slaughter, with love and care. People hastened to each others houses to greet each other while the poor made their rounds collecting meat. And by midday the entire city would be redolent with the wafting aromas from kitchens large and small. From cabbage dolmas, to pilafs (pulao) studded with large chunks of meat, kababs which have been spiced with oregano and a range of salads and a yoghurt soup to wash down the heaviness, made their way to the Bayrami table. To this day, Eid-ul-Adha is celebrated with great fervor in Turkey, a legacy to the past glories of this old culture.
LIBYA
In the Bedouin culture of Libya, Eid-ul-Adha is celebrated with the customary morning prayers followed by the men donning on their most run down clothes to slaughter the sacrificial animal. Once the carving starts, a junior member of the family is stationed near the men who takes away the first installment of meat to be cooked: the lungs, liver and kidneys along with the stomach. The four chambered stomach is cleaned out by women, deftly using their henna laden hands while using lime salts to clean the stomach linings. These are then washed and stuffed with fragrant spices and rice that has been mixed with a large assortment of herbs and fresh vegetables, onions, garlic, meat and tomatoes. The food is strategically stuffed into the stomach linings using a syringe or agile fingers and then the skin is sewed up and steamed. The result is Osbaan, one of the most delicious outcomes of this seemingly disgusting body part of the sacrificial animal.
CHINA
Ten ethnic groups in China, including Hui, Uygur, Dongxiang and Bao'an, celebrate the annual festival of Eid-ul-Adha. The Muslims of the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region and Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous region celebrate the festival a day in advance as the women of a household prepare special Chinese cookies. From peanut cookies to ones with walnuts or almonds, the Muslims give in to the customary sweet tooth culture which is a widespread concept with Muslims worldwide: starting an auspicious day with a bite of something sweet.
UZBEKISTAN
The Uzbekistanis only started celebrating Kurban Hayit (Eid-ul-Adha) as a holiday since 1991 and for both the hayits, Eid-ul-Fitr and Eid-ul-Adha, the Uzbeks start preparing from the day in advance and prepare kush-tili and bugirsok which are fancy pastry balls, also orama and chak-chak, fried pastries which are wrapped around an assortment of nuts in sugar. Children get a special treat as toys and roadside snacks only prepared at this time of the year, like wooden and tin rattles, clay whistles and variety of kazinaki (sunflower seeds, peanut and other varieties of seeds and nuts brittles). And then the evening festivities begin with a large dish called kosa that takes over most of the table, serving an aromatic Plov which is much like a pulao, filled with celery stalks, peppercorns, lamb meat and raisins. But the crowning glory of the dish is the whole garlic sitting on top of it. The garlic is roasted for over an hour to make it lose its pungency, leaving it sweet and caramelised, decorating the dish and giving it a regal touch.
BANGLADESH
As Muslims in Bangladesh prepare to ring in one of our largest celebrated festivals, let us hope the train services are on time and that everyone reaches their villages and ancestral homes to enjoy the biryanis, bhuna mangshos and teharis that will be making their rounds in all households.
A word out to families of the pilgrims who lost their lives in the recent Hajj accident: May their families find the strength to bear this loss. Here’s wishing all readers of Dhaka Tribune Weekend Magazine, Eid Mubarak!  
Reema Islam works at Relief International, in a EU funded project on Ecotourism. Her main interest lies in archaeological heritage conservation & working with communities that live around a heritage site. Reema raises awareness about Bangladeshi archaeogy through articles in the US magazine Archaeology & other foreign & national publications. 

Copyright © 2016 Dhaka Tribune, All Rights Reserved. | Developed by Portonics