2015-08~09
http://www.koreaobserver.com/bangkok-bombers-captured-and-linked-to-uighur-repatriation-50779/

Bangkok bombers captured and linked to Uighur repatriation – The Korea Observer
The Erawan shrine is located in central Bangkok, Thailand. In August, a deadly bomb attack occurred, killing 20. It was the deadliest attack in the nation’s capital. Police say, that as of this weekend, they have apprehended the man responsible for setting the bomb in place, the so-called man in yellow, and he’s confessed.
Bilal Mohammed (also identified as Mohammad Bilaturk), who was carrying a forged Turkish passport in the name of Adem Karadag, is the individual authorities allege to have placed the deadly bomb. A second suspect, Yusufu Mierili, a native of Xinjiang, China, is alleged to have handed the bomb to Bilal and to have taken photographs of the resulting blast.
So far, a total of 17 individuals have been implicated in the Erawan shrine and Sathorn pier explosions. However authorities are still looking for the mastermind of the attack.
“This case is conclusive,” said Royal Thai Police commissioner-general Somyot Poompanmoung. “The perpetrators are part of a human smuggling network” in retribution for the Thai government’s crackdown on a human trafficking network.”
Meeting, that Thai authorities are convinced beyond any shadow of a doubt, that the attack was in retaliation for the Uighur repatriations. This is why the police say the shrine was targeted, as it is popular with Chinese tourists.
The cases to be tried in military court. This is, however, after the prime minister said it would be tried in civilian court. Prime Minister Prayuth originally gave the reason for a civilian trial to be that the case needed to be tried and appear aboveboard meet international standards of justice. But now looks as if Thailand has gone back on that word, stating because police are notoriously corrupt, it would not be the best venue.
Sam Zarifi, Asia regional director for the International Commission of Jurists said, “It’s crucial that the suspects receive adequate legal defense and full protection of due process to ensure that the right people are being prosecuted — and convicted — in compliance with Thai and international fair trial standards. The investigation has not been up to the standards expected for a case of such sensitivity. Numerous conflicting and confusing statements about the suspects and engagement with other countries’ police forces have needlessly eroded credibility when what is demanded is truth and justice for the victims and survivors.”
With the military detaining scores of others and reports of human rights violations, one has to wonder if these men were in fact, receive a fair trial. Their convictions, regardless of evidence, are all but a foregone conclusion.
The Asia News Weekly podcasts brings you the biggest stories from the Asia-Pacific region.
The Korea Observer  | Newspaper Registration Number: Seoul A-02790 (서울, 아02790) | Business Registration Number: 117-81-83443 | Address: Deoksu Felice Suite No. 201, Nambusunhwanro-330, Yangcheon-gu, Seoul, South Korea. | Tel: 82-2-2698-4851 | Fax:0504-052-4851 | Publisher: Lee Tae-hoon | Email: editor@koreaobserver.com