2015-08~09
http://www.opednews.com/articles/Pipelineistan--the-Iran-by-Pepe-Escobar-China-Investment-Corp_China-Politics_Iran_Pakistan-iran-Pipeline-150815-693.html

Article: Pipelineistan -- the Iran-Pak-China connection | OpEdNews
1 
 (1 Shares)  
 
 
 



View Stats   1 comment


 1   
 1   
 1   
 View Ratings | 
 Rate It

Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif has just been to Islamabad to talk serious business with Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. And the serious business had to be Pipelineistan -- as in what next for the Iran-Pakistan (IP) gas pipeline.
Zarif essentially said that IP is a go -- again -- as soon as sanctions against Iran start to melt, by late 2015 or early 2016. Iran has already invested $2 billion in the Iranian stretch of IP, and China will finance the Pakistani stretch.
This is a major Pipelinestan gambit, as Asia Times has previously reported. And as a side note, as soon as IP goes online, all those years of incessant harassing by successive Bush and Obama administrations will finally come down to nought.
Even before Zarif hit Pakistan something serious was going on in ... Karamay. You may have not heard of Karamay, but this town in Xinjiang is right at the center of the Eurasian action; it has just hosted the 2015 China-Pakistan Economic Corridor Forum.
As we all know, the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is an absolutely key component, worth $46 billion, of the China-driven New Silk Roads. CPEC will link Kashgar in Xinjiang to the Arabian Sea port of Gwadar via highways (essentially an upgrade of the fabled Karakoram Highway), railways, industrial parks, fiber optic networks and -- eventually -- a pipeline.
And that pipeline will be no less than an extension up north of IP.
As part of CPEC, for instance, last month TBEA Xinjiang SunOasis -- a Chinese company -- finished the biggest solar power plant in Pakistan, for $215 million, in only three months.
At Karamay, China and Pakistan signed 20 CPEC-related cooperation agreements. They even issued a Karamay manifesto, stressing the political/economic importance of the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st-Century Maritime Silk Road. CPEC is the largest China-Pakistan joint project since the construction of the Karakoram highway in 1979. And CPEC is only one among six economic corridors to be developed as part of the New Silk Roads.
Yet the full impact of CPEC will only be noted by the next decade. That's when the New Silk Road for the bulk of China's energy imports from the Middle East will be cut short by no less than 12,000 kilometers.
Meanwhile, Turkmengaz -- Turkmenistan's national gas company -- has taken a 51% stake in a consortium still seeking to build the perennially troubled TAPI (Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India) gas pipeline, a serious competitor to IP if it ever gets built.
That's a game-changer because the Turkmen will now be in charge of the construction and operation of TAPI Ltd. The cost is a whopping $10 billion (IP will cost three times less); investment to the tune of $4 billion and $6 billion in debt.
Still it all comes back to the same problem; who wants to invest in a steel umbilical cord prone to all sorts of sabotage traversing a war zone -- western Afghanistan all the way to Kandahar? In theory, "host countries" should be responsible for TAPI's security; in the case of Afghanistan, that qualifies as black humor.
For the moment, Turkmengaz can only count on the Manila-based but Japan/US-controlled Asian Development Bank (ADB). That's not much. The notoriously opaque regime in Ashgabat says it's seeking other backers -- but no one knows where and how.
TAPI is still a pipe dream. Pakistan and India are not seriously considering it viable even in the medium term. So it's back to IP.
Pepe Escobar is an independent geopolitical analyst. He writes for RT, Sputnik and TomDispatch, and is a frequent contributor to websites and radio and TV shows ranging from the US to East Asia. He is the former roving correspondent for Asia (more...) 

Most Popular Articles by this Author:     (View All Most Popular Articles by this Author)
Why Putin is driving Washington nuts
You Want War? Russia is Ready for War
Why Qatar wants to invade Syria
All aboard the New Silk Road(s)
It was Putin's missile?
Where is Prince Bandar?


The Moral Relativity Principle No Longer Applies to Progressives by Nikki Lambert (see # of pageviews)
Should Bernie Pay Off Superdelegates Like Hillary? by Gustav Wynn (see # of pageviews)
Think Again Hillary Democrats: 10 Reasons Why She Could Lose this Fall by Les Leopold (see # of pageviews)
March 19, 2003 -- Thirteen Years Ago Resigning Due to President Bush's War on Iraq by Ann Wright (see # of pageviews)
Voting With Our Feet by Chris Hedges (see # of pageviews)
America Cannot Be Great Again by Linh Dinh (see # of pageviews)
Is There a US-Russia Grand Bargain in Syria? by Pepe Escobar (see # of pageviews)
What Happens When Neither Political Party Answers to the Bottom 90%? America in Crisis by Thom Hartmann (see # of pageviews)
#CanWeAgree ? New Left Hashtags: #HillaryClinton & #BernieSanders Supporters by Rob Kall (see # of pageviews)
Noted Swedish Journalist, Assange Critic Exposed As Police Agent by Andrew Kreig (see # of pageviews)
U.S. Air Force's Ability to Deliver Death But Not Food Is A Choice by David Swanson (see # of pageviews)
The Russian ultimate lethal weapon by Pepe Escobar (see # of pageviews)
My Terrorist, Your Terrorist by Uri Avnery (see # of pageviews)
Kasskara: Sunken Land of the Hopi Ancestors / The Ancestors that Came from the Sky (Part 2) by Shawn Hamilton (see # of pageviews)
Republicans try to stop the Revolution of the Rubes by Philip Kraske (see # of pageviews)
AMERICA NOW (Part 2): Do We Really Want A Good Society? by Arlan Ebel (see # of pageviews)
Will We Miss President Obama? by Robert Parry (see # of pageviews)
Land Worth=GDP and enough to replace all taxes with Land Rent by Scott Baker (see # of pageviews)
Sanders under pressure to quit from Democratic leaders, media by Patrick Martin (see # of pageviews)
An Ugly Smear Campaign by Robert Parry (see # of pageviews)
The Democratic Party's "Superdelegates" Are Super Wrong by Norman Solomon (see # of pageviews)
The Zionists Censor a Textbook by Lawrence Davidson (see # of pageviews)
How the U.N. is stealing our "UNALIENABLE RIGHTS" to grow food and Medicine through U.N. Convention on Narcotic Drugs by Sheree Krider (see # of pageviews)
The First 100 Days: What Would Donald/Hillary/Bernie Do? by Ted Rall (see # of pageviews)
To Cuba with Hate by William Blum (see # of pageviews)
