2015-08~09
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/china-appeals-us-help-fight-islamist-militants

China appeals for US help to fight Islamist militants | TODAYonline
BEIJING — China has appealed for the United States’ support in fighting Islamist militants in the far western province of Xinjiang, saying they are also a threat to American interests.
The threat of terror grows “more complicated and severe by the day”, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday, following a meeting between Chinese Vice-Foreign Minister Cheng Guoping and Tina Kaidanow, Ambassador-at-Large for the US State Department’s Bureau of Counterterrorism.
“China stressed the serious threat of ETIM (East Turkestan Islamic Movement) and other East Turkestan terror organisations to China, the United States and the international community, and requested that the United States vigorously support and coordinate with China in combating the efforts of East Turkestan terrorism forces,” the ministry said.
Both China and the US have agreed to combat cyberterrorism and violent extremism, and strengthen anti-terrorism intelligence (and law enforcement), the ministryadded.
Chinese officials say ETIM recruits Uighurs, a largely Muslim, ethnic minority from Xinjiang, and trains them together with extremists in Syria and Iraq. The intent is for Uighurs to return to China to wage holy war.
Many foreign experts, however, have questioned whether ETIM exists as the coherent group China claims it is. Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of Uighurs have illegally crossed the Chinese border in recent years, travelling to Turkey via South-east Asia.
Rights groups say that such migrants are fleeing ethnic violence in Xinjiang and Chinese controls on their religion and culture, allegations that Beijing denies.
Hundreds of people have died in unrest in Xinjiang in the last three years, blamed by Beijing on Islamist militants. The central government has sought to curtail religious expression for Uighur Muslims and ban fasting during the holy monthof Ramadan.
Women in Urumqi, the provincial capital, have been banned fromwearing the burqa since January.
But these measures have been resisted by the Uighurs, who have become more strictly observant of Islamic practices, or found ways to circumvent the government bans.