2015-08~09
http://funs.co/view/2015/09/25/teenage-conservative-c-j-pearson-takes-on-obama/

Teenage Conservative C.J. Pearson Takes On Obama | Funs.co
Thirteen-year-old conservative C.J. Pearson is a new darling on the right for his outspoken views against President Obama. He recently claimed he was blocked by the Obama Administration Twitter account. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“The White House says it is not blocking 13-year-old conservative activist C.J. Pearson from following President Obama’s Twitter account.
Pearson claimed the White House blocked him after he criticized President Obama’s decision to invite 14-year-old Ahmed Mohamed to the White House. Mohamed made headlines after he was arrested for bringing a homemade clock to school that officials mistook for a bomb.
But the White House contends it doesn’t block anyone from Twitter, as the administration’s policy is that official governmental accounts not block any followers.
Frank Benenati, an assistant White House press secretary, Tweeted about the policy after Pearson accused the White House of blocking him.”*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.