2015-08~09
http://www.forwardinchrist.org/?p=713

Crisis in International Religious Freedom | Forward in Christ Magazine
Baylor University hosted two talks in September on religious persecution that were truly eye-opening. One was by former congressman Frank Wolf (R, VA-10), who has spent the past thirty years defending religious minorities around the globe. The other was by Robert P. George, the McCormick Professor of Jurisprudence at Princeton University and Chair of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF).
When most of us think about religious persecution today we picture ISIL slaughtering innocent Christians in Iraq, Syria, and Libya. Not only have their crimes been horrific, they also meet the legal definition of genocide in international law (more on which anon).
But tragically, ISIL is not the only perpetrator of religious violence in the world, and Christians are not the only victims. This was forcefully brought home in both talks. The problem is much worse than we suppose, and when the global scale is accurately grasped, the mind cannot help but recoil.
Frank Wolf is justly celebrated for many great achievements during his three decades in Congress. But perhaps his most significant achievement is a piece of legislation he crafted and successfully ushered into law: The International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (IRFA). IRFA created an International Religious Freedom Office at the State Department headed by an Ambassador-at-Large (currently Rabbi David Saperstein).
It also established the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF)—the very commission on which Professor Robert George serves as Chair. Its job is to monitor violations of religious freedom around the world and to report them to the President and Congress.
Mr. Wolf’s talk was not uplifting. Speaking to an audience of 38 undergraduates enrolled in a class on religious liberty, he described among other things the enormity of what ISIL is doing in Iraq. “More biblical activity took place in Iraq than in any other region of the world,” Wolf said. “Abraham was from Iraq [ancient Nazaria], and Ezekiel was buried there.” Jonah was also buried in Iraq, though in July 2014, ISIL deliberately exploded his tomb in an act of symbolic destruction. What ISIL has been trying to do is to erase all evidence of Judeo-Christian culture in order to usher in their new theocratic regime.
There’s an old saying in the Middle East that “as go the Jews, so go the Christians.” Its truth is reflected in the data Mr. Wolf cited in his talk. In 1950, there were roughly 150,000 Jews living and worshiping in Iraq. Today there are fewer than ten. And ISIL has its own version of the saying: “First the Saturday people, then the Sunday people.” In other words, they have been aggressively expelling, converting, or exterminating two ancient faiths in sequential order: the Jews and the Christians. Christians in Iraq numbered 1.5 million in 2003, Wolf observes, but that number has now fallen to something like 200,000.
Nor is the problem limited to Iraq. In neighboring Syria, where the al-Assad regime has for the past four years been systematically massacring Sunni Muslims, ISIL has moved into the vacuum to target all religions that oppose their particular religious ideology, including Alawites, Shi’a and Sunni Muslims, and Christians. It is thought that more than half of Syria’s pre-conflict population has now been displaced or exterminated.
And earlier this year in neighboring Libya, ISIL beheaded twenty-one Egyptian Coptic Christians in a symbolic act of anti-Christian terror. Readers may still recall the ISIL video that showed the prisoners kneeling in orange jumpsuits on a beach before they were beheaded. Wolf took pains to stress that these are not random acts of violence, but a “deliberate genocide campaign,” and that Christians are in fact on the “edge of extinction” in the regions of the world where Christianity originated.
Professor Robert George’s talk took place in the majestic Armstrong Browning Library at Baylor University, which houses the largest collection of Robert and Elizabeth Barrett Browning materials in the world. The setting was too beautiful for the litany of ugly facts about global religious persecution that George described. His talk was a summary of the 2015 annual report put out by the United States Commission on Religious Freedom.
That report identifies 17 “Countries of Particular Concern” (CPCs), places where acts of religious persecution are so serious that the Commission recommends some kind of U.S. response. In last year’s report the number of CPCs was only nine: Burma, China, Eritrea, Iran, North Korea, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan. The Commission still regards those countries as CPCs, but has now added eight more: Central African Republic, Egypt, Iraq, Nigeria, Pakistan, Syria, Tajikistan, and Vietnam.
CPCs are designated according to a fixed standard. They must engage in “systematic, ongoing, egregious violations of religious freedom, including violations such as—(A) torture or cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment; (B) prolonged detention without charges; (C) causing the disappearance of persons by the abduction or clandestine detention of those persons; or (D) other flagrant denial of the right to life, liberty, or the security of persons.”
The report also identifies ten more countries as Tier 2 Countries, whose governments engage in or tolerate at least one of the violations used to identify CPCs, but do not fully meet the CPC standard. These are Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Cuba, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Laos, Malaysia, Russia, and Turkey. Moreover, USCIRF has been monitoring religious freedom violations on a smaller scale in Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Cyprus, Kyrgyzstan, and Sri Lanka.
Thus there are 33 countries where violations of religious freedom are serious enough to command the Commission’s attention, and the number of actual CPCs virtually doubled in one year. Religious persecution seems to be spiraling out of control. But why? What lies behind this global crisis?
This question was put to Professor George after the talk, and he did his best to address it, though he acknowledged its profound difficulty. His answer was that liberal democracies in the 20th century left something important undone when they defeated such oppressive ideological regimes as Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, Imperial Japan, and eventually Soviet Communism. They defeated the powers but failed to defeat ideology itself. The word “ideology” in this contest refers to a comprehensive worldview that attempts to explain and justify mass violence in the name of bringing about a more perfect world (utopia). Like a hydra with many rejuvenating heads, ideology is capable of recreating itself in new guises. The crisis, then, stems from the world’s failure to understand and prevent the ideological impulse.
Professor George’s answer helps to explain an otherwise baffling fact about the perpetrators of religious violence today, which is that they come from remarkably diverse ideological backgrounds.
No doubt, Islamic religious extremism fits this framework and undergirds the religious violence in, for instance, Iraq, Syria, and Iran, and the Sudan. In Iran, the ideological regime persecutes Bahá’ís, Christian converts, and Sunni Muslims. “Sufi Muslims and dissenting Shi’a Muslims also faced harassment, arrests, and imprisonment,” according to USCIRF, for their rejection of the unique Islamic ideology that President Hassan Rouhani espouses.
“Ideology” also sheds light on religious violence in other parts of the world. In China, for instance, religionists are deemed enemies of the Marxist-Communist State. These include Uighur Muslims, Tibetan Buddhists, Catholics, Protestants, and Falun Gong practitioners, who have been arrested, fined, and imprisoned. Likewise in North Korea, anyone who rejects the Juche ideology—the Kim family cult of personality, which requires absolute obedience to the Kim family and to the overall state—is imprisoned in labor camps, especially Christians.
Also, if we think about threats to religious freedom in Western countries that are not on the USCIRF list but are nevertheless monitored—countries such as France, Germany, and the United States, we sense that instances of oppression stem from a secular progressive ideology that seeks the removal of all religious speech, action and symbols from public life. This is what stands behind the ban on the burka in France, the longstanding law against homeschooling in Germany, and the recent attacks on religionists in the U.S. who refuse to promote gay marriage.
If Professor George is correct, then, what is needed is some hard intellectual work on the nature, causes, and effects of ideology. Perhaps if we can better understand the phenomenon of ideology, we can learn to neutralize it or at least prevent some its most violent effects in the world.
Interestingly, Mr. Wolf was asked the same question as Professor George—“Why is religious persecution on the rise around the world?” But his answer was different. He pointed out that during the era of Presidents Carter and Reagan, the U.S. government made human rights abuses a centerpiece of American diplomacy. When these presidents met with foreign leaders, they aggressively pressed them on human rights violations in their countries and made any “deals” conditional upon some improvement.
Matters today stand differently, Wolf lamented. He mentioned the looming nuclear deal between the United States and Iran, a deal that requires nothing of Iran with respect to its involvement in religious persecution. He likewise referenced American diplomacy with China. Too often, our diplomats and even the President himself remain silent about egregious religious persecution instead of using it as leverage at the negotiating table—this, despite the fact that religious persecution violates international laws to which the countries themselves are often signatories.
Mr. Wolf claimed that the recent refusal of the United States government to take international religious liberty seriously (not to mention domestic religious liberty) has created a vacuum around the world in which groups are willing to commit heinous international crimes under the belief that no one will stop them.
If Professor George and Mr. Wolf are both, in a sense, right about the causes of religious violence around the world, then their answers suggest that in the absence of decisive moral leadership by the U.S. and other Western powers, the forces of ideological extremism will be allowed to grow unchecked and gradually to take the shape of concrete movements bent on the destruction of everything opposed to their utopian visions for the world.
But whatever the causes of the rise of religious violence around the world, Mr. Wolf and Professor George spoke unanimously on one disturbing fact. Americans are utterly failing to acknowledge what is going on, as if by ignoring international religious persecution, the problems will go away. Even the American government, according to both speakers, has shown an unconscionable lack of concern for the fate of religious minorities around the world.
This is why it is so important to recognize (as mentioned earlier) that the persecution of religious minorities under ISIL-controlled territories meets the legal definition of genocide in international law. Governments in the West have historically failed to respond adequately to genocides as they’ve occurred. And we carry a profound sense of collective remorse about this fact. From the Holocaust to Kosovo to Rwanda, the West did far too little far too late, and then regretted its inaction. Are we going to make the same mistakes again? Will we not learn anything from the past?
Both speakers closed their talks by citing concrete actions that can be taken by citizens who wish to make a difference. Both mentioned prayer and also staying informed. There are also aid organizations, easily searchable online, that need resources for supplying relief to groups suffering from religious persecution around the world.
And finally, both speakers referred to a bill soon to come before Congress that is designed to renew and strengthen the provisions of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998. It is called, appropriately, “The Frank Wolf International Religious Freedom Act” (HR 1150) and is being introduced by Congressman Christopher H. Smith (R, NJ-4). The Bill is under threat, astonishingly, by some special interests that want to gut some its most vital provisions. So both Professor George and Mr. Wolf encouraged calls to local congressmen.
All in all, the speakers at Baylor last week conveyed a sense of urgency. If Americans do not care about the state of religious liberty around the world, neither will their government, nor will the leaders of other states. Americans have historically been the most outspoken proponents of religious liberty in the world. Should we now fall silent either out of ignorance or apathy, the effects would be devastating for global peace and security.
David Corey is an Associate Professor of Political Philosophy at Baylor University, Texas.

Tags: Baylor Waco, Frank Wolf, HR 1150, IRFA, ISIL, Persecution of Christians by Muslims, religious liberty, Robert P. George, USCIRF