2015-08~09
http://funs.co/2015/09/15/the-largest-immigrant-legalization-program-in-u-s-history/

“The Largest [Immigrant] Legalization Program In U.S. History” | Funs.co
A group called National Immigration Forum Action Fund who would like to remind Republicans who their granddaddy is: Ronald Reagan. It seems the Republican idol was more kind to immigrants than the current GOP clown car. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“Timed to this week’s Republican presidential debate, a pro-immigration group will run a television ad that juxtaposes Ronald Reagan’s upbeat tone in welcoming people to the United States against the words of the current party candidates.
The ad from the National Immigration Forum Action Fund will cost roughly three-quarters of a million dollars, according to a news release from the group. It will run primarily on CNN, which is hosting the presidential debate on Wednesday at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in California, but also on Fox News and MSNBC.”*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.