2015-08~09
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/asia/bangkok-shrine-bombing-suspect-in-is-a-uighur-who-fled-to-turkey-say-thai-police-10500747.html

Bangkok shrine bombing suspect in is a Uighur who fled to Turkey, say Thai police | Asia | News | The Independent
We use cookies to enhance your visit to our site and to bring you advertisements that might interest you. Read our Privacy and Cookies policies to find out more.
A key suspect in last month’s bombing at a Bangkok shrine that killed 20 people has fled to Turkey, Thai police have said. This bolsters the view that the attack could be the work of members of China’s ethnic Uighur minority, who have sympathisers in Turkey.
Police had previously said the man, carrying a Chinese passport under the name Abudureheman Abudusataer, may have directed the bombing of the Erawan Shrine on 17 August. The preliminary investigation had him leaving Thailand on 16 August for Bangladesh. Police had speculated he may have gone from there to China.
However, national police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri said that information gathered by Thai police and Bangladeshi officials now showed that suspect leaving Bangladesh’s capital, Dhaka, on 30 August and travelling to Istanbul in Turkey, via Delhi and Abu Dhabi. Istanbul was “his final destination”, he said. “It’s clear.”
This may strengthen the theory that those behind the blast are Uighurs from the Chinese region of Xinjiang who have close ties to Turkey. Several of the 12 bombing suspects for whom arrest warrants have been issued are believed to be Turkish.
Uighurs complain of oppression by the Chinese government, and some advocate turning Xinjiang into a separate Uighur state.
After weeks of demurring, Thailand has suggested that those behind the blast may have been from a gang involved in smuggling Uighurs. But others speculate they may be separatists or Islamist extremists angry that Thailand repatriated more than 100 Uighurs to China in July.
Motorcycles lie on the street at the scene of a bomb attack near Erawan Shrine, central Bangkok, Thailand, 17 August 2015. An explosion in a busy commercial district in the Thai capital killed a yet unconfirmed number of people. Witnesses said the explosion happened around 7:15 pm (1215 GMT) at the Rajprasong Intersection, a business area famous among tourists and locals for a revered Hindu shrine.
A general view taken from a moving train shows bodies covered in white sheets around the Erawan Shrine, central Bangkok, Thailand, 17 August 2015. An explosion in a busy commercial district in the Thai capital killed a yet unconfirmed number of people. Witnesses said the explosion happened around 7:15 pm (1215 GMT) at the Rajprasong Intersection, a business area famous among tourists and locals for a revered Hindu shrine.
Officials close off an intersection after an explosion in Bangkok, Monday, Aug. 17, 2015. A large explosion rocked a central Bangkok intersection during the evening rush hour, killing a number of people and injuring others, police said.
A rescue workers near the scene of an explosion on August 17, 2015 in Bangkok, Thailand. A large explosion believed to be from a bomb has happened in central Bangkok this evening with early reports suggesting 12 people have died and at least 20 more have been injured
Motorcycles are strewn about after an explosion in Bangkok, Monday, Aug. 17, 2015. A large explosion rocked a central Bangkok intersection during the evening rush hour, killing a number of people and injuring others, police said
A Thai soldier (R) looks at the damage after a bomb exploded outside a religious shrine in central Bangkok late on August 17, 2015 killing at least 10 people and wounding scores more. Body parts were scattered across the street after the explosion outside the Erawan Shrine in the downtown Chidlom district of the Thai capital.
A Thai soldier ropes off the scene after a bomb exploded outside a religious shrine in central Bangkok late on August 17, 2015 killing at least 10 people and wounding scores more. Body parts were scattered across the street after the explosion outside the Erawan Shrine in the downtown Chidlom district of the Thai capital.
Thai rescue workers carry an injured person after a bomb exploded outside a religious shrine in central Bangkok late on August 17, 2015 killing at least 10 people and wounding scores more. Body parts were scattered across the street after the explosion outside the Erawan Shrine in the downtown Chidlom district of the Thai capital.
Police chief Somyot Poompanmoung is interviewed by the press on August 17, 2015 in Bangkok, Thailand. A large explosion believed to be from a bomb has happened in central Bangkok on the evening of Tuesday 17th of August, 2015. Early reports suggest 12 people have died and at least 20 more injured.
Explosive Ordnance Disposal officers enter the Erawan Shrine after an explosion in Bangkok, Monday, Aug. 17, 2015. A large explosion rocked a central Bangkok intersection during the evening rush hour, killing a number of people and injuring others, police said.
Efforts to identify the members of the network believed responsible for the bombing continued on Sunday, when police in Bangkok raided an apartment allegedly linked to a bombing suspect. Police said no bomb-making materials were found in the apartment, which is in a building that serves as a hostel for women. Thai media reported that the two tenants and a guest were taken away for questioning.
Two other key suspects are also in custody, charged with possession of explosives. One of them was captured from an apartment on the outskirts of Bangkok where police also discovered bomb-making material. The other was caught near the border between Thailand and Cambodia, and police said his fingerprints were found on a container with explosive material confiscated from the apartment.
Malaysia’s police chief announced that a Pakistani and two Malaysians had been arrested in connection with the Bangkok bombing.