2015-08~09
http://www.dailykos.com/story/2015/09/06/1418943/-BLM-has-become-the-Target-of-Conservative-Talking-Points

BLM has become the Target of Conservative Talking Points

With all the Red-White-and-Blue "Nativism" being stirred up by the GOP's leading Candidate, it was only a matter of time before they turned their 'victimhood' Talking Points on citizen activists of the Black Lives Matter movement. Afterall some Police Officers have died -- so THAT gets their attention. That fuels their ire, to find 'someone' or 'some group' to blame.

Republicans step up attack campaign -- and the target is Black Lives Matter
     Recent killings of police officers fuel conservatives’ messaging as candidates increasingly find fault in movement but is the blame-game working?
Other Republican candidates have faulted Black Lives Matter as selfish in its focus on African Americans, as inflammatory in its rhetoric or as failing to focus on black-on-black violence. Drowning them out and goading them on have been Fox News, Rush Limbaugh and other conservative barkers, who have not hesitated to draw an explicit link between the movement and the killing of police officers, despite a lack of any supporting evidence.
[...]
O’Reilly’s guest pointed out that fatal attacks on law enforcement are down 17% so far in 2015 when compared with last year. But the facts have not stopped Fox News from branding Black Lives Matter a “murder movement” and a “hate group” -- the latter label having first been applied by Limbaugh.
[...]

I suspect that very soon the BLM movement will learn first-hand, that the Republican Party does not get Nuance ... that they do not generally understand 'appeals to fairness and reason'.
That the Republican Party is primarily about "blaming others" -- for their own perceived slights, since THEY as the only "true makers" of America ... everyone else "the takers" of their labors ...
"Do all lives matter? Of course but the reality is that in our country some lives matter more than others," said Alicia Garza, co-founder of Black Lives Matter.
She said that "Republicans are out of touch with what's going on right now -- they refuse to acknowledge that there's inequality in terms of race."
Garza called it is "shameful" for conservatives to attempt to marginalize their movement by blaming African Americans for their response to police brutality.
[...]
"There has been a recent effort to link the Black Lives Matter movement to a spate of murders of police officers last month. On Tuesday night, Bill O’Reilly brought on Peter Moskos, a professor of Criminal Justice at John Jay College and a former police officer to discuss the issue. O’Reilly asked Moskos if he believes that “the Black Lives Matter crew and other radicals are igniting violence against cops.”
Despite his best efforts, O’Reilly could not get the answer from Moskos that he wanted.”
Of course O'Reilly was not willing, to acknowledge those facts, nor reverse his entitlement rhetoric.

Isn't is odd how quickly O'Reilly cited the theory of 'stochastic terror' there [Bill-O:  "that some disturbed individuals watch this -- and then Act-out"] as a reason for the uptick in Police-shootings?

O’Reilly claimed he was "just reporting" Tiller's Nickname -- Not Inciting it
by jamess -- Feb 25, 2015

The Young Turks go on to observe the irony that:
O'Reilly thinks that it is BLM Protesters who are 'stirring the pot' -- NOT the fact that Police are shooting People (both Black and White) at epidemic rates, with Blacks disproportionally the victims of this seemingly out-of-control Police-sanctioned contest.
Unfortunately for the seemingly endless list of Unarmed Victims of Police Violence,
the Republican Party -- and their instigators -- don't often understand Basic Math either.


