2015-08~09
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3233469/Malaysia-says-3-detained-connection-Bangkok-blast.html

Bangkok shrine bombing suspect may have fled to Turkey say Thai police say as Malaysia announces 3 arrests | Daily Mail Online

Published:
 00:50 EST, 14 September 2015

 | 
Updated:
 11:34 EST, 14 September 2015


Police said main suspect Abudusataer Abudureheman or 'Ishan', is believd to have fled to Turkey and is of 'Uighur' ethnicity
Thai police say the key suspect in the bombing at a Bangkok shrine that killed 20 people has fled to Turkey.
Abudureheman Abudusataer, known as Ishan, is a member of the Turkish-speaking Uighurs, an ethnic group that originally moved from Turkey to west China.
Several of the 12 suspects in the Erawan Shrine bombing, for whom arrest warrants have been issued are believed to be Turkish. 
It's believed that the attack could be linked with ultra-nationalist Turkish group the Grey Wolves, though Thai police have so far avoided calling the bombing a terrorist attack. 
The news comes as police in Malaysia announced they arrested three suspects, two Malaysians - a man and a woman - and a Pakistani man, detained a few days ago following a tip-off by Thai authorities. 
Police originally believed that Abudusataer left Thailand on August 16 - the eve of the bombing - for Bangladesh and may have gone to China but have now have new evidence he has travelled to Turkey.
National police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri said: 'He departed Dhaka on August 30 for Delhi by Jet Airways. From Delhi, he continued his travel to Abu Dhabi, and from Abu Dhabi he traveled on August 31 to Istanbul. This is his final destination. It's clear.'
The Muslim Uighurs have long complained of oppression in China. Analysts believe the Erawan Shrine bombing on August 17 could be linked to the deportation of 109 Uighurs from Thailand to China, which sparked protests outside Thailand's consulate in Istanbul. 
Police in Malaysia have arrested a Pakistani and two Malaysians linked with the brutal shrine bombing in Bankok that left 20 dead
Inspector General Khalid Abu Bakar told reporters that the three were detained a few days ago following a tip-off by Thai authorities. He said one of the Malaysians is a woman.
Twelve of the 20 people killed were foreigners, including people from China, Hong Kong, Britain, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. 
Anthony Davis, a Bangkok-based security analyst with IHS-Jane's, speaking at the Foreign Correspondent's Club of Thailand, said there were not many groups with the motive and capability to carry out such an attack.
He said the most likely perpetrators were members of the Grey Wolves, a group not known to have engaged in any significant militant activity in recent years, beyond street clashes with rivals.
Davis said their motive may have been revenge for Thailand's deportation of Uighurs to China.
'The Uighur cause is something they've latched onto in a big way,' he said, adding that the Grey Wolves were 'at the front of the queue' during an attack on the Thai consulate in Istanbul last month by a mob protesting Thailand's decision to deport the Uighurs.
He did not give details or say where in Malaysia the three were detained, when they will be formally charged, or what the charges would be
Police have been criticised for not finding answers as their probe enters a fourth week with no clarity about the motive or affiliation of those behind Bangkok's deadliest bombing.
The stuttering probe has gained momentum since one of two detainees police refer to as Yusufu Mieraili, implicated a man called Izan, and admitted delivering a backpack to the yellow-shirted fugitive assumed to be the bomber.
Thai visas were issued separately in Kuala Lumpur to men using the names Abu Dustar Abdulrahman and Yusufu Mieraili.
Both had applied using Chinese passports, which has led to speculation the bombing may have been revenge by sympathisers of Uighur Muslims, many of which seek passage to Turkey via Thailand.
In Malaysia, Inspector General Khalid Abu Bakar, who did not say where the three suspects were detained, when they will be formally charged, or what the charges would be, during a press conference in Kuala Lumpur. 
One of the detained suspects, Yusufu Mieraili, was arrested last month with a Chinese passport registering his birthplace as Xinjiang - the region home to some 10 million of the Uighur minority
But Thai Police Chief Somyot Poompanmoung said he has not received any information from the Malaysian police on the arrest of the three suspects, linked with the bombing that killed 20 people and injured more than 120.
Two key suspects are also in custody in Thailand, charged with possession of illegal explosives. One of them was captured from an apartment on the outskirts of Bangkok where police also discovered bomb-making material.
The other was caught near the border between Thailand and Cambodia, and police said his fingerprints were found on a container with explosive material confiscated from the apartment. 
But Abudureheman, known as 'Ishan', was identified as a member of the Chinese minority group for the first time last week, opening a new chapter in the investigation.
Zachary Abuza, an expert on Southeast Asian militant groups, said: 'There is definitely a Uighur or radical Turkish national connection.'
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group