2015-08~09
http://www.digitallook.com/news/international-economic/bangkok-police-hunt-bomb-attack-perpetrators--835241.html

Bangkok Police hunt bomb attack perpetrators | Digitallook.com
Apple launches small-screen iPhone SE, cheaper Apple Watch and smaller iPad Pro
Apple launches small-screen iPhone SE, cheaper Apple Watch and smaller iPad Pro
Live | There is a legal basis to act against ISIS, Hammond says
Live | Paris attacks: France to dispatch carrier to eastern Mediterranean
Apple launches small-screen iPhone SE, cheaper Apple Watch and smaller iPad Pro
Sainsbury's yet to win over analysts as path cleared for Home Retail offer
Apple launches small-screen iPhone SE, cheaper Apple Watch and smaller iPad Pro
Further rate rises in US justified, possibly in April, Fed´s Lacker says
Apple launches small-screen iPhone SE, cheaper Apple Watch and smaller iPad Pro

Aideen Kennedy
 |
 
 Sharecast |
 18 Aug, 2015 

 07:03 - Updated: 10:31 
 |
 
 |
 
 |
 



Thai authorities are close to determining who detonated a bomb at a popular spot in Bangkok which killed 22 people and injured 123, according to local media.
Prime minister Prayut Chan-ocha said the suspect was believed to belong to an “anti-government group based in Thailand’s northeast”. Read more: Huge explosion rocks central Bangkok, reports of casualties
“It is much clearer who the bombers are, but I can’t reveal right now,” the country's defence minister Prawit Wongsuwan added on Tuesday.
Thailand’s ministry of foreign affairs was more cautious and commented that “for the time being” it was too early “to determine the possible motives or who the perpetrators may be.” Officials already commented that the bombing did not match tactics used by insurgents in the south, and pointed out they were chasing a suspect who had been caught on security cameras near the scene where the explosion took place.
Police teams were deployed to the scene on Tuesday, in order to gather some reliable clues that could point to those behind the attack.
"Police are not ruling out anything including (Thai) politics and the conflict of ethnic Uighurs who, before this, Thailand sent back to China," National Police Chief Somyot Pumpanmuang told reporters.
Eight foreigners are believed to be among the victims, including three Chinese citizens, as reported by China's official Xinhua news agency said. Two Hong Kong residents, two people from Malaysia and one person from the Philippines also died, officials said.
Huge explosion in Tianjin, China leaves at least 44 dead
US stocks eked out gains during a relatively quiet trading session on Monday, with telecommunications and healthcare stocks leading the risers.
Commodity markets were little changed at the start of the holiday-shortened trading week on Monday, although the results of a survey published on 18 March showing an up-tick in US oil sector activity continued to be a 'talking point' in markets.
In its latest product launch event, Apple slightly underwhelmed with the launch of a smaller-screen new 'iPhone SE', a cheaper price for the Apple Watch wearable device and a new smaller 'iPad Pro' tablet.
Crude oil futures slipped at the end of the week as a key gauge of activity in the US oil sector ticked up on Monday, for the first time in three months, although it was still languishing far below the levels reached in the halcyon days of late 2014.
Gulf Keystone: Canaccord downgrades to sell with a target price of 14p.
Sainsbury's has not entirely won over analysts despite being allowed an unchallenged path to the takeover of Argos owner Home Retail on Friday, with several remaining neutral and Goldman Sachs maintaining a 'sell' rating.
Somero Enterprises chief executive Jack Cooney and his wife sold off over £2m of the company's shares, reportedly in order to satisfy a US tax bill.
Additional rate hikes from the US Federal Reserve should be expected in 2016, possibly as soon as April, a top US central bank official said.
At the beginning of a holiday-shortened week, European stocks wavered on Monday after a mixed start to trading on Wall Street.
The FTSE 100 closed in the red on Monday after a survey showed continued weakness in UK manufacturing sector activity.
The 'dovish' shift in the US central bank´s policy stance after its 15-16 March meeting was a "surprise", but it would only temporarily arrest strength in the dollar, the broker said.