2015-08~09
http://bdnews24.com/world/2015/09/14/bangkok-bomber-flew-via-dhaka-and-delhi

Bangkok bomber flew via Dhaka and Delhi - bdnews24.com
Wreckage of motorcycles are seen as security forces and emergency workers gather at the scene of a blast in central Bangkok August 17, 2015. Reuters
Thai police has said the man, carrying a Chinese passport in the name Abudureheman Abudusataer, may have masterminded the Aug 17 bombing of the Erawan Shrine.
At least 20 people from many nationalities were killed in the blast.
According to Thai intelligence reports, the man departed Bangladesh's capital, Dhaka, on Aug 30 and travelled to Istanbul in Turkey as his final destination, via New Delhi and Abu Dhabi.
"He departed Dhaka on Aug 30 for Delhi by Jet Airways from Dhaka ," Indian officials said quoting the Thai intelligence reports.
"From Delhi, he continued his travel to Abu Dhabi in Indian Airlines. Then from Abu Dhabi he travelled on Aug 31 to Istanbul. That was his final destination."
It is not clear though whether either Bangladesh or India or both had received any intimation about this man from Thai police after the explosion.
"We are not sure the Thais raised a red flag about this suspect. If they did, he would not have got past our net," said an Indian intelligence official.
But even if a formal warning was not received about the suspect -- and of a specific nature – his picture was played up by the Thais on global TV channels.
Thai police is now sure that those behind the blast are Uighurs from the Chinese region of Xinjiang.
They enjoy close links to Turkey. Several of the 12 bombing suspects for whom arrest warrants have been issued are believed to be Turkish.
Thailand suspects the group responsible for the bombing were separatists or Islamist extremists angry that Thailand repatriated more than 100 Uighurs to China in July.
Uighurs complain of oppression by the Chinese government, and some advocate turning Xinjiang into a separate Uighur state.
Any unauthorised use or reproduction of bdnews24.com content for commercial purposes is strictly prohibited and constitutes copyright infringement liable to legal action.