2015-08~09
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/60708/20150805/china-u-s-share-intelligence-anti-terrorism-campaign.htm

China, U.S. to Share Intelligence on Terrorism : Politics : Chinatopix
Chinese legislators have voiced assurance that the country's first counterterrorism law will have the teeth to deal with domestic terrorism that has killed hundreds of people over the years.(Photo : Photo by ChinaFotoPress/ChinaFotoPress via Getty Images)
China and the United States have pledged to boost cooperation and information sharing in the fight against terrorist organizations. Senior diplomats from both countries affirmed the commitment after meeting in Beijing on Tuesday for the second China-U.S. consultation on anti-terrorism campaigns.
"The China-US efforts in enhancing bilateral and multilateral anti-terror cooperation serves the shared interests of both countries," a Chinese Foreign Ministry press release from the meeting read.
Cheng Guoping, China's Vice-Foreign Minister, and Tina Kaidanow, US State Department coordinator for counter terrorism, co-chaired the consultation.
China has been fighting extremist activities in the country's western Xinjiang region. The conflict has left hundreds dead and other's fleeing the region.
Officials say the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), which consists mainly of largely Muslim ethic minority Uighurs, is to blame for the violence. The ETIM is also a threat to the U.S. as they have links with other extremists groups.
Hundreds of Uighurs have fled the county to Turkey via Southeast Asia in the last three years. Authorities say some of these migrants have been recruited and trained by extremists in Syria and Iraq with the intention of sending them back to commit terrorist acts in China.
Human rights group have accused the Chinese government of cracking down on the religion and culture of Uighurs. However, the government has denied these claims.
"China stressed the serious threat of the ETIM and other East Turkestan terror organization to China, the United States and the international community, and requested that the United States vigorously support and coordinate with China in combating the efforts of East Turkestan terrorism forces," the Foreign Ministry said in a statement.
Officials of the world's two largest economies have agreed to boost cooperation in anti-terrorism intelligence in the fight against cyber terrorism and other forms of violent terrorist activities.
"The bottom line is anti-terrorism work must be implemented well to ensure terrorist plots are foiled before they can be carried out," Deputy Security Minister Huang Ming said.
The second round of talks between both countries is scheduled to be held in the U.S. and will improve the agreements reached in this meeting. The first consultation of this kind was held in Washington last year. Both sides agreed to increase cooperation and have been working together on the issues ever since.
As China prepares to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the end of the Second World War and the victory over Japanese forces, law enforcement officials are on alert for terrorist activities.
Sign up for our free weekly newsletter for the latest in-depth coverage!
Recent rumors have emerged that Sacramento Kings All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins could finally move to the Los Angeles Lakers in the summer following his recent comments about the Hollywood squad’s young players after the two team’s recent game. read more