2015-08~09
http://www.thailandnews.net/index.php/sid/236320997

Thailand News - Thai PM: Alleged Bangkok Bomber Arrested

The junta boss said the suspect, who is "not Thai," was apprehended in Sa Kaeo province, on the border with Cambodia.

The August 17 bombing of a Bangkok shrine killed 20 people and wounded more than 100.

The suspect - the second to be taken into custody - was captured at noon Tuesday trying to cross into Cambodia and is now undergoing military interrogation in the capital, national police Lt. Gen. Prawut Thavornsiri told reporters in Bangkok.

The police spokesman described the man as an important member of the group responsible for the bombing.

Photographs of the suspect appeared similar to the man in a yellow T-shirt whose image was captured on closed circuit television leaving a bag inside the shrine moments before the explosion.

During a news conference, Prawut would not confirm whether a widely broadcast image of a photo page was that of the suspect arrested at the border.

The passport, whose authenticity could not be immediately determined, was for a 25-year-old man named Yusufu Mieraili, born in Xinjiang, China.

The location in eastern Thailand where the suspect was apprehended appeared to be near a check point that officials had earlier identified as a place where immigration officers had allowed "illegal foreign laborers" entry into Thailand.

Army 2nd Lt. Pareya Netrawichien makes an announcement on Thai TV, Sept. 1, 2015. (Steve Herman/VOA News)

 Earlier Tuesday, General Somyot Pumpanmuang, the Thai national police chief, said six immigration officers had neglected their duties at the Aranyaprathet checkpoint, just across the border from Poipet, and had been punished and removed from their posts.

Authorities on Tuesday also released a photograph of a Turkish man and sketches of two other men for whom arrest warrants had been issued for "illegal possession of explosive."

A few hours before the announcement of the arrest of the alleged bomber, Thailand's military junta Tuesday called on landlords to help them find those involved with the group responsible for the fatal bombing.

The request was made in a noon broadcast aired on all television channels to update the public on the investigation into the attack, which authorities have gone to lengths not to label as an act of terrorism.

Thai authorities have focused on reassuring tourists and foreign visitors that the country remains safe, despite the attack.

Tuesday's announcement, read in Thai, English and Mandarin Chinese, began with an assurance that "airline bookings from other countries into Thailand remain at the normal level."

The junta broadcast also asked owners of residences, guesthouse and apartments "to inform the nearest military or police officers or call 1515" to inform the military or police about any suspicious individuals on their premises.

Images released Aug. 31, 2015, by National Council for Peace and Order shows sketch of unidentified man who police say was living in second apartment, which was raided by Thai authorities and a female suspect.

 - Since Saturday, two apartment complexes have been raided, resulting in the arrest of a 28-year-old foreign man and the discovery of what authorities say are various explosives and components to make bombs.

The man was also found with a stack of apparently counterfeit Turkish passports.

On Tuesday's noon broadcast, Army 2nd Lt. Pareya Netrawichien read a statement saying that suspect, whose name and nationality have not been released, yielded information.

"The result has proven to be greatly beneficial to the interrogation, leading to (warrants for the) apprehension of additional suspects," said Pareya, who is also a regular newscaster on the Royal Thai Army's Channel 5 Television.

A female Thai suspect whose photograph was released Monday, is said to have rented a room to another suspect, and is in another country and is cooperative, according to the military.

Media reports quote the chief of her local village as saying Wanna Suansan has been in Turkey for months with her Turkish husband and declared she had no knowledge of the bombing.

Police spokesman Lt. Gen. Prawuth Thavornsiri shows a photo of one of three men Thai authorities have issued new arrest warrants for in connection with the bombing case, in Bangkok, Thailand, Sept. 1, 2015.

 There has been speculation that the attack could be a response to Thailand's deportation in July of more than 100 ethnic Uighurs to China.

Western governments and Uighur rights groups criticized the move, saying those deported could face ill treatment back in China.

Following their deportation, violent protests in Istanbul targeted the Thai and Chinese missions.

Thai government officials and police have been instructed not to comment about the bombing being an act of international terrorism, mention Turkey or speculate that Chinese tourists may have been specifically targeted.

Eighteen police in Bangkok have been punished by being removed from their posts for alleged wrongdoing related to the bombing, authorities said on Tuesday.

The police officers, following the bombing, failed to conduct ordered searches of premises and "suspicious foreigners" in their districts, falsely claiming they carried out the assignment and discovered nothing unusual, officials told reporters.

There are local media reports that one suspect captured Saturday may have entered Thailand at that location by bribing inspectors and was carrying a fake Turkish passport.
Following Chinese tourists' chaotic stampede and subsequent gluttonous gorging of piles of prawns at a buffet in Thailand, Phuket will be holding an etiquette course for guides working with ...
NAY PYI TAW, Myanmar - Myanmar's new president-elect told lawmakers Monday that plans to create a new ethnic affairs ministry were "vital" for the conflict-torn nation, in his maiden ...
Comments Your feedback is important to us! We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article. Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties ...
The tourist was identified as Perez Neftali who rented the room since March 10. Officials of Udon Mansion apartment told police that the man was staying alone. Police ...
A THAI driver who gained notoriety after causing the deaths of nine people five years ago has been accused by Thai authorities of breaching the conditions of her probation, which has kept her out of ...
SYDNEY - Environmental groups Monday urged greater action on climate change after the government declared the highest alert level over an epidemic of coral bleaching in the pristine northern reaches ...
The service was disrupted after a Suvarnabhumi-Phayathai train's electric system malfunctioned before it reached the Ramkhamhaeng station. Some passengers got out of the ...
MAJURO, Marshall Islands - Battered by massive cyclones, El Nino-fuelled drought and swollen king tides, fragile Pacific island nations vulnerable to climate change are leading the charge in ...
Thailand’s latest draft constitution is a push by the Junta to cement its hold on power, effectively shattering the country’s democracy. While the Junta ostensibly ...
Thailand’s power peak in 2016 is expected to hit 28,500 megawatt, according to an estimate by the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand under the assumption that ...
The Thai military junta says it understands European concerns over the constitution drafting underway, but says it intends to restore democracy. ';The government has no ...
A power breakdown prompted an Airport Rail Link train to get stuck in the rail Monday morning before panic passengers exit through the emergency exits after they unsuccessfully tried to break the ...
London, United Kingdom: Leaving the European Union could cause a "serious shock" to Britain's economy, with the risk of losing almost one million jobs, according to a CBI business ...
WASHINGTON - A 6.6-magnitude earthquake hit off the east coast of Russia's Kamchatka Peninsula Monday but was not expected to cause damage or fatalities, US experts ...
OVER?the last few decades Thailand has attracted expatriates to the country to work, stay long periods of time to explore the country, or retire. Thailand attracts many young ...
Thailand News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Beaches, exotic temples, ruins, good food, world-class services, snorkeling and scuba diving, hill-tribe culture, trekking, nightlife, exceptional handicrafts, classical dance, friendly people and beautiful scenery are among the main attractions of Thailand.
Thailand will appeal to anyone who is interested in beach vacations or archaeology, but especially to those who want to explore exotic cultures without sacrificing modern conveniences.
Sydney - Two pieces of debris found in Mozambique have arrived in Australia for experts to determine if they came from missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, an official says.
A huge search for the ...
Kunshan (China), March 21 (IANS) India were placed in a relatively easy group in the women's section but the men's team did not prove to be as lucky at the draw for the prestigious Thomas and Uber ...
Bangkok, March 20 (IANS) A Thai anti-corruption commission will investigate police officials who were accused of mishandling a probe into a car crash that killed two students last week, the media ...
Shillong, March 21 (IANS) Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday admitted that there was a need to strengthen security along the international border in the northeastern region to curb ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
PRETORIA, South Africa South Africa's ruling party, the African National Congress, on Sunday said it had full confidence in President Jacob Zuma in the wake of mounting allegations of political ...
ISTANBUL A Turkish militant with links to the Islamic State was the suicide bomber who blew himself up killing four foreigners in Istanbul over the weekend, Turkey's Interior Minister Ekfan Ala has ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
LONDON/NEW YORK - US business research provider IHS Inc. is to buy market-data firm Markit to create a $13 billion London-based data and business research provider. The deal joins a wave of ...
© 1999 - 2016 Thailand News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)