2015-08~09
http://www.climateactionprogramme.org/news/china_building_worlds_largest_solar_park_in_pakistan

China building world’s largest solar park in Pakistan - Climate Action Programme
Chinese firms are building the largest solar power farm in the world in Pakistan and the site will have 5.2 million photvoltaic cells and produce enough energy to power 320,000 households.
Xinjiang SunOasis has finished building a 100 MW solar project in the Punjab desert of Pakistan which is part of ambitious plans for Chinese companies to build the words largest by 2017.
The new project was completed in just three months at a cost of about US$131 million and includes 400,000 solar panels spread over 200 hectares of desert.
The installation is named Quaid-e-Azam Solar Power Park (QASP) after Pakistan’s founding father.
The project is the first part of the US$46 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor linking the port at Gwadar in southern Pakistan with Kashgar in China’s western region of Xinjiang.
The QASP plant is the pilot stage of plans to construct the world’s largest solar farm.
The farm is due to be completed in 2017 and will have a capacity of about 5.2 million PV cells producing an estimated 1,000 MW of electricity – roughly the equivalent to power 320,000 homes.
Construction of the next stage has already been started by Zonergy, another Chinese company.
Chief executive officer of QASP Najam Ahmed Shah, said the solar park will also reduce Pakistan’s carbon footprint, mitigating about 57,500 tonnes of coal and cutting carbon emissions by 90,750 tonnes every year.
Pakistan is aiming to reduce its reliance on hydrocarbons, especially imported coal, oil and gas, to around 60 per cent by 2025 from the present 87 per cent.
The government has set a target to increase the share of renewables in the nation’s energy mix from 2 per cent to 10 per cent, excluding hydropower, which already accounts for 15 per cent of the total energy mix.
According to climatologist Qamar-uz-Zaman Chaudhry, the UN secretary general’s special advisor for Asia with the World Meteorological Organisation, Pakistan’s carbon emissions are growing by 3.9 per cent every year and by 2020 it will emit about 650 million tonnes of CO2e (carbon dioxide equivalent) at the current rate.
Climate Action and UNEP have launched the ninth edition of Climate Action for COP21 - read and download the new edition here


 Please enter the word you see in the image below:


 
 Demand for water set to outstrip supply by 40 per cent, highlighting urgent need to improve how humans use the precious resource...
 


 
 Joint Kenya and United Nations Report Highlights Measures that Could Contribute Significantly to Kenya's Paris Climate Commitments...
 


 
 To mark Earth Hour Li Bingbing appeals for individuals to change the way they live to avoid perils of climate change....
 


 
 UNEP's projects help to halt the vicious cycle of climate change, resource scarcity and conflict...
 


 
 The programme, focused specifically on the close relationship between forests and water, will start off by looking at ways to improve water security in eight West African countries: Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal and Sierra-Leone.
 


 
 While the Asia-Pacific region has shown remarkable progress in reducing poverty and hunger during the last 25 years, it can lead the world in the complete eradication of these scourges within the next 15 years, FAO’s Regional Conference for Asia and the Pacific heard today.
 


 
 Thirty-four countries, including 27 in Africa, are currently in need of external assistance for food, due to drought, flooding and civil conflicts, according to FAO's new edition of the Crop Prospects and Food Situation, released today. The figure has grown from 33 last December, after the addition of Swaziland.
 


 
 Leaders of international organizations based in Rome today gathered to highlight the achievements and the real prospects for achieving gender equality. The speakers all agreed accelerating the empowerment of women everywhere is fundamental to achieving a zero hunger world and reaching the world's new Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
 


 
 US Ambassador to the United Nations agencies in Rome, David Lane, today formally presented FAO Director-General José Graziano da Silva with the US' instrument of ratification of the Agreement on Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing.
 


 
 A new 2015 agreement on climate change, that will harness action by all nations, took a further important step forward in Lima following two weeks of negotiations by over 190 countries.
 


 
 A way to increase the visibility of the wealth of climate action by cities, regions, companies and investors was launched today by the government of Peru.
 


 
 A new documentary released on 11 December 2014 highlights the growing recognition of the need for adaptation to climate change around the world, as recognized by governments at this weeks UN Climate Change Conference in Lima.
 


 
 Delegates at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Lima, Peru, were treated to an evening of hope and optimism as the winners of the 2014 Momentum for Change Awards were feted tonight at a gala event.
 


 
 At the UN Climate Change Conference in Lima, a group of five countries has taken steps towards improved national and global forest action.
 


 
 Nairobi 21 March 2016– Starting in Nairobi, Kenya and ending in Abuja, Nigeria, UN-Habitat and its partners the Major Group for Children and Youth sprinted across Africa to raise awareness and recognize the value of youth in the new urban agenda – Habitat III. In three events which engaged over 500 youth representing youth-led agencies […]
 


 
 Many cities are currently facing serious challenges of ineffective development control systems, informal and often chaotic peri-urban expansion, a proliferation of informal housing and livelihood activities, poor connectivity, traffic congestion and energy inefficiency, among others. Cities are increasingly facing environmental challenges, including how to curb rising greenhouse gas emissions and the increasing impacts of anthropogenic […]
 


 
 The shift towards a predominantly urban world makes the process of urbanization one of the most significant global trends of the 21st century. The significant transformation that has occurred in recent decades has given greater understanding and recognition to the role of urbanization in development. Towards Habitat III, UN-Habitat has concentrated efforts to re-establish the […]
 


 
 Tehran, 17 March 2016 (UNIC) – United Nations Habitat Office in Tehran has translated into Persian and published the 2015 edition of International Guidelines on Urban and Territorial Planning. International Guidelines on Urban and Territorial Planning: Towards a Compendium of Inspiring Practices (2015) comprises a sample of 26 international experiences in urban and territorial planning […]
 


 
 Kabul 18 March 2016— UN- Habitat last week launched the second Kabul Metropolitan Conference aimed at assisting key partners to foster spatial metropolitan planning and governance for the greater Kabul area. This conference was jointly chaired by the Afghan Minister of Urban Development Affairs (MUDA) Mr. Sadat Naderi, the Deputy Minister of Municipalities (DMM)Mr. Abudl […]
 


 
 For Gulnara Alimova, a chef from a school in Chui Province, cooking in the kitchen is more than just a job; she believes that she is making a difference in the lives of children in the school where she works. WFP’s Elizabeth Zalkind met her in Bishkek during a two-day cooking competition for the best 20 school chefs in the country. Gulnara’s shared with Elizabeth a Vegetarian Borscht Recipe – part of her team’s winning three-course meal.

 


 
 As the Syrian conflict entered its sixth year, it felt like there were no words left that could do justice to the scale of a crisis that has displaced over 11 million people, and left three out of every four Syrians living in poverty. 

 


 
 With funding from Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency and in partnership with the Swedish Civil Contingency Agency (MSB) and Malawi’s Ministry of Transport and Public Works, WFP is constructing three bailey bridges in Malawi – the first of which has just opened on the Msuwazi river

 


 
 UN Women, FAO, IFAD and WFP will implement a programme to promote the economic empowerment of 1,200 rural women and their families in the Polochic Valley. In Alta Verapaz, where the valley is located, more than 78 percent of people live in poverty, and more than 37 percent live in extreme poverty. The prevalence of stunting is 56 percent.

 


 
 Brussels, 15 March 2016 – Early next month, the world’s first cross-border initiative with smart trucks will take place in Europe.
 


 
 Brussels, 16 March 2016 – In February 2016, the EU passenger car market posted a highly accelerated increase, marking the 30th consecutive month of...
 


 
 Timor-Leste ho Asian Development Bank (ADB) anúnsiu ona kona ba projetu sistema dada bee moos no saneamentu ba iha munisípiu Baukau, Lospalos, Same no Viqueque.


 
 Timor-Leste and ADB have announced major water supply and sanitation investment plans for the towns of Baucau, Lospalos, Same, and Viqueque.


 
 ADB President Takehiko Nakao participated in the China Development Forum on 20 and 21 March and the 9th Asia Solar Energy Forum on 21 March.


 
 ADB has approved a $123.3 million loan for a new water tunnel to help modernize Manila’s water supply, reducing the risk of shortages as demand for water rises in tandem with the city’s booming population.


 
 The European Investment Bank (EIB) has provided a EUR 175m long-term loan for the construction of a new industrial combined heat and power (CHP) plant in Kilpilahti that will supply heat to the oil refinery and chemicals plant on the same site. Being built in accordance with the latest environmental regulations, including the European Industrial Emissions Directive, the new CHP plant is expected to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 20% compared to the current situation. EIB Vice-President Ja...
 


 
 The Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB) and the European Investment Bank (EIB) co-hosted the annual meeting of the Heads of Compliance and Integrity Functions of Multilateral Development Banks (MDB) at the CEB headquarters in Paris on 14-15 March. Representatives from 14 MDBs in Europe, the Americas, the Caribbean, Asia and Africa discussed recent developments in the field, including integrity due diligence in the private sector and non-sovereign guaranteed operations; the international ...
 


 
 Earlier today the Board of Directors of the European Investment Bank approved EUR 4.7 billion of new loans for twenty-five projects across Europe and around the world. More than half of the new long-term loans are expected to be signed in the coming months will improve access to finance by small business in Italy, Spain, Finland, Egypt and Lebanon. This week’s EIB board meeting follows the second meeting of the EFSI Investment Committee, held on 7 th March. This approved use of the EU budget ...
 


 
 The European Investment Bank (EIB) is lending EUR 36.7 million to Österreichische Bundesforste AG (ÖBf AG) to finance the construction of a wind farm in Styria (southern Austria) that will result in a reduction of CO 2 emissions.  This will be the first direct EIB loan to support electricity generation from wind in Austria. It will help to meet the Austrian government’s target of building 2 000 MW of additional wind capacity between 2010 and 2020. The EIB loan will fund the construction of a ...
 


 
 The European Investment Bank has been approved as a new partner institution of the Green Climate Fund (GCF) today. The Green Climate Fund was set up in 2010 at the United Nations climate talks to help developing countries tackle the challenge of climate change through finance for clean and efficient energy and other mitigation investments, as well as adaptation measures to support countries and people vulnerable to the effects of global warming. Today’s approval at the GCF Board meeting in Se...
 


 
 ICLEI invites all local and subnational governments to attend Metropolitan Solutions 2016 – the...
 


 
 According to new data from the annual Revenue Statistics in Latin America and the Caribbean publication, tax revenues rise slightly.
 


 
 A new report by the IDB and the OAS shows Latin America is unprepared to face a cybersecurity threat.
 


 
 The Government of Belize and the IDB are launching the Sustainable Tourism Program II at a workshop March 8-10.
 


 
 IDB Group supports Klabin S.A. in the construction of a pulp mill in Brazil
 


 
 IDBs Caribbean Regional Governors meet in Washington to analyze 2016 economic outlook.
 


 
 By Dolf Gielen – Director of IRENA’s Innovation and Technology Centre In the race to fuel our ever-developing world, renewable energy is making some impressive gains against fossil fuels. While coal use continues to decline in China and around the world, renewables are growing at an unprecedented pace. Renewable energy drew a record $280 billion … Continue reading Doubling Renewables Can Save Trillions →


 
 Water in China is a big issue. According to the United Nations, China is home to 21% of the world’s population but contains only 7% of global freshwater supplies. Faced with an imminent water supply challenge, China introduced province-level water use quotas for 2015, 2020 and 2030, targeting improvements in water use efficiency across sectors, … Continue reading China’s Water Crisis: Renewables Offer Water Stress Solution →


 
 Global leaders from more than 150 countries gathered in Abu Dhabi last month to set the global renewable energy agenda and make concrete steps to accelerate the ongoing global energy transition. While opinions varied on the exact trajectory of this course, delegates universally agreed that renewable energy is the solution: the solution to climate change; … Continue reading Renewable Energy as THE Solution →


 
 Op Ed by IRENA Director-General Adnan Z. Amin (originally published in Gulf News) Less than two months ago, world leaders adopted a landmark climate agreement in Paris, securing decisive global action on climate change. The 32-page agreement has two goals, to hold the increase in global average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels, … Continue reading From Negotiation to Action: Scaling-up Renewables Post COP21 →


 
 “Renewable energy and cities” was the theme of high-level meetings held on the side lines of the World Future Energy Summit. These thematic meetings discussed priorities for a New Urban Agenda and developed policy recommendations in advance of the Third UN Conference on Housing and Sustainable Urban Development (Habitat III). The event resulted in thematic … Continue reading Sustainable Energy and Cities at WFES →


 
 Egypt to host prestigious global symposium for ICT regulatory community ACCREDIT NOW Geneva, 16 March 2016 – Media accreditation is now open for ITU’s annual Global Symposium for Regulators, the world’s pre-eminent gathering of the global ICT regulatory community. Taking place from...
 


 
 60 year old Chimidbaljir Nyamjav from Mongolia wears many hats. He has worked as a teacher mentoring young mining electrical technicians. He has also worked in the country’s transport industry for more than two decades. Apart from his working life,...
 


 
 High-speed networks and services essential to meet UN Sustainable Development Goals Dubai, 14 March 2016 – The Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development’s 13th full meeting, held in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, yesterday, reached consensus on the need for a new...
 


 
 Policy Forum calls for better mobile learning policy environment Geneva, 11 March 2016 – A joint ITU/UNESCO Policy Forum on mobile learning brought together for the first time Ministers of Education and Ministers of Information & Communication Technology (ICT) to...
 


 
 Economic and policy requirements to play a greater role in informing ITU standardization Geneva, 9 March 2016 – The international community is looking to ITU’s unique public-private partnership of members for a neutral platform to strengthen the ties between technical innovation,...
 


 
 WASHINGTON, DC (March 17, 2016) – The second congressional hearing of the week on the Flint water crisis showcased Michigan Governor Snyder and EPA Administrator McCarthy laying blame for the disaster at each other’s feet today.

 
 WASHINGTON (March 16, 2016) – President Obama this morning is scheduled to nominate a successor to the late Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia. The following is a statement by Rhea Suh, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council:

 
 WASHINGTON (March 15, 2016) – China has released a new five-year ''National Economic and Social Development'' plan that will escalate its transition from coal to a clean energy economy. The following is a statement by Rhea Suh, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council:

 
 WASHINGTON (March 15, 2016) – The Obama Administration this morning announced plans to exclude the waters off the Atlantic coast from oil and gas drilling.

 
 WASHINGTON (March 10, 2016) – The Obama Administration today announced plans to limit methane emissions from existing industrial oil and gas facilities. The following is a statement from David Doniger, director of the climate and clean air program at the Natural Resources Defense Council:

 
 South Africa’s newly released climate plan pledges to peak national emissions that cause climate change by 2025 and goes further than other countries on adaptation by quantifying what it will cost to adapt to climate change in light of several possible emissions scenarios.


National greenhouse gas emissions will peak between 2020 and 2025, plateau for approximately a decade, and decline in absolute terms thereafter under South Africa’s plan, known as an Intended National Determined...
[[ This is a content summary only. Visit my website for full links, other content, and more! ]]

 
 This week Brazil formally submitted its climate plan, also known as its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC). The country’s INDC comes on the heels of joint climate change declarations it’s made in recent months with China, Germany and the United States, showing that the country is committed to a creating a successful international climate agreement in Paris later this year.


The INDC calls for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 37 percent below 2005 levels by 2025; 43...
[[ This is a content summary only. Visit my website for full links, other content, and more! ]]

 
 Even for those of us who work on climate change every day, last week was one of the most inspiring events in a long time. From the Pope’s messages to renewed business engagement to major countries throwing their support behind action, the sense of momentum was striking. With the Paris climate summit only two months away, leaders harnessed the opportunity to raise their voices and make it known that business, the public, governments, faith groups and civil society are taking climate action to...
[[ This is a content summary only. Visit my website for full links, other content, and more! ]]

 
 This December, negotiators from nearly 200 countries will convene in Paris with the aim of forging a legally-binding international climate agreement. The new pact will incorporate more ambitious national commitments to address climate change than ever before.


What is the proper yardstick for measuring success in Paris? Is it whether country leaders agree to a new global pact, or does success hinge on whether country commitments will limit global warming to under 2 degrees C (3.6 degrees F)?...
[[ This is a content summary only. Visit my website for full links, other content, and more! ]]

 
 Nearly a year ago, the United States and China laid out their national climate action plans for the coming years. These were the first in what is now a substantial list of national climate action plans—plans that will form the basis of a new international climate agreement to be finalized in Paris later this year. Now, the world’s two biggest emitters have taken the next step by cementing their plans, jointly announcing key actions they’ll take to achieve their national goals, and clarifying...
[[ This is a content summary only. Visit my website for full links, other content, and more! ]]
Phone: +44 (0)20 7871 0173
 Fax: +44 (0)20 7871 0101
 Web: www.climateactionprogramme.org