2015-08~09
http://www.shanghaidaily.com/national/Soldiers-learning-folk-songs-in-Xinjiang/shdaily.shtml

Soldiers learning folk songs in Xinjiang | Shanghai Daily
Follow us @  | Shanghai Call Center: 962288 |  Mobile Version  |  THU, APR 18, 2013
China’s military has been teaching its soldiers in Xinjiang folk dances and songs as part of efforts to improve relations with residents, it said yesterday.
Hundreds of people have been killed in terrorist attacks launched by Islamist militants in the far western region in the past few years.
PLA forces in Xinjiang, which also borders Central Asia, Pakistan, India and Afghanistan, are at the “center of the storm” when it comes to fighting militants and separatists, according to an article in the People’s Liberation Army Daily.
Their job is more than just fighting, it said, pointing to the thousands of activities they have arranged in the past five years going into villages to “explain the Party’s ethnic and religious policies ... and refute rumors.”
Soldiers have been told to get closer to Xinjiang people by learning their languages, folk songs and folk dances.
“Face-to-face communication and heart-to-heart exchanges increase ethnic unity,” the article said.
“The story of the unity between people, military and government, military and the people, and ethnic unity are as plain to see as the grapes of Turpan, and all are as close as pomegranate seeds, and can never be split apart,” it added, referring to a part of Xinjiang famous for its grapes.
Kindly remind you that you have reached your weekly limit of 20 free stories.
Kindly remind you that your 1-week free trial has expired. Thank you for your interest in our products.
To continue using full functionality of our site, please subscribe below.

Education, 
 Entertainment and culture, Environment,
 Expat community, 
 Health and science, Society, 
 In-depth, Services...

Art and culture, 
 Community, Education, 
 Animal planet, Travel...

Book, City Scene,
 Film, Home and design,
 Now and Then, Style,
 Technology, The Week...

 Copyright © 1999- Shanghai Daily. All rights reserved.Preferably
 viewed with Internet Explorer 8 or newer browsers.
