2015-08~09
http://english.cntv.cn/2015/09/20/ARTI1442714461361214.shtml

Creative Figures “60”: The Voice of Deep Love - CCTV News - CCTV.com English

Hot:
Exhibition of IPR protection
 | 
 Yuan
 | 
 Golden Era
 | 
 Four Comprehensives
 | 
 AIIB

Opinion | Panview | One Belt, One Road | Tibet | Closer to China with R.L.Kuhn
China | World | Business | Sports | Culture | Sci-Tech | Opinion | Special Reports
CCTV app for iPhone | iPad | Android Phone | I Love Africa for iOS | Android
Watch to Learn | Growing up with Chinese | Special Chinese | Travel in Chinese
CCTV-9 Docu Live | One City, One Flavor | World Heritage China | Roof of the World
Dialogue | China 24 | News Hour | Global Business | Sports Scene | Culture Express
China Video | World Video | Most Popular | Reporters | Correspondents |CCTV Interviews
Xi's speech | Military parade | Commemoration Ceremony | Patriotic songs
Creative patterns of "Heart" and "60 Years", formed in the yard of Tarim Red Dates Cooperative by farmers from the county of Ruoqiang, Northwest China’s Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, expressing their gratitude to and blessing for the arrival of the 60th anniversary of Xinjiang.
Red dates formed pattern “60 Years” for celebrating the 60th anniversary of Xinjiang
The elderly couple of Yao Bingjiang and his wife Wang Fengying couple a unique “Picture of Grains”, which consists of corns, tomatoes, spices, wheat, wax gourd, and some others, promising their blessing of prosperity and happy life as well as gratitude to the hometown.
Organized by Sayibage Township Walnuts Cooperative in Yecheng county, Kashgar prefecture, sixty farmers formed a big figure “60”on September 14 with six tons of walnuts, giving their special gift to the 60th anniversary of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. This form is 60 meters long and 40 meters wide, a crystalization of four-hour work.
Yang Aifeng, the folk paper-cutting handicraftsperson (left first) just completes her works with a theme of “National Unity and Social Harmony”, in the Orient No.1 subdistrict of Korla, Northwest China’s Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region,Sept.16,2015.
She spent one and a half months in cutting this piece of paper. In the paper, there are people from thirteen ethnic groups singing and dancing under the vines, as well as pigeons standing for peace and eight red latnerns for the air of happiness.
The Picture of Grains made for celebrating the 60th anniversary of Xinjiang
In the Bosten Lake Township Elementary School, Bohu county, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, a teacher and the children are drawing pictures on stones together to give thumbs up to the hometown, cheers to Xinjiang and blessings to the motherland, for celebrating the 60th anniversary of Xinjiang,Sept. 15, 2015.
Autumn is a season of harvesting. With their own produce, Bao Cuntian, Zekela Kasimu, and Maga, accompanied by the their families and the cadres from the Work Group in the village, complete their works: patterns of the national flags and the logos of celebrating the 60th anniversary of Xinjiang, which are made of spices, corns and carrots, aiming to celebrate the common birthdays of themselves and that of the Uygur Autonomous Region of Xinjiang, in the yard of the Village Committee of Haernidun, Caikannuoer township, Bohu county, Xinjiang, Sept.15, 2015.
Yecheng county：Walnuts Shaped Big Figure “60” to Celebrate the 60th Anniversary of Xinjiang
A reed-based picture of “Happy Goats” and a logo of “Celebrate the 60th anniversary of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region” by Deng Shuhua and Wuyun respectively, are presented for celebrating the 60th anniversary of Xinjiang.
Reziwanguli Abudureyimu, a resident running a cake shop for 15 years, is so good at her skill that the cakes she made are popular in the subdistrict of Kuche, Northwest China’s Xinjiang. In this contest, she and her husband bake a big cake marked with “Celebrate the 60th anniversary of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region”.
On the occassion of the 60th anniversary of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and the Birch Woods Art Festival in High Autumn, the government of Habahe county, Northwest China’s Xinjiang, organizes an exhibition of the ethnic handicrafts, with a theme of Unveiling Women’s Fine Craftsmanship, Sept. 16, 2015. The show has about ten thousands of artworks, including embroidery, garments, carvings, decorations, stone artworks and some others. These works are diverse in colors and delicate in process, filled with ethnic cultural elements and artistic creativity, reflecting the excellent skills of women at large. All of them receive high praise and many customers stop to purchase.
Paper cuttings presented in Korla to celebrate the 60th anniversary of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
An activity, named “Jiaozi and Sanzi: media passing on friendship ”, is jointly hosted by the Work Group in the subdistrict and the cadres of the subdisctict in the office of Bohu county, Northwest China’s Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Sept. 16, 2015. During the activity, people are busy with making Jiaozi by mixing fillings and making wrapping while frying Sanzi after preparing dough and making molding, an amazing spectacle promising happy life.
Though from different occupations, the masses are celebrating the 60th anniverary of Xinjiang in their own ways, extending their “ Passions for My Hometown and Love of My Country ”, “My Love of Xinjiang” as well as the blessing of “A better future to the country” in Hebukesaier Mogolia Prefecture, Northwest China’s Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Regions, Sept. 15, 2015.
On the occasion of the 60th anniversary of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and the Birch Woods Art Festival in High Autumn, thousand local people from the county of Habahe, Northwest China’s Xinjiang, are waving the five-starred red flags, extending their blessing for a better future to Xinjiang and the country, and celebrating the 60th anniversary of Xinjiang.



Share this: 
Share on twitter
Share on facebook
Share on sinaweibo
Share on email




Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Instagram
Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Wechat
Manufacturing upgrade high on agenda as China Development Forum closes

Climate Change Conference
G20, APEC Summits
Xi visits U.S.
Beijing 2022
Xi Attends BRICS Summit
Truth and Denial
July 7th Incident
Understanding the CPC
Li Attends 17th China-EU Leaders' Meeting
7th China-U.S. S&ED & 6th CPE
Dragon Boat Festival
The Basic Law
Beijing Bids for 2022 Winter Olympics
Xi Visits Kazakstan, Russia, Belarus
Nepal Earthquake
World Book Day
2015 Boao Forum
2015 Two Sessions
AirAsia Flight Crashed
