2015-08~09
http://www.thaivisa.com/forum/topic/852922-man-arrested-at-border-is-involved-in-two-bombings-in-bangkok/

Man arrested at border is involved in two bombings in Bangkok - Thailand News - Thailand Forum
You currently have javascript disabled. Several functions may not work. Please re-enable javascript to access full functionality.
Man arrested at border is involved in two bombings in BangkokBANGKOK: -- Royal Thai Police spokesman Pol Lt Gen Prawut Thavoirnsiri said before noon today that the suspect who was arrested at Aranyaprathet border yesterday was involved in two bomb explosions in Bangkok.
He said the man was arrested while trying to escape into the Cambodian border through illegal exit channel.
Latest forensic examination conducted on this man showed that his finger prints matched the fingers that forensic police discovered from inside the rented room at Poon Anant apartment in Nong Chok district.
He said the finding indicated strongly that he might be the man who either assembled the explosive in the room or carried the bomb to hand over to the man in yellow shirt who was sen in a video footage planting the bomb near the Erawan shrine.
He also said he might be the man in the yellow shirt but added this needed to be examined further as it needed to be identified by some witnesses.
But in this stage, the spokesman said the man was involved in the two bombings.
Pol Lt Gen Prawut called on pedestrians or visitors who were seen in the same video footage at the Erawan shrine aiming their cameras or video cameras at the shrine with the yellow shirt man also in focus, to give their clips to the police as they might produce clearer images of the bomb suspect in yellow shirt.
All their informations would be kept confidential, he said.
Meanwhile deputy prime minister Gen Prawit Wongsuwan said the suspect arrested by soldiers near the Cambodian border yesterday resembled the yellow shirted bomb suspect.
But he said more examination needed to confirm he is the same person.
Royal Thai Police commissioner Pol Gen Somyot Poompunmoung also said today the nationality of the man is still unknown as he carried fake passport.
But he affirmed that the bombings were cooperated by some Thai people.
Thai police: Suspect's prints match those on bomb material
NATTASUDA ANUSONADISAI, Associated Press
JOCELYN GECKER, Associated PressBANGKOK (AP) — Thai police said Wednesday that the fingerprints of a foreign man arrested at Thailand's border with Cambodia match those found on a bottle containing bomb-making material, as the investigation into last month's deadly bombing in Bangkok gathered steam.
National police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri said authorities were still conducting DNA tests but could determine that "this man is important and is related or conspired with people who committed" the Aug. 17 bombing at the Erawan Shrine in central Bangkok. The blast left 20 people dead, more than half of them foreigners, and over 120 injured.
The investigation into the attack has picked up in recent days with the arrest of two suspects and raids on two apartments on the outskirts of Bangkok that contained bomb-making materials.
In the first apartment, raided Saturday in the Bangkok neighborhood of Nong Chok, police arrested a suspect they described as a foreign man and seized bomb-making equipment that included detonators, ball bearings and a metal pipe believed to be a bomb casing.
They also took fingerprints from the apartment, which turned out to match those of another suspect arrested Tuesday at the border with Cambodia, Prawut said.
"We can confirm that the man's fingerprints match with those found on a bottle that contains a bombing substance," Prawut said, and then added, "He could be the one who brought the bomb out of this apartment or he could have brought the bomb to the crime scene."
Prawut said that further testing, including DNA tests, were being conducted to bolster that theory.
Both suspects who have been arrested are being interrogated by the military and have not yet been charged.
When authorities announced the arrest Tuesday of the suspect at the border, they described him as bearing resemblance to a man spotted in surveillance video at the shrine who is believed to have planted the bomb. The suspect seen in the video, wearing a yellow T-shirt, is carrying a backpack that he places on a bench before leaving.
Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha told reporters that the arrested man is a foreigner who appeared to be trying to escape across the border.
No one has publicly claimed responsibility for the attack, sparking an array of theories about who might be behind it.
Speculation has grown that the suspect might be part of a group seeking to avenge Thailand's forced repatriation of ethnic Uighurs to China in July. Prayuth on Monday linked the two theories, suggesting the bombers might have been involved in smuggling Uighurs out of China.
The prime minister said officials knew from their investigation that people involved in the bombing were about to flee the country and had traced one of the suspects to Aranyaprathet district in Sa Kaeo province, a crossing point to Cambodia. He described the man as a piece in a jigsaw puzzle that would connect various parts of the case, which included a bomb that exploded harmlessly in a river next to a busy pier in Bangkok the day after the shrine blast.
Prawuth said Tuesday that three new arrest warrants had been issued in connection with the case, bringing the total to seven. Two were named persons — he could not provide spellings for the names of the men, whose nationalities were unknown — while the third was not identified by name but was described as a Turkish national. He displayed pictures of the three on a tablet computer.
The blast at the Erawan Shrine was unprecedented in the Thai capital, where smaller bombs have been employed in domestic political violence over the past decade, but not in an effort to cause large-scale casualties.
Arrest warrants were issued Monday for two more suspects — a Thai woman and a man of unknown nationality — after a raid Sunday on a second apartment found more bomb-making materials. Relatives of the woman who had rented the second apartment told authorities that she is innocent and is now in Turkey, married to a Turkish man. The three new arrest warrants announced Tuesday were related to the apartment raided Saturday, police spokesman Prawut said.
Uighurs (pronounced WEE-gurs) are related to Turks, and Turkey is home to a large Uighur community. The Erawan Shrine is especially popular with Chinese tourists, feeding the idea that it could be a target for people who believe the Uighurs are oppressed by China's government. Beijing says some Uighurs are Islamist terrorists, and among them is a group that has been smuggled out of China to join Islamic State fighters in Syria.
The suspect arrested Saturday had a Turkish passport, though Thai authorities say it was fake. At his apartment, they seized at least 11 passports that appeared to be Turkish, among more than 200 passports in all.
A Turkish Foreign Ministry official said Monday that reports that the woman wanted by Thai police may be in Turkey and other allegations about a Turkish connection were "speculation," and that the ministry would not comment on speculation.
The official said he had no information about the woman and could not confirm that her husband is Turkish.
The official spoke on condition of anonymity in line with government rules that bar officials from speaking to journalists without prior authorization.
-- © Associated Press 2015-09-02
So he says that the suspect arrested at the border "resembled the yellow shirted bomb suspect"? I don't think so, the face was very different, I would say that in that case the first suspect looked more like yellow shirt
Sooooo.....  I'm confused. Is this the guy who was arrested by Thai police near the border, or is the guy the Cambodian police arrested at the PP airport?
I personally would like every "fact" verified by an independent foreign body, until then I will take all these "facts" with a pinch of salt.
Sooooo.....  I'm confused. Is this the guy who was arrested by Thai police near the border, or is the guy the Cambodian police arrested at the PP airport?
This must be their new strategy. Confuse till the international press lose its interest and stop to report about.
BANGKOK BOMB BLASTSecond suspect's fingerprints match bomb-making materials : police
The Nation
BANGKOK: -- The fingerprints of a foreign man arrested on Tuesday over the deadly Bangkok blast match those found on bomb-making items discovered at a flat over the weekend in Nong Chok district.
Police spokesman Pol Gen Prawut Thavornsiri said in a televised special programme that the man's fingerprints were found on a bottle containing bomb materials found in a room at the flat police raided.
He was referring to the second suspect who was arrested in Sa Kaew province.
"We can confirm that this man is directly involved with the bomb material," he added.
Found in the flat included bomb-making paraphernalia and dozens of fake Turkish passports. So far two men were detained over the bomb attack that killed 20 people and injured many others on August 17.
Prawut had refused to confirm the two men’s nationalities. They believe both used fake identity documents and are liasing with embassies to ascertain their true nationalities.
Agence France Presse reported that on Wednesday, incoming police chief Pol Gen Chakthip Chaijinda said that a senior officer said the man arrested on Tuesday was talking to interrogators through an interpreter.
"He speaks Turkey’s language," he told reporters, without specifying whether the language was Turkish or part of the wider Turkic family.
Asked whether the detainee was a Uighur, Chaktip said, "The passport says so. But we have to wait for confirmation."
Chaktip said the man was insisting on his innocence during his interrogation.
Source: http://www.nationmul...t-30267972.html
-- The Nation 2015-09-02

Sooooo.....  I'm confused. Is this the guy who was arrested by Thai police near the border, or is the guy the Cambodian police arrested at the PP airport?
 
 
So, if suspect #1 was worth 3 Million how much is this guy going to contribute to the coffers of the elite, Thai CSI team?
One would have to guess the degree of suspected involvement can be guaged by the reward -- Who needs the courts as it appears the BiB have it sussed!
Prawut Thavornsiri said authorities were still conducting DNA tests but could determine that "this man is important and is related or conspired with people who committed" the Aug. 17 bombing
Wait, haven't you been saying since the Cambodians handed him over to you that he is the bomber and/or the mastermind behind the whole thing?
Now, even though you've matched his fingerprints to the bomb materials, you're waiting to see if he's important or even involved at all?
Correct me if I am wrong but I dont believe the Police have ever published a clear picture of the distinctive shirt the guy was wearing, which was identified by people on the web. This is a serious omission surely? 
I personally would like every "fact" verified by an independent foreign body, until then I will take all these "facts" with a pinch of salt.
Nah, dress him up in a yellow shirt, have him put on glasses and a wig, take him to Erawan Shrine with a backpack and bag and then have a group of people point at him.  At that point, I'm sure everyone will be convinced he is the bomber and should face the death penalty.
Sooooo.....  I'm confused. Is this the guy who was arrested by Thai police near the border, or is the guy the Cambodian police arrested at the PP airport?

I personally would like every "fact" verified by an independent foreign body, until then I will take all these "facts" with a pinch of salt.
Sooooo.....  I'm confused. Is this the guy who was arrested by Thai police near the border, or is the guy the Cambodian police arrested at the PP airport?
This must be their new strategy. Confuse till the international press lose its interest and stop to report about.
I think you may find that this is the same strategy used in many cases where ;
1. They do not want to / or cannot / or are persuaded not to, pin the blame on Thais. 
2. They haven't a clue who did it and do not know where to start .
3. Have completely confused themselves with all their own speculations and presumptions as to who did or did not do it, and would lose face if they admitted it was someone or a group,  they had ruled out initially.
By the way , how can the police,  have the audacity to ask people to provide them with clearer pics that may have been taken of the bomber at the shrine ? 
Surely that would mean the policemen having to return  some of their hard, deservedly earned  ( cough !!! ) 3 Million baht, in order to reward a member of the public who had helped them in their enquiries to catch the bomber, wouldn't it???
The supposed, matching finger prints is interesting, as I said long ago, that the 2nd bomb found, and de-fused at the shrine would likely be covered with prints,,, but they've STILL not even mentioned that bomb, it was mentioned by an Aussie first responder in a radio interview.. He said that he noticed it hanging on a fence, and reported to authorities on the scene, who de-fused it... but again,, that's the ONLY mention of it I've seen/heard about it.... THAT key piece, (if has prints on it) would absolutely seal the deal wouldn't?  At least as to who made it anyway.. 
Surely no need for this. Whenever a crime occured here in Thailand heaps of Clouseaus appear instantly in the virtual social networks and swamp them with their astounding "wisdom". Of course this includes also this forum.  
Wadda ya reckon, Messieurs? The baguette died under unnatural circumstances but else...?
Just give it a break with your conclusions and just let the competent parties do their jobs, dudes. 
 
Let's set aside for a moment the question of "who apprehended this guy first, the Thais or the Cambodians?". 
In other respects, the police statements about SUSPECT NO. 2 are fairly coherent. (major shock  )
In fact, as long as Somyot doesn't have a press conference, the story might continue to make sense.
Yes, a "pinch of salt" is required at all times. But suspend your total cynicism for a moment and consider the "knowns" and "unknowns"
2) Somebody else (blue shirt) dropped a bomb in the river
3) The bombs were effective, and unlike previous bombs in Thailand
4) The police arrested a guy (SUSPECT NO. 1) in an apartment. The apartment contained materials consistent with the known characteristics of the bombs. The apartment also contained many fake Turkish passports.
5) At one time, many other people occupied that apartment
6) The police claim to have found bomb making materials at another apartment (but reporting on this seems limited to official statements)
7) Police say the nationality of SUSPECT 1 is unknown (and everybody here has an opinion... )
9) Police say SUSPECT 2 fingerprints are found on a bomb related item from the 1st apartment
10) Police say there are more people involved; they are looking for a Thai woman
1) Who is the shrine bomber? Suspect 1, Suspect 2 or somebody else?
3) Are there really other people involved? Who are they and where are they?
5)  Do the police have any decent leads at this point?
6) Will Somyot have a press conference, or is he muzzled now?
7) Is there more reward money? Do I have to be a police officer to get any reward?
Sooooo.....  I'm confused. Is this the guy who was arrested by Thai police near the border, or is the guy the Cambodian police arrested at the PP airport?
This is the man arrested at phnom phen airport, also he was apparently wanted by China.
After his arrest he was beamed over to Sa kaet then re-arrested .