2015-08~09
http://english.jschina.com.cn/./20728/201508/t2350911.shtml

Connecting Central Asia ep.1: Cargo train to benefit economic transformation in Shaanxi | ENGLISH.JSCHINA.COM.CN
Northwest China's Shaanxi province was once the starting point of the ancient Silk Road. It played crucial roles in connecting trade relations between China and the rest of the world. And now, China has planned to revive the Silk Road, as part of the Belt and Road Initiative.
A cargo train linking Xi’an, Shaanxi’s capital, and the city of Almaty, in Kazakhstan, has been in operation for about two years.
For more than a decade, one of Chinese largest heavy duty truck producers, Shaanxi Heavy Duty Automobile Group, has been exporting about 4,000 trucks to Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan each year. With the launch of
Chang'an Central Asia Cargo train, the company says the train has shortened shipping time from a month to just six days.
"Previously, we shipped truck parts on vehicles to Alataw Pass, and then by train to Kazakhstan. The Chang’an cargo train has saved us 30 percent cost," said Wei Xiaofeng, DGM, Shaanxi Automobile Holding Group.
Alataw Pass is the second Asia-Europe continental bridge and is the gateway to China.
The first Chang’an central Asia cargo train was launched in late-2013, expected to further boost trade between western China along Silk Road economic belt and Central Asia.
Goods from China's other regions can also be exported to Central Asia via this way.
"Other trains are heading to Europe, whereas the destination of this train is east Russia and Central Asia. The trains depart on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. Many enterprises are using the service," said Zhang Chaoyang,
Experts say 30 percent of the products on the cargo are from Shaanxi province, while the rest from the coastal and north China. Shipments of petroleum machinery and heavy duty trucks have an annual trade volume of US$98 million.
A Chang'an cargo recently departed Shaanxi carrying nearly 20 commodities, including tea, ceramic tiles, and marble. Many of them were sourced from coastal cities such as those in Guangdong and Jiangsu provinces. The train will pass through Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region in far west China and then take six days to travel almost 4,000 kilometers to reach their final destination of Kazakhstan.
More Chinese companies are using the cargo service, thanks to a lower cost, higher subsidy and more efficient custom's clearance.
"Now, we have extended our service to 24 hours. For each application we receive, we will process it no longer than five minutes, and spend less than 30 minutes inspecting it," said Cui Yongsheng, Deputy Director, Xi'an Inspection and Quarantine.
Xi’an, known in ancient times as Chang'an, is the starting point of the Silk Road—an ancient land trade route that ran through Northwest China's Shaanxi, Gansu and Xinjiang, and central and western Asia before reaching the Mediterranean.
For decades, China has worked to revive the regions past glories through investment principally in infrastructure and energy.
"China's development of Silk Road Economic Belt doesn't focus only on the economic aspects, but also diplomatic relations," said Ren Baoping, director, School of Economics & Management, Northwest University.
"Towards that goal, the authorities discover national resources, promote the economic development of west China, as well as the integration and cultural exchanges of the countries along the belt."
Authorities have also planned to open a Xi’an-Rotterdam and a Xi’an-Moscow route.