2015-08~09
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2015/09/14/Key-suspect-in-Bangkok-shrine-bombing-believed-to-be-in-Turkey/9081442234215/

Suspect in Bangkok bombing fled to Turkey, police say - UPI.com
BANGKOK, Sept. 14 (UPI) -- Thai police said a man suspected of leading a shrine bombing in Bangkok that killed 20 people in August possibly fled to Turkey.
An arrest warrant was issued over the weekend for Abudusaeter Abudureheman, 27, also known as Ishan, from Xinjiang province in China. Police said he left Thailand for Bangladesh the day before the incident at Bangkok's Erawan shrine.
"He departed Dhaka on 30 August for Delhi. From Delhi, he continued his travel to Abu Dhabi, and from Abu Dhabi he travelled on 31 August to Istanbul. This is his final destination," a police spokesperson said.
His travels coincide with the suspicion of Thai police that the bombing was connected to Uighur separatists in Xinjian, a group with close ties to Turkey. No group has claimed responsibility for the blast, but the Thai government said it believes a network, which includes foreigners, was responsible.
Two suspects were arrested, and Monday Malaysian police announced the arrest of three more, two Malaysians and a Pakistani citizen.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.