2015-08~09
http://www.4-traders.com/news/REFILING-UPDATE1-Fingerprint-matches-Bangkok-blast-prime-suspect-police--20979330/

REFILING: UPDATE1: Fingerprint matches Bangkok blast prime suspect: police
A fingerprint taken from a man detained at the Thailand-Cambodia border has been matched with a print found by police investigating a deadly explosion in Bangkok, a spokesman said Wednesday.
The man, who is not a Thai national and who was arrested in Sa Kaeo province on Tuesday, had his fingerprint matched with one found with bomb-making materials discovered in an apartment in northern Bangkok's Nong Chok district, Thai police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri said.
The man admitted that he was in the area of the explosion on Aug. 17, but denied committing the crime, Deputy Police Chief Chakthip Chaichinda added.
Chakthip said police are on the right track as the case is now 70 percent complete.
When asked if the suspect is Uyghur, he said according to passport he is, but police could not confirm at this moment if that information is genuine or not.
However, the deputy police chief confirmed the suspect speaks Turkish.
The bomb attack at the Erawan shrine in central Bangkok on Aug. 17 killed 20 people and injured more than 100. A second explosion the next day was connected to the incident by police. Nobody was injured by the second blast.
The national police chief Somyot Pumpanmuang reiterated that the man is a key suspect, based on evidence in an ongoing investigation, but could not confirm what his role in the explosions had been.
Asked about the suspect's nationality, Somyot said police are still trying to ascertain this, but are being held up due to the suspect's use of a fake passport.
He added that a female Thai suspect, Wanna Suansan, 26, who claims she is residing in Turkey, is to be assisted by police in her return to Thailand. Wanna claimed she had already contacted police in a bid to prove her innocence, and said she would return to Thailand to help that aim.
Since the deadly explosion hit Erawan shrine, two male suspects have been detained. Neither were Thai nationals.
A Thai court issued arrest warrants against eight people -- one Thai woman, four Turkish men and three foreign men whose nationalities were not identified.
One of the four Turkish men is Emrah Davutoglu, the husband of Thai suspect Wanna Suansan, whose warrant was issued Tuesday on a charge of possessing unauthorized military hardware in connection with the Bangkok bombing, said police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri Wednesday.
A Turkish militant group, the Grey Wolves, was named by an analyst from defense analysis group IHS-Jane's as potentially being behind the attacks. The analyst said the group had sympathy over the deportation of 109 Uyghur people from Thailand to China in July.
Thailand's police chief spoke out against any assumptions over the motives for the crime following the comments.