2015-08~09
http://www.itv.com/news/story/2015-08-18/hunt-for-bangkok-bombing-suspect-after-22-killed-and-123-injured/

Bangkok bomb suspect 'has fled to Turkey' - ITV News
A key suspect in the Bangkok bombing has fled to Turkey, say police in Thailand.
Earlier on Monday, two men and a woman were detained in Malaysia in connection with last month's bomb blast which killed 20 and injured more than 120..
A key suspect in the Bangkok bombing has fled to Turkey, The Associated Press reports, citing police in Thailand.
Twenty people died in the blast, including one British citizen.
Two men and a woman have been detained in Malaysia in connection with last month's bomb blast in Bangkok which killed 20.
Inspector General Khalid Abu Bakar said they were of Pakistani national and Malaysian nationality.
The arrests were made following a tip-off by Thai authorities.
The August 17 blast at the Erawan Shrine in the Thai capital also injured more than 120.
The fingerprints of one of the arrested suspects in last month's deadly Bangkok bombing match those found on "bomb-making material", Thailand police have said.

 BREAKING: Thai police say arrested suspect's fingerprints same as ones on bomb-making material.

A second foreign suspect has been arrested in connection with last month's Bangkok bombing, Thailand's Prime Minister confirmed today.
The arrest comes two days after a 28-year-old "foreigner" was detained by police during a raid at a flat in the north of the capital.
The male suspect was arrested in Sa Kaeo province, which is east of Bangkok on the border with Cambodia, Prayuth said.
"We have arrested one more, he is not a Thai," Prayuth told reporters after a weekly cabinet meeting.
Thailand's police chief has praised officers investigating the bombing in bangkok which killed 20 people two weeks ago. And has promised to split a $83,000 reward between them for catching a suspect that they have yet managed to tie directly to the attack.
Standing behind a podium topped with three bundles of banknotes, Somyot Pumpanmuang commended the detective work after the arrest of a foreign national whose name and nationality still remain a mystery.
"The accomplished work that led to the arrest is truly the work of the authorities and their investigative abilities... This was the work of the Thai authorities, there were no tip-offs." Somyot told a news conference.
Police have been criticised for a patchy investigation and have yet to say if the man arrested has provided any information or if his DNA samples, seized explosives, fake passports or telephone records connect him to the bombing at Bangkok's most famous shrine a fortnight ago.
Thai Police have issued an arrest warrant for a 26-year-old Thai woman and a foreign man in connection with the deadly blast in Bangkok two weeks ago.
It comes after a raid on a suburban apartment block uncovered possible bomb-making materials, a force spokesman said.
Fertilizer, digital watches and an explosives detonator were found in the property in the Min Buri district, he added.
Twenty people, who were mostly tourists, were killed when a bomb tore through the crowded Erawan Shrine on August 17, injuring more than 100 others.
Police arrested a 28-year-old foreigner in a high-profile raid on Saturday at a building in nearby Nong Chok, where officers discovered explosives and piles of fake passports.
Police in Thailand have widened their search for more suspects in connection with the Bangkok bombing after a man was arrested yesterday.
The suspect, who was described as a 28-year-old "foreigner" by police, was detained during a raid at a flat in the north of the capital.
Officers said fake passports and bomb-making materials including detonators and metal pipes were also found.
The man is being held on charges of possessing illegal explosives and has been in Thailand since January 2014.
Twenty people, who were mostly tourists, were killed when a bomb tore through the crowded Erawan Shrine on August 17, injuring more than 100 others.
A suspect has been arrested in Bangkok in connection with the bombing that killed 20 people in Thailand's capital 12 days ago.
The man is thought to be a 28-year-old Turkish national, a police spokesman has said.
When officers raided his flat in a northern Bangkok suburb they found materials including detonators and metal pipes for making bombs, which police said were the same type as those used in the bombing of the Erawan shrine.
They also found dozens of passports, one with his photo.
Police in Thailand have arrested a man in connection with a bombing in Bangkok that killed 20 people on August 17.
Police raided an apartment used in northern Bangkok and also discovered possible bomb-making materials, according to a national police spokesman.
Prawut Thavornsiri said the suspect "looks like the one we are looking for".
"They also found a lot of materials which can be used to 
make bombs", he added.
The bomb tore through the city's crowded Erawan Shrine in Bangkok's 
commercial heart and most of the victims were tourists.
A Thai TV station apologises after dressing up a member of staff as the Bangkok bombing suspect and sending him to the scene of the blast.


 A Thai TV station apologises after dressing up a member of staff as the Bangkok bombing suspect and sending him to the scene of the blast.



 Friends have paid tribute to a London law student who was killed in Monday's bomb blast in Bangkok.


 By using this site, you agree we can set and use cookies.
 For more details of these cookies and how to disable them,
 see our cookie policy.
