2015-08~09
http://funs.co/2015/09/16/face-off-carly-fiorina-fires-back-at-trump-in-new-ad/

Face Off: Carly Fiorina Fires Back At Trump In New Ad | Funs.co
Carly Florina has released her latest campaign ad, and it’s a response to comments Donald Trump made about her face. Cenk Uygur and Ana Kasparian (The Point), hosts of the The Young Turks, break it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“The super PAC backing Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina is out with a new ad responding to Donald Trump’s pejorative comments about her appearance.
The ad, paid for by the Carly for America Committee, features a series of faces of women and girls. In the background, Fiorina is heard saying, “Ladies, look at this face, and look at all of your faces — the face of leadership.”
That remark, which Fiorina made on Friday to the Federation of Republican Women in Arizona, plays off recent comments by Trump, one of Fiorina’s rivals for the GOP presidential nomination. In an interview with Rolling Stone, Trump remarked on the appearance of the only female candidate in the Republican field.”*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.