2015-08~09
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Bangkok-bomb:-three-arrests-in-Malaysia.-Hunt-on-for-mastermind-of-attack-35302.html

MALAYSIA - THAILAND Bangkok bomb: three arrests in Malaysia. Hunt on for "mastermind" of attack
Kuala Lumpur (AsiaNews / Agencies) - Malaysian police have arrested three people in an operation linked to the investigation on the attack in Bangkok on August 17 last. The arrested are a Pakistani man and two Malaysians, a man and a woman. The arrests allegedly took place thanks to a tip of the Thai police.
So far their extradition to Thailand is not planned. The cooperation between the two police forces began in recent days, when Bangkok learned that the suspects had fled to south to Malaysia.

Meanwhile, Thai police have issued an arrest warrant for Abudusataer Abudureheman - also called "Izaan" (or "Ishan") - The man suspected of having organized the bomb attack that caused 20 deaths and more than a hundred wounded in Erawan temple in central Bangkok. The police discovered his identity last week and describe him as a man of 27 years, an ethnic Uyghur, from China.
The suspected Uyghur origins of the alleged offender raises suspicions that the attack is in revenge for  Bangkok’s forced repatriation of  nearly 100 Uyghurs to China at the beginning of July.

Thai police accuse the man of illegal possession of military equipment. Its traces were found in an appartament in Bangkok where chemical material and false passports were also found.
According to witnesses, Izaan left Thailand a few days before the explosion, for China and then Bangladesh. Bangladeshi authorities say the suspect left the country on August 30 with a ticket for a stopover in Delhi, but that he never reached his destination.
Although most of the suspects (12 so far) are alleged foreigners - Turkish and Chinese - Thai police still refuse to treat investigations as an international terrorist attack.
Denounced by lawyer for Bilal Mohammed, Chinese Uyghur, one of the two indicted and due to appear tomorrow before the military court. Military junta reject claims: "Nothing has been done to the suspects while they were under arrest." Many gray areas in the investigation, declared closed several times and then reopened.

 
AsiaNews spoke to Josephine, one of hundreds of Christians from Al-Hasakah, who spent a year in the hands of the Islamic State group. She talked about psychological suffering, conversion attempts, and separation from her male relatives. She survived thanks to her faith. Her mother Caroline, a Caritas official, is the only one in her family to have been spared the ordeal. She also negotiated their release with IS, and gave a Jihadi copies of the Bible. Now she hopes “to meet the pope” with her entire family.
Sister Rani Maria was killed in 1995, stabbed 54 times. The murderer was a radical Hindu, incited by village leaders, who wanted to stop the nun's activities in favor of tribal poor. The path "that led me to forgive Samunder Singh has not been easy, but now he's my brother." Instead, "my mother said once: 'I would kiss his hands, because on them there is the blood of my daughter'." The exchange of the Indian bracelet that celebrates love between siblings; the moment of encounter with the victim's mother.

 
2003 © All rights reserved - AsiaNews C.F. e P.Iva: 00889190153 - GLACOM®
Copyright ÂŠ 2003 AsiaNews C.F. 00889190153 All rights reserved. Content on this site is made available for personal, non-commercial use only. You may not reproduce, republish, sell or otherwise distribute the content or any modified or altered versions of it without the express written permission of the editor. Photos on AsiaNews.it are largely taken from the internet and thus considered to be in the public domain. Anyone contrary to their publication need only contact the editorial office which will immediately proceed to remove the photos.