2015-08~09
http://www.sputniknews.com/politics/20150924/1027437566/us-social-engineering-europe-refugees.html

US Using 'Controlled Chaos' Strategy for Social Engineering in Europe
Since 2007 Washington has been busy engineering the overthrow and destruction of established political regimes across the Middle East and North African (MENA) region, notes Bangkok-based geopolitical researcher Tony Cartalucci, adding that destitute refugees who are now storming European shores have become "pawns of war."
"European civilization's worst and most dangerous enemy are those currently in power in Washington, London, and Brussels. It was these special interests who intentionally created chaos across the MENA region, knowing full well the catastrophe it would precipitate not only for Africa and the Middle East, but for Europe and Eurasia," Tony Cartalucci told Sputnik.
According to the geopolitical researcher, US policymakers knew and planned the inevitable influx of refugees in Europe.
"It would be difficult to believe that any nation would wage war on another in the manner the United States has and not anticipate massive refugee crises resulting. What is more likely is that US policymakers knew and planned for the inevitable influx of refugees, essentially ‘weaponizing' them in an attempt to manipulate public perception and provoke long-sought after support for more direct military intervention in Syria against the government in Damascus, and wars even beyond Syria," Cartalucci underscored.
It has been apparently supposed that the refugees would be stationed temporarily in Turkey and then unleashed into Europe when it ideally suited Washington's geopolitical purposes.
When experts suggest that Washington's ultimate goal is to destabilize the Eurasian continent from Western Europe to China's periphery in the East it, unfortunately, goes beyond mere speculation, the researcher remarked.
"Entire policy papers have been produced by America's most prominent policymakers for decades regarding the encirclement and containment of China, starting with the infamous ‘Pentagon Papers' exposed by the New York Times in 1971, and up to and including one of the most recent papers, one of which was published this year by the Council on Foreign Relations titled, ‘Revising US Grand Strategy Toward China,' which specifically mentions China's attempts to stabilize this ‘controlled chaos' and how the US can prevent Beijing from doing so," Cartalucci elaborated.
In his latest article "Turkish-Uyghur Terror Inc. — America's Other Al Qaeda" Toni Cartalucci highlighted that Islamic extremists — either al-Qaeda in the Middle East, or the so-called East Turkestan independence movement (ETIM) of Uyghur Islamists —  are the US central instrument in achieving their geopolitical objectives on the Eurasian continent.
Originating from Cold War era clandestine organizations the Turkish Uyghur terror network poses a threat not only to China's integrity but to the security of the Asian region as a whole.
Meanwhile the refugee crisis in Europe is spinning out of control, prompting ethnic tensions and triggering clashes with police. The question remains open what are the possible consequences of the growing influx of asylum seekers in Europe?
"The consequences of the refugee crisis will be wrought solely from how controlled opposition on both sides of the spectrum attempt to manipulate public perception and agitate peace and stability among European society. The ultimate goal, as we can already see manifesting itself, is to justify increased surveillance and control at home, and justify further wars of hegemony abroad. Such measures are not possible without a crisis substantial enough for people to be fearful and willing enough to trade their freedom, peace, and prosperity in exchange for supposed 'security'," Cartalucci told Sputnik.
The geopolitical researcher cited infamous war Nazi war criminal Hermann Göring's remarks published in Gilbert's Nuremberg Diary (1947), which read:
"Can anyone deny this elementary methodology isn't being eagerly employed by the social engineers of North American and European policy circles today in a bid to justify and thus continue their destructive campaigns across MENA, along the peripheries of China, and even along Russia's borders themselves?" the geopolitical researcher asked rhetorically.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.