2015-08~09
http://funs.co/2015/09/19/bristol-palin-thinks-ahmed-mohamed-white-house-visit-demonizes-cops/

Bristol Palin Thinks Ahmed Mohamed White House Visit Demonizes Cops | Funs.co
Bristol Palin has chimed in on Ahmed Mohamed getting arrested for building a clock and bringing it to school. Her focus centered on President Obama inviting the teen to the White House. She thinks it plays into Black Lives Matter and victimhood. Cenk Uygur, Ana Kasparian (The Point), Jaclyn Glenn (JaclynGlenn), and Jimmy Dore (The Jimmy Dore Show) hosts of The Young Turks discuss.
Are you upset that Ahmed Mohamed was invited to the White House by the President? Why is Bristol so upset? Let us know in the comments below.
“Bristol Palin is slamming President Obama for inviting to the White House a 14-year-old student arrested after bringing a homemade clock to school, saying the move “encourages more racial strife.”
Ahmed Mohamed, a Muslim student living in Irving, Texas, was suspended from school after teachers at his high school mistook his clock for a bomb. No charges were filed against the ninth-grader.
“This is the kind of stuff Obama needs to STAY out of,” Palin, the 24-year-old daughter of former GOP vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin, wrote in a Thursday blog post the day after Obama invited Mohamed to the White House via a tweet.
“This encourages more racial strife that is already going on with the ‘Black Lives Matter’ crowd and encourages victimhood,” wrote Palin, a “Dancing With the Stars” alum.”
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.