2015-08~09
http://www.smh.com.au/world/twelfth-suspect-sought-for-bangkok-bombing-20150912-gjl9tz

Twelfth suspect sought for Bangkok bombing
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News, My Clippings, My Comments and user settings.
Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
Thai police say a second suspect in the recent blast outside a Hindu shrine in Bangkok admits to charges of possession of explosive devices, as they issue arrest warrants for two more men.
Bangkok: An arrest warrant has been issued for a 12th suspect in connection with the August 17 bombing at a Bangkok landmark that killed 20 people.
Police spokesman Lieutenant General Prawut Thavornsiri said on Saturday the charge against Abudusataer Abudureheman is illegal possession of military hardware.
Police identified the suspect as a 27-year-old ethnic Uighur from China who also uses the name "Ishan".

 A CCTV image shows a man near the site of the Bangkok shrine bomb attack shortly before the blast.
 Photo: Khaosod English

Thai officials said on Friday that they think Ishan may have fled to China, and have asked the authorities there to trace him.
Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha has suggested the bombers may have been from a gang involved in smuggling Uighurs from the Chinese region of Xinjiang, while others speculate they may be separatists or Islamist extremists angry that Thailand recently repatriated more than 100 Uighurs to China.
Authorities believe most of the suspects are foreigners, from China and Turkey, which hosts a large number of Uighurs.
They have so far declined to identify the bombing as an act of international terrorism, out of apparent fear that it will hurt the country's huge tourism industry, AP reported.
Two suspects have been arrested in connection with the bombing at the popular Erawan Shrine, one with a fake Turkish passport and the other with a Chinese passport that, as in Ishan's case, describes him as coming from Xinjiang with a name that would typically belong to a Uighur.
Thai officials say that two suspects, including the man they believe may have actually planted the bomb, may have fled across Thailand's southern border to Malaysia. 

 Compare variable rates as low as 3.99% p.a. now

 All Galaxy S7 plans from all major telcos available now

 Grab a bargain on one of the year's best phones