2015-08~09
http://www.newsfultoncounty.com/world/news/267912-diary-86

Diary | Fulton News
– The main stories that Anadolu Agency’s English News Desk will cover on Wednesday, August 26, 2015

ANKARA – Here are the main stories that Anadolu Agency’s English News Desk plans to cover on Wednesday, August 26, 2015:
ANKARA – A growing number of small Turkish companies have produced innovative technology and businesses, and they now compete on world markets.
ANKARA – Global trade has contracted to the lowest levels seen since the 2008 financial crisis.
NEW YORK – UN Security Council to hear briefing from UN’s Libya envoy Leon on political dialogue in the country.
HEIDENAU – German Chancellor Merkel to visit asylum seekers’ shelter in eastern town of Heidenau, after wave of far-right attacks against refugees in the country.
PARIS -UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon  and French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius  to hold joint press conference in Paris on the sidelines of an environment-focused session being hosted by French Foreign Ministry.
ADDIS ABABA – South Sudanese President Kiir expected to sign peace deal.
Algeria uses army three times in 16 months to disperse protests
ALGIERS – Algerian President Bouteflika has used the army three times in 16 months to deal with protests in different cities across the country, despite the presence of powerful internal security forces.
HARARE, Zimbabwe – A signpost along a street in the Zimbabwean capital Harare directs motorists and pedestrians to a bushy area near the Harare International Airport.
BANGKOK – Fate of Uighur still detained in Thailand hangs in the balance.
YANGON – A total of 101 boat people reportedly remain at camp in Myanmar as officials wait to send them to Bangladesh
TOKYO – Prime Minister Abe asks U.S. President Obama to probe allegations that high-level Japanese government and corporate officials were spied on, after WikiLeaks releases list of alleged targets of U.S.’ National Security Agency .
Diary added by Kristoff Saunders on August 26, 2015View all posts by Kristoff Saunders →