2015-08~09
http://www.shanghaidaily.com/national/Xinjiang-set-to-intensify-battle-with-terrorism/shdaily.shtml

Xinjiang set to intensify battle with terrorism | Shanghai Daily
Follow us @  | Shanghai Call Center: 962288 |  Mobile Version  |  THU, APR 18, 2013
THE battle against terror-related violence in northwest China’s Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region is being intensified, according to a senior official.
“With the concerted efforts of people, and the construction of our legal system, a people’s war against terrorism will be deepened in Xinjiang and, eventually, the people will win,” Akber Eklam, deputy head of the region’s Higher People’s Court, said yesterday.
“Xinjiang has been a main battlefield of anti-terrorism. Terror-related violence has been targeted with harsh punishment according to the law. It has showed the perpetrators their eventual outcomes,” he said.
Citing an amendment to the Criminal Law, passed last month, Eklam said the added terms, which target terrorism and extremism, cover “the whole chain of terror-related crimes.”
“The different steps of organizing, leading, planning, executing, funding, instigating and communication in terror cases are all covered by the amendment. It shows a resolute action to exterminate the evils of terrorism,” he said.
Xinjiang has experienced a rise in terror-related cases. Up to April, 181 terror groups had been dismantled during a campaign that was launched after a market bombing in the regional capital of Urumqi that killed 39 people on May 22, 2014.
More than 96 percent of terror groups were thwarted at the planning stage, and 112 suspects had turned themselves in to the police, according to official figures.
The public has also been helping in the fight against terrorism. In August last year, thousands of volunteers helped police chase suspects in Karakax County.
Mamat Turson, a farmer who took part, said at the time: “If the terrorists dared to show up again, my family will catch these evil men and bring them to law enforcement.”
Earlier this week, senior officials vowed to continue assistance to Xinjiang.
Yu Zhengsheng, chairman of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference’s national committee, said more work was needed to build “the ability to battle terrorism and maintain stability.”
Xinjiang will receive aid in anti-terrorism efforts at grassroots level, he said.
Kindly remind you that you have reached your weekly limit of 20 free stories.
Kindly remind you that your 1-week free trial has expired. Thank you for your interest in our products.
To continue using full functionality of our site, please subscribe below.

Education, 
 Entertainment and culture, Environment,
 Expat community, 
 Health and science, Society, 
 In-depth, Services...

Art and culture, 
 Community, Education, 
 Animal planet, Travel...

Book, City Scene,
 Film, Home and design,
 Now and Then, Style,
 Technology, The Week...

 Copyright © 1999- Shanghai Daily. All rights reserved.Preferably
 viewed with Internet Explorer 8 or newer browsers.
