2015-08~09
http://www.dawn.com/news/1204443/pakistan-says-almost-all-uighur-militants-eliminated

Pakistan says "almost all" Uighur militants eliminated - Pakistan - DAWN.COM
BEIJING: Almost all members of the Uighur militant group the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) have been eliminated from Pakistan, President Mamnoon Hussain said on Wednesday during a visit to Beijing.
China blames violent unrest in its far western region of Xinjiang on separatist groups like ETIM, who it says want to set up an independent state called East Turkestan and have bases in countries like Pakistan and Afghanistan.
Many foreign experts, however, have questioned whether ETIM exists as the coherent group China claims it is.
Also read: China asks US to help fight Muslim militants in Xinjiang region
Meeting Chinese President Xi Jinping in the Great Hall of the People, President Mamnoon said Operation Zarb-i-Azb "has been successful in eradicating the terrorism from our country".
"It has also been very helpful in eliminating the ETIM element from our country and I think almost all the ETIM people in our country have been eliminated. Maybe, if they are there, there should be very few," Hussain said.
Pakistan and China reiterated their commitment to the completion of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor projects in a timely manner.
President Mamnoon said special measures have been taken for the security of Chinese nationals in Pakistan, Radio Pakistan reported.
China and Pakistan are "iron brothers" and always help each other "with great zeal", he added. The president is in China to attend a military parade marking the 70th end of World War Two in Asia.
Also read: President Mamnoon leaves for China to attend military parade
Hundreds have died in violence in Xinjiang in the past few years, blamed by Beijing on the militants. Rights groups say the real cause of the unrest is Chinese restrictions on the Islamic faith and culture of the Uighur people who call the region home.
China says ETIM recruits Uighurs who have gone to Turkey and trains them with extremist groups in Syria and Iraq, with the intent of returning to Xinjiang to wage holy war.
During President Xi's visit to Pakistan in April, Pakistani and Chinese officials signed a series of more than 50 accords to inaugurate the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, which will create a network of roads, railways and pipelines linking China's restive west to the Arabian Sea through Pakistan.
The project is part of Beijing's “Belt and Road” plan to expand its trade and transport footprint across Central and South Asia. It will give China easier access to Middle Eastern oil via the deepwater port of Gwadar.
Then there have been security concerns over much of the plan, which relies on developing Gwadar — control of which was passed to a Chinese company in 2013.
Take a look: Security fears for China-Pakistan corridor as Xi ends visit
The port lies near the mouth of the Gulf of Oman, east of the Strait of Hormuz through which much of the Middle East's crude production passes.
But linking Gwadar to the rest of Pakistan and on to the western Chinese city of Kashgar, 3,000 kilometres away, would involve major infrastructure work in Balochistan. This is one of Pakistan's most unstable provinces and has been dogged for over a decade by a bloody separatist insurgency.
Ethnic Baloch rebels, who oppose Gwadar's development while the province is not independent, have in the past blown up numerous gas pipelines and trains and attacked Chinese engineers.
Earlier in April, the army formally announced the creation of a 10,000-man strong special force for protecting the development projects to be carried out under CPEC and the Chinese workers associated with them.
Pakistan and China are iron brothers, our friendship is higher ghan Himalaya and deeper than sea.I don't think I have ever heard chinese leadeship using this kind of pharases. They sound like personal friendship of lovers , nations relationships are based on mutual interest and common values, a president should emphasize our common values and interest in his speech.
This sound more like an act of appeasement .
Many are scared about the achievements of Pakistan Army, and they must be scared!!
means all bad militants eliminated. those who are threat to your way of living don't exist anymore , those who are threat to our way of living will persist
Pakistan should also insist china that Uighur be given liberty to practice Islam freely.
Its strange during China victory parade except Russia all major countries declined china's invitation for army parade. Game is so clear
The uighur population is fighting a repressive regime that is forcing them to denounce islam on the one hand. On the otherhand, we, their natural brothers are busy popping them off instead of using diplomacy to help them earn their God given right to practice freely the religion they choose.
Good job Pakistan, in helping the Chinese upress a people fighting for their religious freedom. Must be a proud moment for the Islamic state of Pakistan.
Is our president dreaming ?
We have terrorists attacks daily and he is claiming it has been wiped out??
BTW... What was the purpose of this visit ... ??
@M Khan China doesn't consider Pakistan as its friend. China is all about its national interest and has deep ties with India as well.
Pakistan Armed Forces did what many others could only dream. Long live Pakistan - China friendship. Pakistan will never allow any militancy from its land. Pakistan is a land of peace & wants to live in peace with all especially its neighbors. Only if the neighbor understood it.
That means this region was the hub for militants. It shows all denial so far and now claiming success in eliminating now
We should also eliminate the corrupt politicians along with the wrong doers
How much explaining & assuring does Pakistan have to do to world leaders on a regular basis about terrorism on its soil. A few days ago it was to the US, then Germany & now China. I hope lessons have been learned & Pakistan changes its perception in the world so that it is no longer looked at, only through the prism of terrorism but through that of trade & commerce.
The government of China should take a wise step and allow people to practice their religions. History has proven that suppression of religion has negative implications for the country. Practice of religion is a basic human right which needs to be protected by every civilized government and not denied.
Please request Chinese president to allow believers fasting rights during Holi Ramadan month.
@Abdulla Hussain but it allowed these militancy for so long which the world has been pointing out so far
Meeting of equals, who will define the future of the world and world's future is in safe hands.
so they have eliminated the separatist. but has anyone ever though why they were formed in the first place ? .it was because the Muslims there are repressed they are not allowed you practice Islam freely .there area is less developed then the rest of China .hence they asked for a free independent state kinda seems like the story of Pakistan doesn't it ?.Pakistan should support there cause diplomatically because the real root cause of this discontent remains unresolved !
@el cid 
Are they twin brothers ? or one is elder and bigger brother ?
@Dost 'Almost" is not confusing at all. It clearly indicates more is needed to do more.
so till now you had Uighur camps which were inimical to your 'Iron Brother'??
Pakistani's live with a false sense of grandeur. A country reeling with economic hardships, internal conflicts within provinces, external conflict with all immediate neighbours. 
Seems it is biting more than it can chew! Why don't you guys first fix up some internal problems and your economy before expecting the world to give you more importance?
For such, one can't say 100 percent so "Almost" is used.
"almost all" being the operative word. Is Xinjiang going to be another Kashmir?
Where is the pakistan in the list of best friends "President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and President Park Geun-hye of South Korea will be in the viewing stands at Tiananmen Square"
@ukz Why would Pakistan interfere in China's internal matters ? Pakistan is not India.
Terrorism results due to injustice both China and Pakistan should eliminate injustice in their respective domains Pakistan in Karachi Baluchistan and FATA, China in Xinjiang. Terrorism will die a natural death.
Good job Pakistan Army...finally and soon Pakistan will be clean of terror and all the bad things...Inshahallah...long live Pakistan Army...Long live Pakistan China friendship.
@Diego just like Indians dream that they are superpower well see what is happening in Gujrat see the UP where Muslims are being targeted see how ur internal situation is bad the only difference is we highlight our problems and try to eradicate but ur media always show a happy modi face and do nothing stop pointing finger at other and look in ur own country ....also read the usa state dpt report of how the terrorism has declined in Pakistan...
@VECTRA and what about 7 lac barbaric Indian army who is trying to get Kashmir by killing more then 1 lac kashmiris in 68 years but failed? try to solve your own problems first my dear
Is it the same province of China where Muslims can't keep beard and are encouraged not to fast during Ramzan.?
@timetostopthis @zak 
Dear friend it seems you do not have any sense of humor. Please enjoy the satire.
What hypocrisy! Are Uighars lesser Muslims compared to Kashmiris, Palestinians and Chechens etc?
The fact is Uighars are brutally oppressed by the Chinese. If we had any REAL friendship and mutual respect with China, our leaders would press the Chinese for reforms. This proves that the so called relationship which is "higher than the Himalayas and deeper than the oceans" is in fact a shallow transactional pact and nothing more.
Sure, after you have eliminated RAW and its evil designs against the world peace..
Sadly, I totally agree with your statement. Facts and realities on grounds do show such a case.
@Mqm-me "China doesn't consider Pakistan as its friend." -- You should have taken a look at Chinese social media during the days when CPEC was first announced by Xi Jinping in the Pakistani parliament and you would have seen the numerous ordinary Chinese calling Pakistan their "iron friend." And no, these were not government-controlled drones, Chinese social media is one place where Chinese people can almost totally freely express themselves.
Pak politicians need to learn not to make such "almost" sweeping statements. What's wrong with saying that we are making good progress and we are committed to eliminating Uighur terrorists seeking sanctuary inside Pak.
those who kill innocent women and children in the name of religion regardless of their cause (just or not) is NEVER allowed in any religion, God forbids killing innocents thus who do are terrorists and cold blooded murders and must face the music regardless of their cause.
Dear all you Indians and Indians hiding behind American user names: We know what direction we want to take with China, China's national interests neatly dovetail with ours, and it is our entire nation's decision to proceed on the path of cooperation with China in all areas. So save your fingers the trouble of typing your spam, because no amount of appeals to Muslim solidarity will make us stray from our path of cooperation with China and make an issue of the Uighur people's so-called "oppression." The Uighur "freedom struggle" is a fraud being cooked up from Frankfurt, Germany and the last thing we will do is support a plot hatched by a back-stabbing West against our time-tested friend China.
That is great. I assume that this means no more terrorist attack in Pakistan as well. Finally we can sleep without worrying where the next attack will occur. Also, I hope "almost" means around 99.99%.
Intermittent president with intermittent statement. I seriously doubt the credibility of our president. He has never been debriefed about the reality on ground neither he cares.
China is suppressing our Uighur Muslim brothers and we say eliminated them. Why this distinction when it comes to China? Why are we not providing them with 'moral and diplomatic support'?
One side there is support for Kashmiris and other side there is suppression of Uighurs.
This will come and hurt Pakistan big time in future.
Is Pakistan eliminating Uighur militants in return for China funding CPEC? If yes, this is tantamount to being paid to perform its duty i.e eliminate terrorists. Frankly, this is a very sad commentary on state of affairs in Pakistan
@joe there are 2 other Muslim groups in China and they live very normally only issue with the uighurs is the foreign sponsored seperatism. Xinjiangh province is not a disputed territory. But Kashmir sure is.
@JAI there's much less terrorism here now than in your india where 10 people were just killed in manipur and where communal/ethnic tensions are super high
"The real cause of the unrest is Chinese restrictions on the Islamic faith and culture of the Uighur people "... and I wonder how can Pakistan support that given its creation is based on that very reason. Please leadership look further, it is not good for Pakistan.
Russia has its own reasons to cosy up to China and very genuine ones too. They are at loggerheads with the west and need new markets for their products. What market s bigger and better than China, the next door neighbour ?
Pakistan sadly it seems has accepted the Chinese invite only to appease the big neighbour. Something just doesn't add up in the relationship between China and Pak, they are far too clever to give anything to any nation for free.

Hopes fade for students buried under snow in Chitral 


PM pins hopes on Rouhani’s visit for closer economic cooperation


Musharraf struck no deal for going abroad, says PML-Q president


Rangers detain MQM leader for 90 days in renewed crackdown


Our team has the killer instinct to beat any opponent: Sana Mir


‘Team to do well in upcoming matches; Afridi charismatic leader’


Over 1,600 migrants arrive in Greece as EU struggles to implement deal
