2015-08~09
http://funs.co/2015/09/16/emily-blunt-jokes-she-regretted-becoming-a-citizen-after-gop-debate/

Emily Blunt Jokes She Regretted Becoming A Citizen After GOP Debate | Funs.co
Recently actress Emily Blunt was talking to The Hollywood Reporter about the fact that she is now a citizen in the United States. She was born in London, so she had to apply for citizenship, which was recently granted. She joked about how horrible the Republican debate was and Fox News rallied to the defense of Team Clown Car. Cenk Uygur and Ana Kasparian (The Point), hosts of the The Young Turks, break it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“Actress Emily Blunt recently joked that she questioned her decision to be come a United States citizen following the first Republican presidential debate.
“I became an American citizen recently, and that night, we watched the Republican debate and I thought, ‘This was a terrible mistake. What have I done?'” she told The Hollywood Reporter at the Toronto International Film Festival in an interview published on Monday.
Blunt also mentioned that she was impressed by Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA).”*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.