2015-08~09
http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-09-15/thai-police-link-deadly-bangkok-blast-to-uighur-trafficking

Thai Police Link Deadly Bangkok Blast to Uighur Trafficking - Bloomberg Business
Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
Thai police said they believe last month’s deadly bombing in central Bangkok was carried out by a criminal syndicate that smuggled Uighur Muslims from China and was upset by the military government’s crackdown on human trafficking.
“The bomb on Aug. 17 that hurt our nation happened because Thailand cracked down or obstructed the human trafficking gang,” Police Chief Somyot Poompanmoung told reporters Tuesday in Bangkok. “This made them angry and created problems for them until they came to stage this event.”
Somyot said the attack happened for “the same reason” the Thai consulate in Turkey was trashed by rioters in July. Somyot would appear to be the first Thai official to publicly link the blast that killed 20 people at Bangkok’s Erawan Shrine to Thailand’s controversial deportation of more than 100 Uighurs to China. That event set off the Istanbul riot and was condemned by governments and rights groups around the world.
“What we did was in line with the law,” Somyot said. “But emotion is another story. We can’t stop the anger.”
Uighurs are a Turkic-speaking ethnic minority in western China. Many Uighurs seeking to escape what they say is repression by Chinese authorities make the journey through Southeast Asia in an attempt to resettle in Turkey. Rights groups say Uighurs returned to China risk discrimination, detention and possibly torture. China denies those claims.
Recent developments in the case have pointed to a link to Uighurs or Uighur sympathizers, though Thai officials had previously denied it.
Other Thai officials including Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha still doubt that Uighurs or a group sympathetic to their cause carried out the attack.
“I don’t think it is related for now,” Prayuth told reporters Tuesday.“If it does turn out to be Uighurs, we need to consider what we should do. They can’t force the government like this.”
Your browser is out-of-date. Please download one of these excellent browsers:Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Opera or Internet Explorer.