2015-08~09
http://funs.co/2015/09/12/republicans-cant-stop-the-iran-nuclear-deal/

Republicans Can’t Stop The Iran Nuclear Deal | Funs.co
Republicans in the House have rejected President Obama’s nuclear deal with Iran, at least symbolically. Cenk Uygur, Ben Mankiewicz (Turner Classic Movies), John Iadarola (Think Tank), and Wes Clark Jr., hosts of the The Young Turks, break it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“The House on Friday rejected a resolution to approve the Iran nuclear deal, with the vote underscoring how controversial the accord has been with President Obama’s own party.
While most Democrats voted to approve the nuclear bargain, 25 voted against it, creating a wedge that Republicans hope to use to their advantage in the 2016 elections.
Every Republican voted against the resolution, with the exception of libertarian Rep. Thomas Massie (R-Ky.), who voted “present.” The tally was 162-269.”*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.