2015-08~09
http://d24.in/bangkok-bombing-thai-police-arrested-suspect-in-connection-with-attack/

Bangkok bombing: Thai police arrested suspect in connection with attack
Bangkok Bombing: The arrest of a Turkish suspect is the first significant step of the investigation, 12 days after the tragedy that had killed 20 people and over 120 injured.
Turkish suspect was arrested Saturday, August 29 in the investigation of the deadly attack in Bangkok, possession of materials to make a bomb. This is the first significant step of the investigation 12 days after the tragedy. “L’Observateur” an update.
“The suspect is of Turkish nationality,” announced Colonel Banphot Phunphien, spokesman for the ruling junta. “He has several passports,” the spokesman, declining to specify its identity.
The alleged leader of the murderous attack in Bangkok was motivated by a “private dispute” and the track of international terrorism seems “unlikely”, police said on Saturday.
The Turkish passport of a man named Adem Karadag, 28, was shown on television, and dozens of fraudulent Turkish passports.
“We can not yet say whether he is the man of the sketch”, established from CCTV images of a man suspected of having planted the bomb, warns General Chaktip .
According to the arrest warrant, and the composite sketch released by the Thai authorities, there is an “unidentified foreigner”, tall, light-skinned, wearing a yellow shirt and black rimmed glasses. He was heard speaking a foreign language other than English.
This is the first arrest, twelve days after the explosion in this Hindu shrine located in central Bangkok, which killed 20 people and left over 120 injured, including many Asian tourists.
What is the evidence that accuse the suspect according to Thai police?
Thai police released a photo of the man when he was arrested in his apartment in the eastern outskirts of Bangkok, with the seized items be sealed and placed on the carpet at his feet.
Among them, “manufacturing materials of a bomb,” said General Chaktip Chaijinda, deputy head of the national police, saying “confident that it is probably involved in the attack” which had 20 died August 17 in the center of Bangkok.
A shirt with traces of TNT is part of the seized objects.
This announcement highlights the track, so far evoked among other assumptions, an attack carried out in retaliation for the expulsion in July in Bangkok a hundred Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking Muslim minority oppressed in China.
This group has increased the violence, often at knife attacks. But they never led attack outside China as neither a sophisticated attack that the explosion of the Erawan Shrine in Bangkok, frequented by Chinese tourist’s sanctuary.
In July, at the call of an association working for the rights of Uighurs, some 200 people had sacked in July the Thai Consulate in Istanbul to protest the decision to Bangkok.
With no claim so far, that the arrest should help remove the mystery, so far around to attack, on an unprecedented scale in Thailand.
So far, the Thai police have increased the sometimes contradictory statements. Several people had been interviewed in recent days, including three Uighurs.
The police and the junta has repeatedly ruled out the possibility that the attack was the act of an international terrorist group, but some of their statements then seemed less affirmative.
Accustomed to long political crisis, Thailand has experienced several episodes of violent protests but never bomb of this type.
Islamist militants in the region have already launched attacks in South Asian countries, particularly on the Indonesian island of Bali in 2002, but Thailand has so far never been a target.
And no link was made between the attack and Muslim rebels in the south, where attacks are frequent but never of this magnitude and their struggle for greater autonomy has remained localized.
Home » Bangkok bombing: Thai police arrested suspect in connection with attack