2015-08~09
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/thailand/11838427/Arrested-suspects-fingerprints-same-as-ones-on-bomb-making-material-say-police.html

Arrested suspect's fingerprints same as ones on bomb-making material, say police - Telegraph
The fingerprints of a foreign man arrested at Thailand's border with Cambodia match those they found on a bottle containing bomb-making material, Thai police have said.
The bottle was among many items seized during a raid on Saturday of an apartment on the outskirts of Bangkok where another suspect was arrested as part of the investigation into the deadly August 17 bombing at the Erawan shrine.
Thailand's national police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri holds a tablet displaying a picture of an unnamed foreign man, wanted in connection with the Bangkok bombing.  Photo: AFP
Both suspects are being interrogated by the military and have not yet been charged.
Prawut Thavornsiri, national police spokesman, said on Wednesday that the man arrested at the border on Tuesday "is important and is related to or conspired with people" behind the bombing that killed 20 people and wounded more than 120.
Chakthip Chaijinda, Thailand's national deputy police chief, said the suspect arrested at the border speaks Turkish, which requires a translator.
He did not say whether a translator has been brought in or if the Turkish Embassy has been approached.
Speculation has grown that the suspect might be part of a group seeking to avenge Thailand's forced repatriation of ethnic Uighurs to China in July. Prayuth Chan-ocha, the Thai prime minister, on Monday linked the two theories, suggesting the bombers might have been involved in smuggling Uighurs out of China.
Uighurs are related to Turks, and Turkey is home to a large Uighur community. The Erawan shrine is especially popular with Chinese tourists, feeding the idea that it could be a target for people who believe the Uighurs are oppressed by China's government.

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
