2015-08~09
http://funs.co/2015/09/22/sarah-palin-still-thinks-kids-clock-was-a-bomb/

Sarah Palin STILL Thinks Kid’s Clock Was A Bomb | Funs.co
In the case of Ahmed Mohammed, the student arrested for bringing a clock to school while being muslim, we here at TYT told you conservatives would start attacking him. Cue Sarah Palin… Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“Former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin (R) said on Saturday that arresting and suspending Ahmed Mohamed, the ninth grader who brought a homemade clock to school, was totally reasonable.
Palin called initial media reports of Mohamed’s arrest “fishy” and said that school officials were totally justified in thinking that his clock, made out of a pencil box, was a bomb.
“Yep, believing that’s a clock in a school pencil box is like believing Barack Obama is ruling over the most transparent administration in history,” she wrote in a Facebook post in which she shared pictures of her kids’ pencil boxes. “Right. That’s a clock, and I’m the Queen of England.””*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.