2015-08~09
http://www.smh.com.au/world/courts-crackdown-in-chinas-unsettled-xinjiang-region-20150827-gj9mhy.html

Courts crackdown in China's unsettled Xinjiang region
JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript to use My News, My Clippings, My Comments and user settings.
Personalise your news, save articles to read later and customise settings
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.
If you have trouble accessing our login form below, you can go to our login page.

 Armed police patrol the streets in Urumqi, Xinjiang, last year. Photo: Sanghee Liu

Hong Kong: Courts across Xinjiang, the volatile region of western China that is home to Muslim Uighurs, have sentenced 45 people to prison in recent days after convicting them of supporting organisations accused of terror attacks or of helping others flee abroad, the main state news agency reported on Thursday.
The Xinhua report did not describe the ethnicity of the defendants, but their names indicated that they were Uighurs, the Turkic minority in Xinjiang that has become increasingly estranged from Chinese government policies, especially following restrictions on their culture and Muslim religion.
The government held up the convictions as proof that it would not tolerate violent opposition in Xinjiang, which in recent years has suffered a spate of violent attacks by Uighurs, in many instances using knives or rudimentary explosives. The government describes the attacks as terrorism, frequently masterminded from abroad, but human rights groups and advocates of Uighur self-determination have said that the violence is often primitive and locally inspired, and driven by Uighur despair.
"The people's courts have zero tolerance for terror crimes," said an unnamed official from the highest court in Xinjiang, according to Xinhua. "They will continue to use the law to strike hard against the crime of illegally leaving the country, and use the law to strike hard against criminals who flee abroad and attempt to join in jihad."
Courts in Aksu, Ili, Kashgar and other cities across Xinjiang convicted the defendants for crimes in 10 separate cases that included "organising, leading and participating in terror organisations," as well as organising people to flee abroad, Xinhua said.

 Uighur men in front of the Id Kah Mosque, Kashgar, Xinjiang, last year. Photo: Getty Images

The Chinese government has sought to stop Uighurs from leaving the region. Chinese Uighurs have often settled in Turkey after circuitous journeys through south-east and Central Asia. In July, Thailand deported about 100 Uighurs back to China.
"There have been growing numbers of Uighurs escaping from China, and this crackdown is directly related to trying to stop the escapes," said Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress, from Stockholm. 
"But I believe that the Uighurs are fleeing abroad because of the specific policies that the Chinese government has enforced to oppress them," he said. "These aren't terrorists; they're Uighurs wanting a safe place to live."

 Demonstrators set fire to a Chinese flag during a protest against China near the Chinese Consulate in Istanbul in July. Photo: Reuters

Many of the cases announced on Thursday involved people accused of organising others to leave Xinjiang, which is next to Central Asia. And the prosecutors depicted the defendants as bewitched by Islamist extremism and violent separatism.
In one case, the five defendants had fled on a truck to Tajikistan, where they were detained near the frontier with Afghanistan and sent back to China.
The prosecution charged that they wanted to join the Taliban and the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a group that China depicts as the instigator of violence in Xinjiang. Many experts are skeptical that the group is as powerful and extensive as the Chinese government says.
In another case, the prosecution claimed that the three defendants hoped to reach Turkey using fake Turkish passports so that they could join a violent group and carry out jihad, according to Xinhua.
The Xinhua report did not say whether any of the defendants had admitted to the charges against them. In China, defendants come under intense pressure to make such confessions.

 Compare variable rates as low as 3.99% p.a. now

 All Galaxy S7 plans from all major telcos available now

 Grab a bargain on one of the year's best phones