2015-08~09
http://www.timesunion.com/news/article/Suspect-in-shrine-blast-arrested-6473950.php

Suspect in shrine blast arrested - Times Union
Thai security forces raided an apartment building in a Bangkok suburb just before dawn Saturday and arrested a foreign man the authorities believe was involved in the deadly bombing of a Bangkok shrine nearly two weeks ago.
The police said they found bomb-making materials and stacks of fake Turkish passports in the apartment, but they did not announce the nationality of the suspect, or his name.
The seizures and arrest were possibly the first major breakthroughs in an investigation that has been criticized for its missteps and slow pace.
The Aug. 17 explosion at the Erawan Shrine in Bangkok's central shopping district killed 20 people and was the worst attack of its kind in recent Thai history. More than 100 people were wounded and close to three dozen remain hospitalized.
Gen. Somyot Poompanmoung, head of Thailand's national police force, said he was confident that the suspect was linked to the bombing and said he appeared to be part of a larger network.
"We believe some of them are on the run in the country and some of them may have fled the country," he said.
Somyot declined to discuss the motives of the group but described them as driven by a "personal grudge on behalf of their friends."
Thai authorities have openly said they are reluctant to describe the attack as terrorism over fears it would hurt the country's tourism industry, a growing part of an economy that has struggled in recent years. More than 20 million visitors have come to the country this year.
The shrine is especially popular among ethnic Chinese tourists from across East Asia and more than half of the dead in the bombing were ethnic Chinese, raising questions about the motive for the attack.
The Thai media speculated Saturday that any Turkish connection to the blast would increase the chances that the attack was in retaliation for Thailand's forced repatriation of around 100 ethnic Uighurs to China in July. The Uighurs are an ethnic minority in western China who speak a language related to Turkish.
But any Uighur connection to the blast remained far from certain Saturday. Copies of the passport used by the arrested suspect circulated on social media Saturday and appeared to be a crude counterfeit of a Turkish passport.