2015-08~09
http://www.economist.com/news/asia/21665016-unelected-dictatorship-thailands-government-finds-china-more-amenable-america-under

Under the umbrella | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
PRAYUTH CHAN-OCHA, Thailand’s prime minister, sometimes resembles a ham actor ad-libbing his way through an audition for a role as an unhinged dictator. “You cannot oppose me. No one will let you do that!” he told reporters this month, before threatening to deal with critics by taping their mouths shut. His junta then briefly detained a well-known journalist for publishing articles that “could cause confusion” (on release, he promptly quit his job). The regime the former army chief installed in a coup last year is digging in. This month the draft produced by a committee it appointed to write a new constitution was mysteriously rejected, delaying elections until 2017 at the earliest. Thailand’s lurch back into autocracy complicates its relations with its long-standing ally, America, which has repeatedly called for the restoration of democracy. China, however, has no such qualms. Its relations with Thailand have never been better.
Some see this as an acceleration of a long-term and irreversible trend across Asia. China’s economic rise and growing military clout help it gain diplomatic sway at America’s expense. In the words of Benjamin Zawacki, an American writer who is completing a book on Thailand’s relations with the two countries, “after half a century of being within the US sphere of influence (to varying degrees of course), Thailand is moving into that of the Chinese.” Certainly plenty of evidence can be found of mutual irritation between America and Thailand, and of the burgeoning of Thailand’s links with China. But that need not imply that the country has to choose one big powerful ally over the other.
Besides deploring the coup, America imposed some sanctions, cutting aid to the army and curtailing joint exercises and official visits. This year the State Department’s annual “Trafficking in Persons” (TiP) report kept Thailand in the category of countries where the problem is deemed to be worst. This was widely seen, despite American denials, as a political punishment. Thai officials and politicians are sensitive to American slights. The relationship is old and close, reaching its zenith during the Vietnam war, but also unequal. Thais often feel bullied and patronised. Resentment lingers at the lectures and harsh economic medicine they had to swallow after the economy imploded in 1997.
So too does gratitude for China’s early offer of help that year and for its habitual refusal to “meddle” in Thailand’s affairs by, for example, criticising coups. China is Thailand’s biggest trading partner; of the nearly 25m tourists who visited last year 4.6m came from China, more than from any other country. Ties would receive a further boost from the high-speed railway China is planning from its south-western province of Yunnan, through Laos to Bangkok and eventually Singapore. An even more epochal development would be the digging of a canal across the Thai-Malaysian peninsula, at the Isthmus of Kra, which at its thinnest point is just 44km (28 miles) wide. This would be of great strategic benefit to China. It would no longer depend on shipping through the Strait of Malacca for vital imports—a “chokepoint” that leaves it vulnerable to potential enemies, such as America.
Such a canal has been mooted for more than 300 years, but remains unbuilt because of the prohibitive difficulty and expense. The idea has resurfaced this year, with reports in the Chinese media in May that an agreement had been signed to construct it at a cost of $28 billion. Both countries were quick to deny this. But the news in July that Vietnam intends to build a seaport at an island 17km off its southern tip prompted renewed speculation that the investment was a bet on the canal’s being built—and hence caused some consternation in Malaysia and Singapore, whose ports benefit from its absence.
That such an old pipe-dream is taken seriously stems from a perception that Thailand is now in China’s pocket. The same interpretation was given to Thailand’s controversial decision in July to deport back to China 109 Uighurs—members of a largely Muslim, Turkic minority in China’s western region of Xinjiang. They had fled alleged Chinese repression, only to be detained in Thailand. Thai police this week blamed the mysterious bombing at a famous shrine in Bangkok last month, in which 20 people were killed, on Uighurs. One of the two people detained in connection with the attack, and three of the nine suspects still at large, are reported to be Chinese citizens. Playing down any link with jihadist terrorism, the police suggested the attack was retaliation for their having broken up a people-smuggling network.
This close relationship with China, however, is neither new, nor a response to the West’s snootiness about military juntas. Thailand has, since the 1970s, when China stopped supporting communist rebels there, been perhaps China’s closest partner in South-East Asia. Unlike some other countries, it has no territorial dispute with China. Nor has it a history of internal conflict involving the millions of Thais of Chinese descent. The period of mutual hostility after the Chinese revolution, when Thailand became a staunch American ally, was the exception not the rule.
Thailand, however, as Mr Zawacki also says, is not about to become a Chinese client state. Public opinion would not support that. The deportation of the Uighurs drew criticism at home as well as abroad; the navy’s plans to buy Chinese submarines appear to have run into serious opposition. Conversely, parts of the Thai establishment are very keen to protect relations with America. They lobbied hard, if in vain, to have its TiP ranking raised. Just this week a government minister reiterated Thailand’s interest in joining the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a potential free-trade agreement, led by America and excluding China. America and China are competing for influence, but it is not yet a cold war: joining one sphere need not entail eviction from the other. And, in Thailand as elsewhere, China’s growing heft actually makes American friendship more desirable than ever.
With its combination of modernity and poverty, Mexico provides lessons for all emerging markets
Jeremy Corbyn is leading Britain’s left into a political timewarp. Some old ideological battles...
Malcolm Turnbull ousts Tony Abbott at a critical juncture for the economy. Why so many political...
Only an EU-wide agreement on asylum can save passport-free travel in Europe
A missed opportunity in Britain; a chance to be seized in California
Despite decades of reform, most Mexicans are still a long way from wealth and modernity
A papal visit provides fresh opportunity for conservatives and liberals to scrap
The pope plans to canonise the missionary founder of California
The Department of Defence can neither close bases nor keep them working
Special keys let officials open any suitcase. What could go wrong?
The party faithful are keen to decapitate politicians with experience of politics
The shrinking of a once-vibrant economy is shocking ordinary folk as well as number-crunchers
Why a local shambles convinces many that a voting system needs changing
After years of abstaining, aboriginal people could now be swing voters
Yet another prime minister is removed, and the assassin, Malcolm Turnbull, promises happiness
A wave of cheap Chinese metal exports hits the region
A new government takes a cautious step to expose the truth of a bloody conflict
Korean kids with pushy parents use crammers to get into crammers
Xi Jinping’s state visit to Washington will do little to resolve growing tensions
A cut in the number of troops may presage wider military reform
Small farmers in Africa need to produce more. Happily that is easier than it sounds
Twenty-five years after his downfall, a dictator goes on trial
The armed forces won’t have to answer for killing foreign tourists
Eastern Europe may not like refugees but needs them more than other countries
One man epitomises hostile views on migrants widely held by his people
A row over geothermal energy plants disturbs a holiday spot
After a disastrous year Greece’s prime minister may yet win re-election. But the fire has gone
Jeremy Corbyn’s triumph in his party’s leadership election will be short-lived
With the devolved government in limbo, pressure to find a solution is rising
Institutional investors are showing renewed interest in the rental market
The revival of Labour’s moderates will come from local government
Targets intended to shape development for the next 15 years are bloated. All the same, they show how...
A startup called Soylent wants to change the way people consume calories
AB Inbev may combine with SABMiller, in a flat market for big beer brands
China’s plan to reform its troubled state firms fails to impress
A flock of startups is making cloud computing faster and more flexible, but most of them will not...
The golden age of the Western corporation may be coming to an end
A slowdown in global trade growth is bad news for many emerging markets
France debates the experience needed to run the Bank of France
Regulators are taking a firmer stand on how banks gauge risk
Turning freelancers for firms like Uber into employees would not necessarily improve their lot
By using electric and hybrid forms of propulsion, very different-looking aircraft may end up taking...
Computers can recognise a complication of diabetes that can lead to blindness
Patches on the skin can analyse sweat and monitor glucose
A burgeoning arts district is helping California’s biggest city reinvent itself
The complicated story of how Hitler’s dealer hid his art
Two heavyweights show how markets can turn against the unsuspecting
A South African Rhodes Scholar looks wistfully back on past British privilege
Max Beauvoir, biochemist and high priest of Haitian voodoo, died on September 12th, aged 79
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more