2015-08~09
http://www.bendbulletin.com/nation/3514648-151/nation-world-briefing

Nation & World briefing;
Fatal school bus crash — A school bus plunged off a highway overpass in Houston after being hit by a car driven by a teacher Tuesday, killing two students and seriously injuring three other people, police and school officials said. A 17-year-old female student died at the scene, while a 14-year-old girl died at a hospital, according to the Houston Independent School District. The driver and the other passengers on the bus — a male student and a female student — are hospitalized. Their injuries are not believed to be life-threatening, according to a police statement. The names of the students haven’t been released.
Targeting Trump — A deep-pocketed conservative organization with a long list of Republican scalps said on Tuesday that it would launch a major ad campaign aimed at Donald Trump in an effort to weaken him. The Club for Growth is focusing its considerable firepower first on Iowa, where Trump has leapt to a significant lead over more conventionally credentialed Republican candidates. Allies of the club said the new campaign was consistent with its past activism: Trump, a former Democrat who has supported higher taxes and national health care, is a recent — and in the club’s mind, insincere — convert to conservative ideas.
HP job cuts — Hewlett-Packard Co. is preparing to shed up to another 30,000 jobs as the Silicon Valley pioneer launches into a new era in the same cost-cutting mode that has marred much of its recent history. The purge, announced Tuesday, will occur within the newly formed Hewlett Packard Enterprise, a bundle of technology divisions focused on software, consulting and data analysis that is splitting off from the company’s personal computer and printing operations. The spinoff is scheduled to be completed by the end of next month, dooming 25,000 to 30,000 jobs within HP Enterprise.
Oil exports — Rep. Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., the House majority leader, said Tuesday that the House was preparing to vote later this month to repeal a 40-year-old ban on the export of crude oil. The plan was immediately celebrated by the oil industry but is already drawing fire from environmental groups. The oil industry has started a major lobbying campaign to generate support in Washington for the repeal of the ban, first imposed during the 1970s oil crisis. But several refiners oppose lifting the ban because they fear the action will raise the price of domestic oil.
Bad intelligence — A group of intelligence analysts has provided investigators with documents it says show that senior military officers manipulated the conclusions of reports on the war against the Islamic State, according to several government officials. The Pentagon’s inspector general, who is examining the claims, is focusing on senior intelligence officials at U.S. Central Command, or CENTCOM. Officials said analysts allege their superiors within CENTCOM’s intelligence operation changed conclusions about a number of topics, including the readiness of Iraqi security forces and the success of the bombing campaign in Iraq and Syria. The revisions presented a more positive picture, officials said.
Botched airstrike — Mexico’s foreign minister traveled to Egypt on Tuesday to demand answers about a mistaken military airstrike over the weekend that hit a picnic full of Mexican tourists, killing a dozen people, while her Egyptian counterpart defended the professionalism and sacrifice of the Egyptian armed forces. The back and forth raised new doubts about the likelihood of a solution to the mystery of how an Apache military helicopter crew could have mistaken a midday picnic in the desert for a camp of heavily armed militants. Earlier Tuesday, President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi called President Enrique Pena Nieto of Mexico to express his condolences.
Thailand attack — Thailand’s national police chief on Tuesday blamed Uighur militants, members of an aggrieved minority in western China, for a deadly bombing in Bangkok last month. After nearly a month of investigations into the bombing, which killed 20 people, Thai authorities have arrested two suspects and issued arrest warrants for a dozen more. But the comments Tuesday were the first time investigators were explicit about who they believe perpetrated the attack. Local news outlets have speculated for weeks that the attack was a response to the Thai government’s repatriation in July of more than 100 ethnic Uighurs to China.
Jerusalem clashes — Palestinian youths and Israeli police clashed again Tuesday at Al Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem, and King Abdullah II of Jordan issued a rare warning to Israel that the fighting could weaken relations between the two countries. Concerns are growing that the clashes over Jewish visits to the contested holy site, which began on the eve of the Jewish New Year, could set off wider violence. In a call Tuesday morning to King Abdullah, Vice President Joe Biden and the king “expressed concern” about the violence, and Biden urged “all parties to exercise restraint,” the White House said in a statement.






 
 
 PARIS — The man who was killed during a counterterrorism raid was 
 
 








... more








 
 
 FORT WORTH, Texas — When Amy found out around Christmas that she 
 
 








... more








 
 
 Trump talks of ‘riots’ — Donald Trump said Wednesday that riots could 
 
 








... more








 
 
 WASHINGTON — Earth got so hot last month that federal scientists struggled 
 
 








... more








 
 
 New analysis of DNA from a collection of bones found in Spain 
 
 








... more


Explore more of Central Oregon with a subscription to The Bulletin.