2015-08~09
http://asia.nikkei.com/Politics-Economy/Policy-Politics/Investigation-meanders-motivation-still-vague-after-a-month

Bangkok blast: Investigation meanders, motivation still vague after a month- Nikkei Asian Review
BANGKOK -- A full month after the deadly bombing at Bangkok's Erawan Shrine, the case remains a focus of rampant speculation. For the Thai authorities, some of that chatter is unnerving.
     On Sept. 8, a man wearing a yellow T-shirt was marched in front of reporters at an old apartment building in Bangkok's eastern Nong Chok district. Police made him stand at the entrance to apartment No. 412 and encouraged him to point at the door. This prompted a flurry of shutter clicks as news photographers captured the gesture.
     The man was Yusufu Mieraili, one of the suspects believed to be involved in the Aug. 17 attack in the heart of the Thai capital. The bombing killed 20 and injured more than 120.
     Since his arrest near the Cambodian border Sept. 1, Mieraili has been the subject of intense media coverage. The authorities say that when he was apprehended, he was holding a Chinese passport that said he is from the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region. Police have not yet verified the document's authenticity, though Mieraili has reportedly confirmed the details in the passport are accurate. 
Bombing suspect Yusufu Mieraili is transferred from military to police custody at the metropolitan police headquarters in Bangkok on Sept. 7. (Photo by Yumi Kotani)
Bombing suspect Yusufu Mieraili is transferred from military to police custody at the metropolitan police headquarters in Bangkok on Sept. 7. (Photo by Yumi Kotani)
     Mieraili resembles a yellow-shirted man seen in a surveillance video at the shrine -- the man believed to have planted the bomb. DNA tests, however, failed to confirm that Mieraili was the bomber. Police now believe he handed a backpack containing the device to the man in the yellow shirt, who then placed it.
     Mieraili is but one of an array of suspects. On Sept. 12, police said they had obtained a warrant for the alleged mastermind of the attack. They identified him as 27-year-old Abudusataer Abudureheman, also known as Ishan. He became the 12th individual wanted in connection with the case.  
     Since that announcement, some doubts seem to have emerged. Police began looking for Abudureheman after Mieraili told them a man he called Ishan was the mastermind. That alone, officials now stress, is not enough to be sure Abudureheman planned the attack. They also now say that his age and ethnicity have not been confirmed; initially, when police distributed his photograph, they described Abudureheman as a "Uighur of Chinese nationality."
     They later asked the media not to use the word "Uighur." 
Beyond the matter of who is culpable, there is the question of motivation. Thai officials, themselves, are divided over this.   
     In its top story on Wednesday, the local English daily The Nation quoted National Police Chief Somyot Poompanmuang linking the attack to Thailand's deportation of 109 trafficked Uighur Muslims back to China in July. They "got angry," Somyot was quoted as saying. "They are from the same gang that attacked the Thai Consulate in Turkey" following reports of the repatriations.
     Some of the suspects in the investigation may be Turkish nationals. Many Turks sympathize with the plight of Uighur Muslims in China, who share cultural traits and speak a Turkic language. There have been reports that Ishan fled to Turkey. Somyot, though, was the first to officially link the bombing with human traffickers sending ethnic Uighurs to Turkey, who may have been upset over a crackdown on their activities.
     Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha quickly repudiated Somyot's claim. At this stage, the former general said, "there is no link. It could be a normal crime and by ordinary human traffickers."
      Tanju Bilgic, a spokesman for the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, told reporters in Ankara on Tuesday that Turkey had not been contacted regarding the possibility that Ishan escaped to his country.
     "We have not received any name or information from Thailand authorities," Bilgic said. He added that Turkey's ambassador that morning had submitted Ankara's diplomatic note to Thailand's Foreign Ministry, asking whether the reports and comments were true. Bilgic said Turkey is also investigating and urged the Thai authorities to share information with their Turkish counterparts.
Thailand's military junta, which took power in a May 2014 coup, wants to strengthen ties with China and no doubt prefers to stay out of the economic giant's domestic affairs -- particularly tensions with the Uighur minority. But if the deportation of ethnic Uighurs turns out to have been a motive for the bombing, it is sure to kindle a nationwide debate on the wisdom of the government's decision. 
     Meanwhile, the National Police, led by Somyot, have been criticized for effectively letting the bombing happen. At least one of the arrested suspects reportedly bribed officials at the immigration bureau, which is under police jurisdiction. Somyot, who is to step down at the end of the month, hails from the bureau and recently called for measures to fight corruption at the borders.
     While Somyot "deserves praise for pushing immigration police to shape up, he must also answer why he waited until his last month in office to press for change," the Bangkok Post wrote in its Sept. 10 editorial.
     Who pulled the strings behind the deadly blast, and why? And if the investigation produces undesirable results, will the authorities have the courage to face the truth?
Nikkei staff writer Sinan Tavsan in Istanbul contributed to this story.
You have limited access. To enjoy full access, subscribe now.
Your subscription renewal has not been processed.Please update your payment information and enjoy full access.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week

Your subscription renewal could not be processed. Please update your payment information to continue enjoying the Nikkei Asian Review.

Subscribe today to continue enjoying NAR.
• Unlimited access to asia.nikkei.com
• Unlimited access to NAR mobile and tablet apps
• Add delivery of NAR in print each week


 Nikkei Asian Review is the only publication that brings you Insight about Asia, from the inside out.
 XXcontractNameXX has enabled you free full access to Nikkei Asian Review.
