2015-08~09
http://www.memrijttm.org/pakistani-jihadi-weekly-criticizes-muslim-leaders-for-not-opposing-chinas-restrictions-on-islamic-practices-our-rulers-lust-for-power-interests-and-wealth-have-made-us-tools-of-the-jews-and-christians.html

Pakistani Jihadi Weekly Criticizes Muslim Leaders For Not Opposing China's Restrictions On Islamic Practices: 'Our Rulers' Lust For Power, Interests, And Wealth Have Made Us Tools Of The Jews And Christians'

The following report is a complimentary offering from MEMRI's Jihad and Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM). For JTTM subscription information, click here.

A recent article titled "Afraid of Islam – Non-Muslims and the World of Islam," in Pakistan's Urdu-language jihadi weekly Haftroza Al-Qalam, accused China of persecuting Muslims in Xinjiang province. The article, by Sohail Ahmed Azmi, was written in the context of Ramadan, the Muslim holy month of fasting, which this year fell in June and July; during it, Chinese officials imposed restrictions on Muslims in Xinjiang province.

Haftroza Al-Qalam is the mouthpiece of the militant organization Jaish-e-Mohammad (the Army of Muhammad), which is led by Maulana Masood Azhar, one of the three militants released by India in exchange for the passengers of an Indian plane hijacked in 1999 as it was en route from Kathmandu to Kandahar via India.

"The Chinese Government Has Imposed Restrictions On Fasting, Offering Namaz-e-Taraweeh [Nightly Prayers During Ramadan], Offering Namaz, And Reciting The Koran"

"There is no precedent in history for the internal disorder that the world of Islam is facing now. Our rulers' lust for power, interests, and acquisition of wealth have made us tools of the Jews and Christians. They use us as they want. Today, the oppression that the Muslims are facing, in Iraq, Syria, Libya, Afghanistan, Burma, Kashmir, Palestine, Egypt and other countries, is the result of our own mistakes and policies. Today in the world, where Muslims are being massacred in the highest number, the number of Muslim refugees is also the highest. Some of them have become refugees and asylum seekers in their own countries because of their wrong policies. Sometimes, because they are a minority, they must face religious and other restrictions.

"Last week's big and important news was of restrictions on the Muslims of the Chinese province of Xinjian on observing the fast, offering prayers, and reciting the Koran. Every Muslim with a kind heart is dejected by reading this [news]. China – our friendly neighbor, which has helped Pakistan in every difficult situation, and which is investing $46 billion in the energy sector and providing a better communications network – has never been an Islam-friendly country.

"According to one estimate, 400 million Muslims live in China, and according to another, [that number] is 280 million. The majority of the Chinese Muslims are Muslim in name only. It is only in the Muslim majority province of Xinjiang where people are slightly better Muslims...

"The Chinese government, in a [security] operation in this province, martyred thousands of Muslims a few years back. Now in this province, the Chinese government has imposed restrictions on fasting, on offering namaz-e-taraweeh [nightly prayers during Ramadan], on offering namaz, and on reciting the Koran. Along with restrictions on attending mosques, houses are being raided. Police are entering the houses of Uyghur Muslims and inquiring about their fasting, prayers, taraweeh, and [Koran] recitation."

"Past Attempts To Suppress Muslims Have Led To Armed Clashes In Which Muslims Were Brutally Massacred" By Chinese Authorities

"According to the international publication Muslim News, as per the instructions issued by the Chinese government, officials, employees, female and male students, and Muslims belonging to the nonbeliever ruling Chinese [Communist] party are prohibited from fasting. The Chinese government is afraid of Islam prospering and spreading in the country, and is making efforts to keep Muslims away from the religion.

"The Chinese government believes that the more Muslims are kept away from religion, the less prosperous Islam will be. The Chinese education officials have issued special instructions to all schools and colleges that education and religion should be kept separate and that no fasting student should sit in the classroom. [Additionally,] the provision of food and cold water in schools is mandatory. All parents are asked to guarantee that their children will not fast, or face arrest. Chinese officials go from house to house to find out if anyone is fasting.

"Regarding such oppression and excesses, Dilxat Raxit, the spokesman for the Uyghur Muslim representative organization in exile the World Uyghur Congress, has said that because of the Chinese government's tyrannical tactics, the situation will further worsen and disputes will increase. Pastattempts to suppress Muslims have led to armed clashes in which Muslims were brutally massacred and were sentenced on terrorism charges. Similarly, in Burma [Myanmar], along with the genocide of Muslims, incidents of martyring [demolishing] mosques have increased.

"According to a news agency, apart from endangering the lives of Muslims and martyring mosques, restrictions have been imposed on the practice of other religious rites. Whereas in Britain, which likes to be called liberal, according to the Telegraph newspaper, one... primary school in London has prohibited Muslim students from fasting during Ramadan. In a letter to the parents, [the school] warned that fasting can hamper the students' learning. A Muslim organization in Britain, while criticizing this decision by the school, said that the school administration has no need to interfere in religious affairs, since there are already laws in Islam about when to fast and when not to fast, and that those laws are sufficient."

"The Muslim Ummah And Its Rulers Are Collectively Suffering From Insensitivity And Opportunism; Their Lust For Power And Wealth Has Kept Them From Raising Their Voice For Their Religion"

"In the neighboring country of India, Muslim have been stopped from offering prayers in the historic mosque of Fort Kehna, whereas foreign tourists and Hindus continue desecrating this historic mosque, which was built in the sixteenth century by Humayun and Sher Shah Suri [the rulers of the time]. In Texas in America, unknown individuals threw stones at a Turkish American cultural center and mosque when prayers were being offered.

"Eliminating incidents like these mentioned above, and raising voices against them, is the joint duty of the world of Islam and its rulers. But the Muslim Ummah and its rulers are collectively suffering from insensitivity and opportunism. Their lust for power and wealth has kept them from raising their voice for their religion. If the Muslim Ummah conducts an economic boycott of such countries, especially if Arabs stop selling them oil, then some improvement can be made. But we moan about human rights organizations and the United Nations, where they are and why they do not act against those who are usurping the freedom of practicing religion.

"When we Muslims do not raise our voice of truth, how can we complain about other organizations and institutions that exist according to their own interests? The role of the OIC [Organization of Islamic Cooperation] is very dubious and negligent. In such circumstance, this duty is entrusted on Muslims. [We] will have to properly perform our duty of Amr bil Ma-roof Nahi Anil Munkar [the Islamic concept of ordering good and preventing sin]. Thousands of children from China are studying in Pakistani madrassas. You will see that the day is not very far away when China will be a Muslim-majority country.

"Anyway, according to common law, there is reaction to every action. The more you suppress the truth, the more it will spring back."