2015-08~09
http://www.theguardian.com/politics/2015/sep/25/chinese-state-newspaper-global-times-george-osborne-xinjiang

Chinese state newspaper praises George Osborne for Xinjiang trip | Politics | The Guardian
Global Times writes glowing editorial but Amnesty International criticises chancellor for ‘sending signal that UK is willing to compromise its human rights values’


Friday 25 September 2015 10.21 EDT


Last modified on Friday 25 September 2015 10.29 EDT


A Chinese state-run newspaper has praised George Osborne, the UK chancellor, for not “raising the human rights issue” during his visit to the country.
The Global Times wrote an editorial on Friday in which it noted that he is the first western official in recent years to have visited the violence-wracked region of Xinjiang and stressed its business potential instead of “finding fault over the human rights issue”.
Osborne’s visit to the area, the homeland of the Uighur minority, was highly unusual for a senior western politician. It sought to promote closer business and economic ties between Britain and China, but was condemned by campaign groups for putting business opportunities before human rights.
But the Global Times, which is close to China’s ruling Communist party, praised the pragmatism of Osborne’s policy towards the country.
Related: George Osborne’s flirtation with China is steering us into uncharted waters | Rafael Behr
“It should be diplomatic etiquette for foreign leaders not to confront China by raising the human rights issue,” the editorial stated. “As a foreign finance minister who comes to China to seek business opportunities, he should keep a modest manner. Some westerners believe their officials should behave like a master of human rights to show their superiority over China and the east.”
The paper concluded: “Osborne has behaved as a top official from a civilised country should, making us believe that his country respects etiquette.”
His trip to the Xinjiang capital, Urumqi, came exactly a year after a court in the city imprisoned Uighur intellectual and government critic Ilham Tohti for life on charges of “inciting separatism”.
Amnesty International’s UK director, Kate Allen, criticised the chancellor’s failure to mention Tohti’s case for “sending the signal that the UK is willing to compromise its human rights values”.
Osborne has told the BBC he had raised the issue of human rights in the context of “economic development, how we help kids from poor areas of China”.
The Global Times frequently takes a nationalistic tone, but its editorial was in marked contrast to previous barbs it has thrown in London’s direction.
Last year, the paper crowed that China had overtaken Britain’s “old declining empire” as a world power after the Chinese premier, Li Keqiang, oversaw the signing of trade deals with Britain on high-speed trains and nuclear power.
Related: Britain is an old, declining empire, says official Chinese newspaper
“Britain’s national strength cannot be placed in the same rank as China now, a truth difficult to accept for some Britons who want to stress their nobility,” it said.
During a visit by David Cameron in 2013, the paper snapped that Britain should recognise it was not a big power but “just an old European country apt for travel and study”.
In contrast on Friday it said that Britain “aims to consolidate its big power status by leading Europe’s relations with China”.
Sign in
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.


We’re doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
