2015-08~09
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/society/article/1846358/chinese-uygurs-deported-thailand-attacked-police-airport-fearing

Chinese Uygurs deported from Thailand ‘attacked police’ at airport ‘fearing execution’ | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
State newspaper says fight erupted because members of the ethnic minority thought they would be executed on their return to China
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Ethnic Uygurs from China "attacked Chinese and Thai police officers" at an airport in Thailand in an attempt to flee before they were repatriated last month, according to a state media report.
Some of the 109 illegal immigrants sent back said the fight broke out because they had been deceived into believing they would be executed on their return, state-run Xinjiang Daily reported on Tuesday.
But a Uygur exile group dismissed the report as propaganda designed to distract attention from human rights abuses in Xinjiang.
Beijing has previously said Uygurs, a largely Muslim ethnic minority in the northwest autonomous region, have illegally fled China in recent years.
Rights groups say the migrants are mostly fleeing ethnic violence in Xinjiang and controls on their religion and culture. Beijing has denied the accusations, saying some went to Syria via Southeast Asia and joined terrorist groups.
Xinjiang Daily quoted deportees as saying that some of the Uygurs detained in Thailand attacked law enforcement officials while boarding a plane at an unnamed airport in the Southeast Asian country. They were quickly subdued by police and had been staying at a shelter in Xinjiang "with good medical care".
The report did not say how many Uygurs fought the police.
Two of those repatriated had been allowed to return home after confessing how they managed to flee abroad, the report quoted local police as saying.
"Those who were deceived [by the human smugglers] and fled abroad will be handed over to the authorities of their home county for education," Xinjiang deputy police chief Chen Zhuang was quoted as saying. "The smugglers will be penalised in accordance with the law."
The details in the report could not be independently verified and the Thai embassy in Beijing could not be reached for comment.
Dilxat Rexit, a spokesman for the exile group the World Uygur Congress, said the forced repatriations from Thailand triggered confrontations between the Uygurs and the local police both on their way to and at the airport.
"No one wants to return to China because they know they are putting themselves in great danger by doing so," he said.
"Most of them were women and children, who have no interest in jihad."
He said the Uygurs who were repatriated would be confined at a government-controlled residence and prevented from talking to overseas media.
"Beijing is using them [the deportees] as a propaganda tool to divert the attention of the rest of the world from their [the Uygurs'] human rights and religious freedom," he said.
State media have repeatedly reported this year that Turkish diplomats and businesspeople in Southeast Asia have helped the illegal migrants obtain Turkish passports.
The deportations last month also triggered protests in Turkey, a predominantly Muslim country that shares historical and cultural roots with Xinjiang.
China has been hit by a series of violent attacks over the past two years that it blames on Islamist separatists from the northwest region.