2015-08~09
http://bangkok.coconuts.co/2015/08/18/bangkok-blast-seven-tourists-among-20-confirmed-killed

Bangkok blast: Seven tourists among 20 confirmed killed | Coconuts Bangkok
The estimated number of deaths from last night’s horrific bombing at Erawan Shrine in Bangkok now stands at 20 including at least seven tourists and five Thais, according to a police statement.

The death toll was earlier last night was estimated to be as high as 27 by local media.
Police confirmed this morning that among the 20 confirmed deaths are seven tourists including one Singaporean, two Chinese, two Malaysians, and two Hong Kong nationals. The other eight have not been identified and are comprised two men, five women, and one young girl. How truly awful.
Meanwhile, the number of injured people has risen to 125, including 42 Thais, 28 Chinese, two Malaysians, two Hong Kong nationals, two Singaporeans, and one each from Japan, Indonesia, Philippines, Oman, and Maldives. The other 44 have not been recorded yet, according to Police Radio JS100
Checkpoints have been set up throughout the nation especially at popular tourist destinations.
Police Chief Somyot Poompanmoung said that he is confident that the attackers will be caught, but refused to elaborate much on the investigation process.
“We’re confident we will catch the assailant behind the blast,” Somyot said this morning. “Now we’re watching out all areas.”
Somyot said he believes the explosion is not connected to the Thailand's deportation of the Uighur population.
Around 7pm last night, a bomb exploded at Erawan Shrine at the Rajaprasong Junction. The shrine is worshipped by Thais and acts as a popular tourist destination at the center of Bangkok.
The explosion occurred less than a kilometer from the Coconuts Media office on Lang Suan Road and two Coconuts staffers heard the bang.
“At exactly 6:55pm, I was outside the office and heard the bang. I had to look up the sky because I thought it was lightning. Then I just whatsapped everyone to go home,” said one Coconuts staff member.  
“About seven of us were about to leave the office, and suddenly we heard the loud bang. We initially thought it was lightning or a building collapse. We had to check our windows [to see if they had shattered]. Then everyone got to the BTS and people just looked panicked,” said another.
Thailand Defense Minister: TNT bomb meant to target foreigners, damage economy