2015-08~09
http://rightwingnews.com/military/after-horrific-terrorist-attack-chinese-use-13-muslims-to-send-a-brutal-message/

After Horrific Terrorist Attack, Chinese Use 13 Muslims to Send a Brutal Message | John Hawkins' Right Wing News
It pains me to say this, but Obama could indeed learn a great deal from the communist Chinese when it comes to dealing with radical Islamic terrorists. They take them out brutally and therefore terrorism in China is a very rare event. Force is an incredible deterrent and sends a strong message. In this country, there would be a fine line though between quelling the terrorists and just nullifying the Constitution. The Chinese have no such restrictions. They just execute them. The 13 criminals had planned violent terrorist attacks and ruthlessly killed police officers, government officials and civilians, which took innocent lives, caused huge property losses and seriously endangered public security. So, in June of 2014, China put them to death. But in 2015, Obama turns loose these vicious psychopaths to run free in America, killing police and citizens alike with abandon, because we have to be ‘inclusive.’
In June 2014, the Chinese government executed 13 Muslims for having committed terror attacks in the region of Xinjiang.
“The 13 criminals had planned violent terrorist attacks and ruthlessly killed police officers, government officials and civilians, which took innocent lives, caused huge property losses and seriously endangered public security,” China’s official press agency, Xinhua, announced at the time.
One of these attacks reportedly killed 24 police officers. Another, on a train in Xinjiang’s capital, left three dead, while an attack on a market in Urumqi cost 39 people their lives.
Another three Muslims were sentenced to death at the time for staging an attack in which a car slammed into a crowd at Tiananmen Square and burst into flames. This attack left five more dead and 40 injured (H/T Conservative Post).
According to CNN, Yu Huitang, a spokesperson with the Xinjiang Regional Higher People’s Court, had announced a month earlier that “the sentences are a warning to those who have religious extremist thoughts and intend to incite violence.”
President Barack Hussein Obama could surely learn a whole lot from the Chinese. Just consider the way he dealt with Nidal Malik Hasan, a Muslim terrorist who in 2009 killed 13 people during an attack on Fort Hood in Texas.
Obama adamantly refused to classify Hasan’s actions as a terrorist attack, robbing victims of additional benefits that they would have otherwise received. Hasan eventually received a death sentence for having committed his act of “workplace violence.”
Unlike Obama, the Chinese apparently have no problems labeling terror as what it is and doing whatever is necessary to “stop terrorism and severely punish terrorists,” as its leaders have in the past pledged to do.
Obama would do well to follow suit, but apparently, he prefers making excuses for terrorists and — even worse — releasing them from our custody, much like he has done with the terrorists at Gitmo.
Xinjiang is the traditional home of Muslim Uighurs who speak a Turkic language and China has blamed previous attacks on Islamist separatists it says seek to establish an independent state there called East Turkestan. Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government’s own repressive policies in Xinjiang have provoked unrest, something Beijing denies. Beijing is absolutely correct – this unrest is more of an Islamic uprising than suppression by the communists. As well as the death sentences for the attack in 2014, another man was sentenced to life and four others received jail terms ranging from five to 20 years. China doesn’t mess around with terrorists. It’s a pity that our president not only ignores what they do, he silently encourages them. Anything for the Ummah and the Caliphate I guess. His Muslim Brotherhood buds must approve, right along with Valerie Jarrett.
How did we end up in a world where Big Gulps are being banned in New York while the welcome mat for potheads is being rolled out in Colorado? How...



Terresa Monroe-Hamilton owns and blogs at NoisyRoom.net. She is a Constitutional Conservative and NoisyRoom focuses on political and national issues of interest to the American public. Terresa is the editor at Trevor Loudon's site, New Zeal - trevorloudon.com. She also does research at KeyWiki.org. You can email Terresa here. NoisyRoom can be found on Facebook and on Twitter. 


Personally, I had thought he would not resign as long as the left leaning media ignored the story about his
Amusing note of the day: Well known Democratic advisor Joe Trippi called President Jimmy Carter’s a “failed presidency” on CNN
Obama made a huge mistake thinking that everyone in America hates their own country just like Reverend Wright, the killer
© 2001-2016 Copyright John Hawkins. All Rights reserved.Proudly built by WPDevelopers