2015-08~09
http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/08/19/thailand-blast-idUSL3N10U1CT20150819

Thai police hunt for accomplices of suspected Bangkok bomber | Reuters
BANGKOK Aug 19 Thai authorities said on
Wednesday they were looking for accomplices of the chief suspect
for the Bangkok shrine bomb blast that killed 22 people, a man
who was captured on closed-circuit television (CCTV) dumping a
backpack and walking away.
"We suspect he is the bomber," national police spokesman
Prawut Thawornsiri said, referring to the man in a yellow
T-shirt in a grainy video that has gone viral on social media.
"We are also looking for other suspects in connection with
the blast. These types of attacks are not usually planned by one
person alone," he added.
The government said Monday evening's attack at the popular
Erawan shrine in the heart of Bangkok was aimed at wrecking the
economy, which depends heavily on tourism.
No one has claimed responsibility for the blast, which
killed 22 - nearly half of them foreigners - and wounded more
than 120.
Jangling nerves in the city on Tuesday, a small explosive
was thrown from a bridge towards a river pier, sending a plume
of water into the air, but no one was hurt.
A spokesman for the government, Werachon Sukhontapatipak,
said there were "patterns" between the two bombs in that both
used TNT but no link had been established as yet.
The footage of the young man with shaggy dark hair shows him
entering the shrine compound with a backpack on, sitting down
against a railing and then slipping out of the bag's straps.
He then stands up and walks out apparently holding a mobile
phone, leaving the bag by the fence as tourists mill about.
National police chief Somyot Pumpanmuang said the suspect
could be Thai or foreign, though domestic media reports on
Wednesday said he was not Thai.
Police have not ruled out any group, including elements
opposed to the military government, for the attack though they
say it did not match the tactics of Muslim insurgents in the
south or 'red shirt' supporters of the previous administration.
"The attack did not bear the hallmarks of either southern
Muslim separatists or red-shirt militants," said Angel Rabasa,
an expert on Islamist militancy at the RAND Corporation.
"Both groups have carried out terrorist attacks in the past,
but not on this scale in terms of loss of life."
Police said they were considering the possibility that
ethnic Uighurs were behind the bombing.
Hundreds, possibly thousands, of members of the
Turkic-speaking and largely Muslim minority have fled unrest in
China's western Xinjiang region, where hundreds of people have
been killed, prompting a crackdown by Chinese authorities. Many
Uighurs have travelled through Southeast Asia to Turkey.
The blast comes at a sensitive time for Thailand, which has
been riven for a decade by a sometimes-violent struggle for
power between political factions in Bangkok.
A parliament hand-picked by a junta that seized power in a
2014 coup is due to vote on a draft constitution next month.
Critics say the draft is undemocratic and intended to help the
army secure power and curb the influence of elected politicians.
 

 (Additional reporting and writing by John Chalmers; Editing by
Dean Yates)
Using citation analysis to identify authors whose papers wield outsized influence
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.