2015-08~09
http://funs.co/2015/09/11/america-feels-the-bern-bernie-sanders-now-front-runner/

America Feels The Bern: Bernie Sanders Now Front-Runner | Funs.co
Some say we shouldn’t take Bernie Sander seriously. The problem with that is: Bernie Sanders is the frontrunner as it stands today. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) said on Thursday that he was “stunned” to see recent polls that showed him gaining ground on former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in key primary states.
A Quinnipiac poll released on Thursday showed that Sanders and Clinton in a virtual tie in Iowa after Sanders had trailed her by 19 percentage points in early July. A recent poll also showed Sanders leading Clinton by 7 percentage points in New Hampshire.
“You want me to tell you the truth?…Yes, I’m stunned,” Sanders told CNN’s Wolf Blitzer on Thursday. Look, we have a message that I believed from day one was going to resonate with the American people. … Did I think (the issues) would resonate as quickly as they have? The answer is no.””*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.