2015-08~09
http://www.andhrawishesh.com/539-telugu-ap-weirdnews/51726-10-years-13-times-pregnancy-to-escape-jail.html

Women gets 13 times pregnant to escape jail| viral news
A 39 year old woman in Xinjiang Autonomous Region, China, was successful, in escaping the life imprisonment since 10 years, complaining the pregnancy.
The woman named Zeng, was actually awarded life imprisonment in 2005 and at that time, she complained of pregnancy and so the court declared her, a probation period.
This was taken as a loophole by her and made the similar complaints for 14 times since then and took the probation period, after which she went to abortion too. In the 14 said pregnancies, 13 are true and one is false. This continued for years together and the court was going on awarding the probation period to Zeng, since decade.
Finally, the Municipal Bureau of Justice resubmitted the suggestion to Urumqi Intermediate People's Court, to put Zeng in jail. Now, Zeng is put in jail for her previously awarded life sentence.
The pregnant women in UK can be imprisoned. The women can be returned to special mother and baby prison units in the jail, to bring up the baby, until it reaches 18 months of age, when they are transferred to hospital for the birthing process. Around UK, there are seven such specially adapted mother and baby units at prisons.
(And get daily dose of political, entertainment news straight to your inbox)
Shah Rukh Khan is no doubt the ‘King Khan’ of Bollywood, has not attained that tag that simple.
The journey…
Australia back to track again, after winning against Bangladesh, in ICC WT20 match, held last night.
In the Super 10…
Throwing garbage in the open areas of Hyderabad, is not as easy as before, as it is to be noted…
News: Case on Kerala police for allowing his son to drive official vehicleWhat does the frustrated father generally do now?Probably,…
Finally, the long await moment has been witnessed by the mega fans last night, after watching the two mega brothers,…

Home | About us | Terms of use | Privacy Policy | Liability Disclaimer | Sitemap | Rss