2015-08~09
http://www.4-traders.com/news/Pakistan-China-ink-20-MoUs-worth--2bn-in-diversified-fields--20859242/

Pakistan, China ink 20 MoUs worth $ 2bn in diversified fields
Pakistan and China on Wednesday struck as many as 20 Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) worth $ 2 billion, as the two-day historic moot of the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) Karamay-Xinjiang Forum ended here with a declaration focussing on increased cooperation in diversified fields.
The MoUs were signed in sectors of energy, communication, social services, agriculture, health, education, road infrastructures etc at the auspicious Karamay Government Municipal Auditorium. A consortium of 35 Chinese companies was also formed that will invest in Pakistan pushing forward CPEC.
Federal Minister for Planning, Development and Reforms Ahsan Iqbal, Senator Mushahid Hussain Sayed, Senator Hasil Bizenjo, Senator Afrasiab Khattak, Senator Nuzhat Saddiq, Senator Nawabzada Saifullah Magsi, Minister for Planning and Development Baluchistan Hamid Khan Achakzai, Pakistan Ambassador to China Masood Khalid and high ranking officials of the delegations witnessed the signing ceremony.
Present on the occasion were Director General Frontier Works Organization) FWO Major General Mohammad Afzal, Khalid Asghar Engineer-in-Chief FWO, Major General Javed Mehmood Bukhari, Quartermaster General, Major General Muhstaq Ahmed Faisal Director General National Logistic Cell (NLC) and other high ranking officials of the Pakistan government.
Just before the passage of the Karamay declaration, from Pakistan side Senator Mushahid Hussain Sayed, Chairman Senate Committee on Defence and Defence Production and from China side Madam Baige Zaho member NPC Standing Committee, Vice Chairman NPC Foreign Affairs Committee gave a detailed presentation on the achievements made from the two days Pak-China forum.
The participants of the forums laid great emphasis on giving sustainability to the forum in the days to come and decided to make it an annual feature. The next meeting of the forum would be held in October this year in Beijing.
In his brief address on the occasion, Ahsan Iqbal proposed to make cooperation in space technology between Pakistan and China as part of the historic declaration, saying it will take the Pak-China relations to new heights.
Pakistan and China, he proposed should launch joint space mission programme comprising astronauts of both countries as this is the strength of the CPEC to increases more connectivity between the two friendly countries. It will shape up the future destiny of both the nations.
He lauded the organizers of the Pak-China forum for holding such a successful event and said that it would ensure stability to the world peace.
I assure you on behalf of Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif and government of Pakistan
that we are committed to implement the CPEC in letter and spirit. I give open invitation to Chinese firms to directly contact us in case of any problem they are facing in Pakistan, we will remove all the obstacles in the way of CPEC.
The CPEC, he said would create dozens of Karamay like cities in Pakistan, adding the people of Pakistan would benefit from this joint venture. Sun is rising from the east and the history will not forget what accomplished today from the two days moot of this historic forum, will bring everlasting changes in the region.
Senator Mushahid Hussain Sayed in his address termed the event as great development in the region wherein Pakistan and China are taking the lead role. He also made a mention of the positive development taking place in the region which he said would cast good impact on the CPEC and referred to peace process in Kabul with support of Pakistan and China and Iran nuclear deal to substantiate his point of view.
He said the government of Pakistan has allocated Rs 3 billion for building the western corridor of the CPEC passing through the less developed areas of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan.
Mushahid said this region, which was in the eyes of storms since Russian invasion was heading towards betterment nowadays, adding time has come to settle the things and Pak-China could play key role to this effect.