2015-08~09
http://currentaffairs.gktoday.in/current-affairs/china-pakistan

China-Pakistan Current Affairs - Current Affairs Today
Pakistan’s Parliament building located in national capital Islamabad became the first in the world to completely run on solar power.
It achieved this feat after Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif switched on solar-powered building of the parliament in a simple ceremony.
Note: Currently, there some parliaments in world like Israel’s Knesset that partly run on solar power.
Tags: China-Pakistan • Pakistan • Parliament • Renewable Energy • Solar energy
Pakistan and China kicked off their ambitious 46 billion US Dollar China- Pakistan economic corridor (CPEC) project.
It was kicked off after China successfully acquired over 2,000 acres of land in restive Balochistan to develop the strategic Gwadar port.
Earlier both countries had signed a deal in this regard to give the usage right of the land to a Chinese company.
Under this ambitious project, China is expected to invest around 1.62 billion US dollars in the Gwadar project. It includes construction of an expressway linking the harbour and coastline with a rail link, breakwater. It also includes other 9 projects which is expected to be completed in three to five years.
Tags: China-Pakistan • CPEC • Gwadar port • International Relations
China and its strategic partner Pakistan have launched a joint air exercise called Shaheen (Eagle)-4 in China.
It is fourth edition of air exercise between the air forces of both countries which was launched as part of a series of military exchange programmes between two countries.
In this edition of exercise, Chinese contingent was represented by fighter jets, fighter bombers and early warning planes. Pakistani counterpart included fighter jets and early warning planes.
Chinese air force by this joint air exercise is willing to expand the scope of cooperation with various countries in the region.
The first edition of such joint air drill between both countries took place in Pakistan in March 2011. Late in September 2013 the second drill took place in China’s western Xinjiang Uygur region and third drill again took in Pakistan’s Punjab province in May 2014.
© Copyright 2009-2015 GKToday | All Rights Reserved | About Us | Terms & Condition, Disclaimer | Contact Us || 'यतो धर्मस्ततो जयः' ||