2015-08~09
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/thailand/11810708/Bangkok-bombings-who-was-behind-the-slaughter-at-Erawan.html

Bangkok bombings – who was behind the slaughter at Erawan? - Telegraph
Thailand is no stranger to violence and bombs. It has undergone a decade of domestic political turmoil and coups and has faced a long-running Islamic insurgency in the south of the predominantly Buddhist state.
But Monday’s massacre in Bangkok, with the slaughter of locals and tourists at one of the city’s most revered shrines, is an unprecedented atrocity.
And it bears none of the hallmarks of any of the different political and religious factions that have clashed in recent years in a country that markets itself to foreign visitors as the Land of Smiles.
Thai Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha gestures as he speaks to journalists  Photo: EPA
The failed bomb attack at the river on Tuesday – ominously using the same style of pipe-bomb planted at the shrine less than a day earlier – might signal a concerted campaign to target commercial lifeblood areas that are popular with residents and visitors alike.
The choice of the Erawan shrine as a target could also offer a clue, as the shrine sits at the heart of the territory controlled by the antimilitary “red shirt” movement during the street protests that paralysed the capital.
With no claims of responsibility, the motivations for the attack so far remain a mystery, however.
One scenario is that the blasts are connected with the power struggles that have dogged the country since a 2006 coup overthrew Thaksin Shinawatra, a populist prime minister now in exile abroad.
• Bangkok bomb: Q&A for travellers – is the city safe?
A loved-one's hand wipes away the tears of a relative of a Thai victim killed in the 17 August Ratchaprasong district bomb blast  Photo: EPA
His sister Yingluck Shinawatra was ousted as prime minister by another coup last year as protests by rival factions crippled the country.
Mr Shinawatra’s fiercely loyal “red shirt” followers in the country’s rural heartlands have become increasingly disillusioned with the junta’s delaying tactics in its “road-map” to return the country to democracy.
Could extremist elements within their ranks have staged the attack in their former heartland to deliver a message to their foes in Bangkok and to harm the lucrative tourist industry? Feasibly, but it would display a counterproductive and murderous fanaticism that they have never previously deployed and also be an outrageous assault on fellow Buddhists.
Or might elements within the military have staged the a “red flag” attack to demonstrate the country’s need for them to remain in power to maintain stability, especially with a challenging royal succession in the offing? It is also feasible, but the attack has also severely undermined the military’s security credentials as the National Council for Peace and Order and would also compromise the Buddhist tenets of any soldiers involved.
Others have looked to the long-standing Islamic insurgency in the southern provinces. The rebels there have staged a series of brutal attacks on army outposts and Buddhist monks in recent years, but the separatists have never ventured outside the south for their operations, never targeted foreign tourists and never displayed a sophisticated national network.
Relatives of a Thai man killed in a bomb blast outside a religious shrine grieve after identifying the body at the Institute of Forensic Medicine in Bangkok  Photo: AFP
Bangkok is also a major gateway city for visitors from Muslim countries and has been used as a transit point for South East Asian Islamic radicals in the past. It has not previously been the target of a major Islamic terror attack, but security experts have long feared that it could be a “soft target” for an outrage such as the 2002 Bali bombings that claimed 202 lives in the tourist centre of Kuta.
Yet hardened international operatives from a group such as Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant would be expected to hone in on a site more popular with Westerners than the Erawan shrine, which is mainly frequented by Thais and ethnically-Chinese East Asians.
Another outside scenario that has been raised is the possible Uighur factor. Thailand recently deported a swathe of the Chinese Muslims back to China amid widespread fury from Uighur groups and claims that the men will face persecution.
If Uighur Islamic radicals wanted to murder Buddhist Thais and Chinese at a shrine that is sacred to Buddhist and Hindus, then Erawan could be a target. But this seems to be nothing more than circumstantial speculation, with no evidence of a Uighur angle.

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
