2015-08~09
http://www.dw.com/en/malaysia-arrests-three-suspects-over-bangkok-shrine-bombing/a-18712350

Malaysia arrests three suspects over Bangkok shrine bombing | News | DW.COM | 14.09.2015

Police in Malaysia have arrested three people suspected in connection with last month's deadly bombing at a shrine in Bangkok. Thai authorities have already detained two foreign men over the attack.


Malaysian police said a Pakistani man and two Malaysians were taken into custody "a few days ago" based on information provided by Thai authorities.

"We believe the suspects can help in the investigation...our arrest was made to assist the Thai police in the Thai bombing investigation," Khalid Abu Bakar, the national police chief, told reporters.

He added that one of the local suspects was a woman, and that there were no plans as yet to hand the three over to Thai police.

On August 17, a bomb 
went off at the Erawan Shrine in the heart of Bangkok, killing 20 people and injuring scores more. Most of the victims were Chinese tourists.

Thai authorities have so far 
arrested two men, whose nationalities remain unconfirmed, over the blast. They are still 
seeking a number of other suspects.

No group has claimed responsibility for the bombing. One theory is that the attack may have been 
carried out by militants from China's Uighur minority, or their supporters, as revenge for Thailand's forced deportation of 109 Uighur refugees in July.

The Uighurs, many of whom have their home in the northwestern Xinjiang region of China, have long accused Beijing of discrimination as well as religious and cultural repression, with scores fleeing to Turkey via Southeast Asia in recent years.
Thai police have issued an arrest warrant for an ethnic 'Uighur' man over last month's deadly shrine blast in Bangkok. It is the first time authorities have identified a suspect as a member of the Chinese minority group. (12.09.2015)
  

The arrest of a Turkic-speaking man in connection with the Bangkok bombing has fueled speculation the blast may have been a revenge attack for Thailand's deportation of ethnic Uighurs to China in July. DW examines. (02.09.2015)
  

Thai police say they have arrested a foreign suspect in connection with a deadly bombing at a shrine in Bangkok earlier this month. They say bomb-making materials were found in the man's apartment. (29.08.2015)
  

Experts in Bangkok have been sifting through debris after at least 21 people were killed and scores wounded in a blast said to have targeted foreigners. Officials say the attack has not yet been linked to any group. (18.08.2015)
  

Thai police have issued an arrest warrant for an ethnic 'Uighur' man over last month's deadly shrine blast in Bangkok. It is the first time authorities have identified a suspect as a member of the Chinese minority group.
Thai police have said a key suspect in last month's bombing in downtown Bangkok has fled to Turkey. According to police, the attack could be the work of China's ethnic Uighur minority who have sympathizers in Turkey.
A military court in Thailand has charged two men accused of carrying out a bomb attack at a Bangkok shrine that killed 20 and injured 120 more. Officials describe them as Uighurs from China's Xinjiang region.
DW offers its readers the opportunity to engage in a discussion on dw.de and other platforms. In order not to offend any users, it's important to maintain a respectful dialogue. Please adhere to these guidelines.  


© 2016 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version
