2015-08~09
http://en.cihan.com.tr/en/use-of-latin-alphabet-by-uighurs-in-china-1858104.htm

Use of Latin alphabet by Uighurs in China - Cihan

Oral and written announcements are made in three different languages in domestic flights to Urumqi in China: Chinese, English and Uighur.The announcement in the Uighur language starts with “Hörmetli hanımlar ve efendiler” (Distinguished ladies and gentlemen). Nobody knew English back in the 1950s and the 1960s in China because it was still viewed as the language of the Americans. Memories of the world wars were still fresh. Russian was spoken widely because of aid by the Soviet Union. But now people are used to both the English and Uighur languages on domestic flights.The route between Beijing and Urumqi takes four-and-a-half hours. On domestic flights, Islamically permissible food is served to passengers who request it. The food is served in a covered plate stating that it is halal. The statement is written in all three languages. Likewise, restaurants in Urumqi and Kashgar use three languages: English, Chinese and Uighur. Signs at the entrance of restaurants read “Muslim food.” The statement in Uighur is written in Arabic. Chinese yuan notes feature five languages: Mandarin, Uighur, Tibetan, Mongolian and Zhuang.The state of education in the Uighur Autonomous Region is different from the state of education in other provinces in China. Han Chinese can apply to universities offering education in Chinese alone. The application procedures for other ethnic groups are different. If minorities have been attending a school offering education in Chinese since young and are sitting for the Chinese exam in high school, they will sit for the Chinese exam for minorities, where they receive an additional 50 points. There is a separate quota for minorities in universities in China. There are bilingual schools in the Uighur Autonomous Region, where literature is offered in Uighur and the natural sciences in Chinese.The quality of education in China is poor in the areas where minorities live. Minorities have to learn Chinese; for this reason, affirmative action policies are implemented in their favor. The policies are implemented differently for different ethnicities. The points minorities used to receive were higher in the past. As the level of education increases, the extra point declines.Fundamentalism has been on the rise because of the Iranian Revolution; the civil wars in Iraq and Syria have set an example for radicalism in the Uighur Autonomous Region. What measures should be taken to deal with radicalism in order to ensure stability in the Uighur region? Should violence be used against violence? Does this create a vicious cycle of violence? Uighur intellectuals have offered various solutions to this problem. One such solution is for Uighurs to adopt the Latin alphabet. The Uighur language has been written in Arabic since the 10th century. Some Uighur intellectuals support this; many already use the Latin alphabet on their phones, computers and on social media. Young people in particularly prefer the Latin alphabet on social media. Some Uighur intellectuals, on the other hand, argue that they need to preserve their ancient culture.Central Asian countries tended to adopt the Latin alphabet after the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Kazakhstan is now seeking to adopt the Latin alphabet. Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan are already using it. The Uighur Autonomous Region is using the Uighur Latin alphabet drafted by the Chinese government between 1969 and 1983. But then additional signs referring to Uighur sounds were converted into Arabic. Now they are discussing the Latin alphabet again. Chinese characters have different meanings and vocal tones. The Uighur language in the Uighur Autonomous Region belongs to the Kazakh and Kyrgyz Turkic group. The Uighur Autonomous Region can follow the successful implementation of the Latin alphabet in Turkey.Finally, the number of books in Turkish exhibited in the Kaşgarlı Mahmud Museum is quite small. A campaign to be launched on this matter may establish new ties of friendship.try.HASAN KANBOLAT (Cihan/Today's Zaman)