2015-08~09
http://www.chiangraitimes.com/china-says-deported-uighurs-tried-attacking-police-when-leaving-thailand.html

China Say’s Deported Uighurs tried attacking Police when Leaving Thailand | Chiang Rai Times English Language Newspaper
People being deported from Thailand are seen brought off an airplane by police at an unidentified location in China
XINJIANG – Chinese Government officials in Xinjiang have now reported that some of the 109 Uighurs returned to China from Thailand last month attacked Thai and Chinese police while being taken aboard a flight back to Xinjiang, as they believed they would be executed on their return.
The return of the group from Thailand in July sparked anger in Turkey, and fed fears among rights groups and the United States about potential mistreatment.
In a report on official website Tianshan Net, the Xinjiang government said the rumors that spread among the group waiting to be deported included one that they would be put to death.
People being deported from Thailand seated in an airplane while flanked by police
“Certain people used this to stir up some of those being deported to attack Thai and Chinese police as they were boarding,” the government said.
One man, named in the report in Chinese as Kudusi Tuohutiyusufu, suffered head injuries when being “subdued” at the airport, but his mental state had “relaxed” on his return.
“The attitude of the police toward us is very good. They took me to see the doctor and now my wound is much better,” the report quoted him as saying.
“We checked with security regarding the 109, and we can say that no physical force or use of force happened,” spokesman Sek Wannamethee told Reuters.
Foreign media have been denied access to the Uighurs since their return, and it has not been possible to independently verify their condition, or the government or state media accounts.
Most of the group are being detained in the Xinjiang capital of Urumqi, the government said.
“Life is quite good after returning,” said one Uighur woman, named as Guliniyazi Shawuti. “It’s completely different from what I heard would happen when I was abroad.”
Beijing blames Islamist militants for violent attacks in Xinjiang in the past three years that have killed hundreds. It says traffickers trick Uighurs to leave China and fight in Syria and Iraq.
In July, state media said at least 13 of those returned had been suspected of “terror” offenses, and broadcast images of people shrouded in hoods being taken off an aircraft.
World Uyghur Congress spokesman Dilxat Raxit said China had “monopolized” information about the returned Uighurs.
“China uses bombastic propaganda to distract from the outside world’s worries about the plight of those sent back,” he said in an email.
By Michael Martina; Additional reporting by Amy Lefevre in Kuala Lumpur

Chiang Rai Times English Language Newspaper. All Rights Reserved. 
 Log in 










 - 
 Designed by Media Max
 Powered by Chiangraiprovince.org
