2015-08~09
http://forexreportdaily.com/2015/09/20/3259-thailand-links-shrine-bombing-to-uighur-traffickers/

Thailand Links Shrine Bombing to Uighur Traffickers - Fx Report Daily
From there, he flew to Istanbul on 30 August., one day after investigators arrested Karadag in Bangkok, police officials said today.
This may strengthen the theory that those behind the blast are Uighurs from the Chinese region of Xinjiang who have close ties to Turkey.
A senior Turkish government official, however, denied that the man had escaped to the country. “There is not any document of the suspect having entered Turkey”.
“We are not sure the Thais raised a red flag about this suspect”.
Anthony Davis, a Bangkok-based security analyst with IHS-Jane’s, speaking at the Foreign Correspondent’s Club of Thailand, said there were not many groups with the motive and capability to carry out such an attack. They have reasons to be angry with the Thai government, which recently handed back to Beijing more than 100 Uighur migrants who had sought asylum in Thailand.
He faces charges of conspiracy to possess unauthorized explosives. However, police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri said new evidence suggests he reached Istanbul instead via Abu Dhabi.
But in Bangkok, national police chief Pol General Somyot Poompanmuang yesterday dismissed reports that his deputy Pol General Chakthip Chaijinda had gone to Malaysia to pick up suspects.
Police said the first suspect arrested in connection with the blast was found with dozens of forged Turkish passports.
It is not clear though whether either Bangladesh or India or both had received any intimation about this man from Thai police after the explosion.
The arrests in Malaysia were made after a tip-off by Thai authorities, Mr Khalid said.
The ongoing investigation into last month’s fatal bombing at Bangkok’s Erawan Shrine revealed that several suspects are Chinese or held Chinese documentation.
In après conference, Khalid Abu Bakar, Malaysia’s Inspector-General of Police said that few days ago, the police authorities have detained three main suspects which includes a Pakistani man and two Malaysians.
The investigation has gained momentum since one in every of two detainees police discuss with as Yusufu Mieraili, implicated a person referred to as Izan, and admitted delivering a backpack to the yellow-shirted fugitive assumed to be the bomber. Thai media reported that the two tenants and a guest were taken away for questioning.
“He has said he is not involved in the bomb plot”, he added.
Copyright © 2016 · Minimum Pro Theme On Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in