2015-08~09
http://www.australiannews.net/index.php/sid/237075661

Australian News - Obama, Xi Talk Rights as Protesters Demand End to Oppression in China

In a joint press conference delivered after the meeting, Obama said the two leaders had held a "frank discussion" on human rights, reaffirming U.S. support for freedom of assembly and expression, freedom of the press and freedom of religion.

"I expressed in candid terms our strong view that preventing journalists, lawyers, NGOs and civil society groups from operating freely, or closing churches and denying ethnic minorities equal treatment are all problematic ... and actually prevent China and its people from realizing its full potential," he said.

Xi said China is making "all-around efforts to deepen comprehensive reform, to build law-based governance, [and] to enforce strict party discipline" in the interest of "building a society of initial prosperity in all respects."

He said that while democracy and human rights "are the common pursuit of mankind ... we must recognize that countries have different historical processes and realities, and we need to respect people of all countries in the right to choose their own development path independently."

According to Xi, part of China's reemergence as a global player requires achieving "social equity and justice, and advancing human rights," and he expressed Beijing's willingness to further conduct rights dialogue with the U.S. so that the two nations might "progress together."

While disagreeing over China's territorial ambitions in the South China Sea, Obama and Xi also agreed to measure to combat global warming and halt commercial cyber-theft and announced agreements with on a military hotline and rules of behavior to govern air-to-air encounters between the two powers military aircraft.

During the press conference, chants could be heard from about a block away from the South Lawn, where more than 200 pro-China supporters and anti-China protesters in two groups were separated from one another by metal barriers and police.

The supporters, consisting largely of Chinese students based in the U.S. and members of Chinese-American associations, waved Chinese and American flags and called out pro-China slogans, welcoming Xi to the U.S. capital.

The more animated protesters were made up of a variety of anti-Beijing organizations, including ethnic Uyghurs from northwestern China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, Tibetans and Chinese democracy campaigners.

One group of activists called China Rights Now carried a banner that said in large letters: "Xi Jinping Let Freedom Ring" with smaller letters underneath which read: "for Chinese, Tibetans, Uyghurs and Mongols."


A group of Uyghurs shouted slogans calling for freedom and human rights and greater autonomy in the Xinjiang region, where members of their minority complain of pervasive ethnic discrimination, religious repression, and cultural suppression by China's communist government.

Rebiya Kadeer, president of the Munich-based World Uyghur Congress, questioned why Xi was being invited to the White House when he is responsible for the "jailing of thousands and the killing of many others."

"The Chinese government arrested thousands of people during the 2009 protests in [the Xinjiang capital] Urumqi and sentenced [outspoken Uyghur academic] Ilham Tohiti to life in prison," she said.

"China has been carrying out its oppressive policies over the past 60 years, but when Xi rose to power, the number of forced disappearances and sentences without due process intensified. Today we call on China to release all political prisoners, including Uyghur, Tibetan and Chinese alike."

T. Kumar, international advocacy director at London-based rights group Amnesty International, called on Obama to "give equal weight to human rights, along with business and tech issues" during his meeting with Xi, saying to steer clear of the issue would be "an extreme failure" for the U.S.

"We're concerned about thousands of political prisoners in Xinjiang," he said, as well as discrimination against Uyghurs in the region.

China has vowed to crack down on the "three evils" of terrorism, separatism, and religious extremism in Xinjiang, but experts outside China say Beijing has exaggerated the threat from Uyghur "separatists" and that domestic policies are responsible for an upsurge in violence that has left hundreds dead since 2012.

Uyghur groups in exile say such attacks are likely expressions of resistance to Beijing's policies in Xinjiang, where rights groups accuse authorities of heavy-handed rule, including violent police raids on Uyghur households, restrictions on Islamic practices, and curbs on the culture and language of the Uyghur people.

A young Uyghur protester told RFA's Uyghur Service that he wanted China to provide equal rights for the people of his ethnic group.

The Chinese government took away our fundamental rights and put so many Uyghurs in jail to suffer," he said.

"I'm here to be the voice for those innocent people, and for those who suffered or even died for our freedom and human rights."

Also on Friday, Geng He, the U.S.-based wife of prominent rights lawyer Gao Zhisheng, questioned Washington's commitment to human rights amid Xi's visit to the White House, and suggested that her meetings with U.S. officials had only made his situation worse while he was in prison.

Two days earlier, U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Antony Blinken met with relatives of several Chinese dissidents and civil society activists, though Geng refused to attend, citing a letter from her husband who said little would come of the talks while officials wine and dine Xi in Washington.

"In the years I have been here, I have been to DC no less than 10 times, and each time I have met with officials at different levels of government," she told RFA Friday.

"I see them once a year, and each year they are higher ranking. I always thought that would mean my husband back home will have to put up with a bit less torture ... [but] it seemed that it just got worse and worse every time, even to the point where he pretty much came back from the dead."

Gao, 52, is currently under 24-hour surveillance by state security police at the home of his wife's parents in Xinjiang, where he was released from a three-year jail term for "incitement to subvert state power" in August.

According to Gao's friends, such as Beijing-based rights activist Hu Jia, the rights lawyer had barely been able to speak an entire sentence when he was first released from Xinjiang's Shaya Prison, where he had been held for lengthy periods in solitary confinement and tortured.

Gao suffered psychological torture and various forms of corporal punishment, severely affecting his memory, and leaving his teeth in such bad shape that he was unable to chew, they said.

Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Melbourne - Formula One's existing safety measures saved Fernando Alonso's life in ...
Sydney - Environmental groups on Monday urged greater action on climate change after the Australian government declared the highest alert level over an epidemic of coral bleaching in the pristine ...
Indian Wells - World No 1 Novak Djokovic won the Indian Wells title on Sunday with a 6-2, 6-0 rout of a hobbled Milos Raonic, taking the crown for the third straight year and a record fifth time ...
Cape Town - South Africa may have to significantly restructure their team if JP Duminy is declared unfit for their key ICC World Twenty20 match against in-form West Indies at Nagpur on Friday (16:00 ...
Sydney - Australian authorities said on Sunday coral bleaching occurring in the World Heritage-listed Great Barrier Reef had become "severe", the highest alert level, as sea temperatures ...
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Melbourne - Formula One will revert to the old system of qualifying for next ...
Paris - England, led by bullocking No 8 Billy Vunipola, confirmed their remarkable transformation from World Cup flops to Six Nations Grand Slam winners when they beat France 31-21 on Saturday.
The ...
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA--(Marketwired - Mar 21, 2016) - Adoption of people-based advertising in Australia is rising quickly as advertisers experience superior performance and return on ad spend from ...
Indian Wells (US), March 21 (IANS) Tennis World No.1 Novak Djokovic believes that male tennis players should earn more money than their female counterparts, considering the fact that more people ...
Canberra, March 21 (IANS) Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull on Monday announded the country will hold an early election in July if the Senate fails to pass laws aimed at curbing union ...
Canberra, March 20 (IANS) Queensland's political system is set for its biggest shake-up in the decades as a referendum for fixed four-year parliamentary terms looks likely to succeed. On Sunday, ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 20 (IANS) Malaysian officials said on Sunday that two pieces of suspected debris of the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 have arrived in Australia for verification. Both ...
Los Angeles, March 20 (IANS) Rapper Iggy Azalea has revealed she considered driving off a cliff to end her life last year after the backlash she received over her career pushed her into a dark zone ...
Bengaluru, March 21 (IANS) Australia beat Bangladesh in the third match of the World Twenty20's Super 10 stage on Monday at the Chinnaswami Stadium, chasing down a 157 run target with three wickets ...
Bengaluru, March 21 (IANS) Bangladesh piled up a score of 156/5 in 20 overs against Australia in the group stage Super 10 match at the World Twenty20 here on Monday. Mahmudullah top scored with a ...
Melbourne, March 21 (IANS) Two-time Formula One world champion Fernando Alonso has admitted he is lucky to be alive after a high-speed crash that forced race officials to momentarily stop the ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Following his maiden win in the Indian Open last weekend, S.S.P. Chawrasia made a jump of 92 places to be 151st in the latest global golf rankings released on Monday. The ...
Melbourne, March 21 (IANS) Reigning Formula 1 champion Lewis Hamilton of team Mercedes said he is expecting a closer fight with team Ferrari in the forthcoming season and has downplayed the ...
Bengaluru, March 20 (IANS) Bangladesh coach Chandika Hathurusingha thinks Mushfiqur Rahim's mindset is getting in his way of returning to form. It has not been long since Mushfiqur was Bangladesh's ...
Bengaluru, March 20 (IANS) The International Cricket Council's (ICC) ban on bowlers Taskin Ahmed and Arafat Sunny for illegal actions in the middle of the World T20 campaign has diminished the ...
Australian News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Free-spirited Australia - a continent offering endless holiday experiences. Explore the colours of the outback, the excitement of the cities and a range of natural wonders you won't find anywhere else. The pearly sails of the Sydney Opera House, jutting out to jewel-blue water and over-reached by the intricate Sydney Harbour Bridge has made Sydney Harbour one of the world's most recognisable images.
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by temporarily easing trade sanctions slapped earlier this month against the Chinese telecom equipment and smartphone maker ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at the state-owned coal and steel companies into low paying jobs. Miners that ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
PRETORIA, South Africa South Africa's ruling party, the African National Congress, on Sunday said it had full confidence in President Jacob Zuma in the wake of mounting allegations of political ...
ISTANBUL A Turkish militant with links to the Islamic State was the suicide bomber who blew himself up killing four foreigners in Istanbul over the weekend, Turkey's Interior Minister Ekfan Ala has ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
LONDON/NEW YORK - US business research provider IHS Inc. is to buy market-data firm Markit to create a $13 billion London-based data and business research provider. The deal joins a wave of ...
© 1999 - 2016 Australian News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)