2015-08~09
http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2015/09/01/8-of-the-oddest-new-hillary-clinton-e-mails/

8 of the oddest new Hillary Clinton e-mails - The Washington Post
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
Success! Check your inbox for details. You might also like:
On Monday night, the State Department released to the world its biggest batch yet of e-mails Hillary Rodham Clinton sent on her private sever while she was secretary of state.
The department is under court order to regularly release some of the 30,000 e-mails (50,000+ pages) from Clinton's private server, which could give us regular dumps until early next year (when the voting starts). On Monday, we got 7,000 pages, mostly focused on her work in 2009 and 2010.
First, the serious stuff: The FBI is looking into whether any information marked as classified at the time crossed Clinton's private server. Clinton has maintained it didn't, though independent government investigators have found at least two e-mails they said had top-secret information.
[Everything you need to know about how the State Department classifies information]
In this latest batch, some 150 e-mails are censored in some way because the State Department deemed information classified, The Post's Anne Gearan reports.
Apparently, not even the State Department's Help Desk knew Clinton's e-mail address, which she used exclusively for work. 
Among those who didn't know about @HillaryClinton private email address? The Help Desk at the State Department: pic.twitter.com/0GrOiT9N2K
There are also some somber e-mails discussing nuclear negotiations with Iran, lifting sanctions on the military dictatorship in Burma and what to do after bombs devastated a major Sufi shrine in Pakistan.
But the world's a dark place, so we thought we'd focus on seven of the oddest/funniest/most interesting e-mails of the bunch. Here they are:
1. Clinton apparently liked the carpets they had in China
2. Her staff, which often e-mailed her around 10 or 10:30 p.m. to see if she was awake before they'd talk, researched for Clinton the effects of sleep on weight loss. Clinton found the articles interesting enough to tell someone to "Pls print."
3. As The Post's Karen Tumulty points out, sucking up to your bosses is as old as Washington. But Clinton's aides did it particularly well and often.
Reading through the latest batch of @hillaryclinton emails is a reminder of how much time people in DC spend sucking up. "You were radiant."
Per my earlier tweet about DC suckups. There's a lot of this in HRC's emails: pic.twitter.com/VsxixZJP83
Cheryl Mills fwded praise of her own work to Clinton, who replied "You're a rock star!" Mills:"At the foot of the master I learned." #Emails
4. Also, apparently former treasury secretary Timothy Geithner snowboards? If it weren't for Clinton's e-mails, we might never have known.
5. These next series of e-mails, explained below, will henceforth be known as #GefilteFishGate.
If this is not your favorite Hillary email from this particular dump, I'm not sure we can be friends. #GefilteFish pic.twitter.com/juKSO1maOH
Hillary was trying to get Israel to allow in a blocked US shipment of Asian carp. From @DrMichaelOren's memoir: pic.twitter.com/mPvcE0zAch
7. July's e-mail dump revealed Clinton had been talking with a foreign lobbyist about how much financial assistance to give to the Micronesian island of Palau, reported Politico's Gabriel Debenedetti.
In these latest e-mails, we find that after Clinton had settled the issue, she joked about how the Asian ethnic minority group Uighurs, who had likely been settled there after being held at Guantanamo Bay, would teach her how to dive -- and avoid the Chinese submarines patrolling off the coast of the Philippines.
After finalizing Palau agreement (http://t.co/LmwtCYsQ6R), Clinton jokes: Uighurs from Gitmo = now diving instructors pic.twitter.com/mxlIJJXxs3
8. And finally, Clinton wonders why a Virginia bank robber chose to wear a mask of her face. The e-mail exchange, as summarized by Gearan:
In one jocular exchange between Clinton and her two closest legal advisers, Cheryl Mills forwards to Clinton a December 2010 Washington Post story about a robber who wore a Hillary Clinton mask when sticking up a bank in Sterling, Va.
Her attorney, David Kendall, deadpans: “She does, uh, have an alibi, I presume?”
Clinton replies that she wonders if she should be flattered “even a little bit?”
“And, as for my alibi, well, let’s just say it depends on the snow and the secret service. So, subject to cross for sure. Do you think there could be copycats? Do you think the guy chose that mask or just picked up the nearest one? Please keep me informed as the case unfolds,” she writes.
Hillary Clinton's e-mails are basically a bunch of 'Veep' episodes
5 mistakes Hillary Clinton made in her latest e-mail press conference
We will update you when news breaks about the virus.
Success! Check your inbox for details. You might also like:
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.