2015-08~09
http://www.themalaymailonline.com/malaysia/article/apologise-for-meddling-in-malaysias-affairs-perkasa-tells-chinese-ambassado

Apologise for meddling in Malaysia’s affairs, Perkasa tells Chinese ambassador | Malaysia | Malay Mail Online
‘Top Chef’ winner Paul Qui charged with assault in Texas
The Edit: Daisy Ridley confirms ‘Tomb Raider’ could be in her future
Rifts widen in PKR as party leaders collide over Dr M

On Friday, Dr Huang — who was on a walkabout at Petaling Street, also known as Chinatown — read out a statement which stated that Beijing would not hesitate to speak out against any threat that may affect the country’s ties with Malaysia. — Picture by Saw Siow FengKUALA LUMPUR, Sept 27 — Malay rights group Perkasa demanded today that the Chinese ambassador to Malaysia Dr Huang Huikang apologise for making remarks regarding the country’s domestic affairs.

 The group’s information chief Hassan Basri Muhammad said Huang’s remarks implied that Putrajaya has oppressed and acted unjustly towards the country’s ethnic Chinese, claiming that they have benefitted the most “without discrimination” in everything from education to politics, the economy and health, among other fields.

 “Perkasa suggests that Chinese ambassador Dr Huang Huikang understand his duty as an ambassador and not interfere with domestic affairs in a sovereign country, just as other countries do not interfere with China’s domestic affairs,” Hassan said in a statement.

 Hassan also reminded Dr Huang that China’s government had acted with “extreme discrimination” against the republic’s ethnic Uighur population by not allowing them to perform prayers during the recent Ramadhan fasting month.

 On Friday, Dr Huang — who was on a walkabout at Petaling Street, also known as Chinatown — read out a statement which stated that Beijing would not hesitate to speak out against any threat that may affect the country’s ties with Malaysia.

 China, he said, is against any form of extremism, racism or terrorism and will not sit idly or tolerate them.

 His statement did not go down well with Putrajaya, and Wisma Putra has summoned him for a meeting tomorrow to explain his remarks that suggested interference on the envoy’s part in the country’s domestic affairs.

 Hassan today said Dr Huang should focus on the proliferation of prostitution, massage parlours and illegal gambling allegedly serviced by Chinese citizens in the country instead of interfering with Malaysia’s affairs.

 He said Perkasa supports Wisma Putra and that it should issue a stern warning to the ambassador so that he will mind his behaviour and be reminded of his limits in a sovereign country.

 “In addition to that, we urge that the Chinese Ambassador apologise for his audacity to interfere with this country’s domestic affairs especially when it comes to that certain race, although we realise he has the same ‘Chinese blood’,” he said.
Reuters Video: Ben Affleck says people are going to like Batman v Superman
Reuters Video: Plane crashes in Russia, killing all on board
About Us | Contact Us | Policies | Search | Archive | E-Paper | Mobile | ProjekMMO | RecomN - Local Services