2015-08~09
http://www.todayonline.com/world/thai-blast-doubts-cast-international-terror-link

Thai blast: Doubts cast on international terror link | TODAYonline
BANGKOK — The authorities in Thailand said yesterday there was unlikely to be any link between international terrorism and the deadly Erawan shrine bomb blast.
“Security agencies have collaborated with intelligence agencies from allied countries and have come to the same preliminary conclusion that the incident is unlikely to be linked to international terrorism,” said military spokesman Colonel Winthai Suvaree.
When contacted by telephone for clarification, however, he said that a link to global terrorism had not been ruled out. “We still have to investigate in more detail,” he said.
Three days after the blast happened at the revered shrine, authorities appeared to have few solid leads into the perpetrators of the deadliest attack in Thailand’s recent history.
Police said that they suspect the plot involved at least 10 people, but described that figure as theoretical.
Col Winthai also said yesterday that Chinese tourists, who were among the victims, were not the “direct target”.
The Monday evening attack at the Erawan Shrine, a popular tourist site, left 20 people dead and more than 120 injured. Four Chinese citizens were among the dead.
No one has claimed responsibility for the blast, sparking a variety of theories into who might be behind it. One is that the blast was a revenge attack related to Thailand’s recent deportation to China of more than 100 Uighur Muslims, or that it could have been carried out by Islamist groups expanding their reach in South-east Asia.
A spokeswoman from the Chinese Embassy in Bangkok said that the Uighur deportation theory was “hugely irresponsible” as authorities were still in the midst of investigations.
Police officials told reporters yesterday that the authorities believed the perpetrators must have planned the blast in advance, maybe a month ahead of time, and likely included a site inspection team, bomb makers, bombers and an escape team. But the comments appeared to be speculative, not based on firm evidence.