2015-08~09
http://www.thephuketnews.com/lawyer-for-accused-erawan-bomber-says-karadag-confessed-54330.php

Lawyer for accused Erawan bomber says Karadag confessed
BANGKOK: The foreign suspect detained for the Erawan shrine bombing in Bangkok has confessed he carried out the August 17 attack, his lawyer said Wednesday (Sept 30).
Choochart Kanphai told reporters he met with his client, Adem Karadag – also known as Bilal Mohammed and Bilal Turk – for about an hour today (Sept 30) at the Royal Thai Army’s 11th Military Circle in Bangkok’s Dusit district.
During the meeting, Mr Karadag “voluntarily confessed” to being the yellow-shirted man who left a pipebomb at the Ratchaprasong intersection shrine, Mr Choochart said.
The reported confession confirms authorities’ version of the complex investigation into the blast that killed 20 people and injured more than 130. But it also contradicts Mr Karadag’s earlier claims he was not in the country at the time of the attack and earlier police assertions that DNA evidence suggested it was unlikely Mr Karadag was the bomber.
Wednesday’s meeting was Mr Choochart’s first with his client since reports of a supposed confession emerged late Thursday last week (Sept 24).
On Friday (Sept 25), the lawyer said he doubted his client would admit to the crime.
But on Wednesday, Mr Choochart confirmed authorities’ claims that Mr Karadag had no choice to confess after being presented with evidence linking him to the bombing.
On Saturday (Sept 26), police said they were now convinced that Mr Karadag, the first person to be arrested, was the man seen in CCTV footage wearing a yellow t-shirt and placing a backpack at the Erawan shrine moments before the explosion.
They said his confession, together with other security-camera footage and eyewitness accounts, confirmed they had the right man. Police say they believe the man in the yellow shirt wore a wig and glasses to disguise himself.
In a briefing on Monday (Sept 28), investigators released a series of four sketches showing how Mr Karadag could have transformed his appearance from the initial suspect sketch which showed a man with glasses and floppy hair. The suspect now appears more gaunt and with a shaven head.
According to his lawyer, Mr Karadag is a Chinese Uighur who settled in Turkey. He has asked for a Turkic-Uighur interpreter because he cannot discuss details of his case in English.
With the confession, Mr Choochart admitted his options in the defence case are limited, but wondered aloud whether Mr Karadag would change his testimony in court. In any case, Mr Choochart said, he would continue to serve as the suspect’s attorney.
Noting that convictions for explosives possession and fatal bombings carry the death penalty, the lawyer nonetheless said he hoped a confession would see the sentence lessened.
The 30-year-old foreigner is one of two men arrested in connection with the Bangkok blasts, which include a failed bombing of the Sathorn pier on August 18.
Mystery still shrouds the motive for the unprecedented attack, in which the majority of fatalities were ethnic Chinese tourists. Speculation has centred on a link to militants or supporters of the Uighurs, an ethnic group who say they face severe persecution in China, after Thailand forcibly repatriated 109 of the minority in July.
Authorities have countered it was retaliation by Uighur people smugglers for Thailand’s crackdown on human traffickers that disrupted their business, as well as a vaguely described connection to domestic politics.
In other new details of the still unclaimed attack, Mr Choochart said Mr Karadag relayed how he followed orders from another man, Abdulah Abdullahman, and was unpaid.
Mr Abdullahman is among 17 people – both foreigners and Thais – wanted in connection with the blast. Only Mr Karadag and another named as Yusuf Mieraili – accused of detonating the Erawan shrine device remotely – have been arrested.
Re: the "biased, negative attention applied to the accused by local media".... They basically eviscerated the man - you were expecting maybe...(Read More)
Joe12, here you go again, your reading skills seem limited, here is what you should have read "its captain, who radioed in for a full flight safe...(Read More)
Passed by the Sam Kong underpass works today.
Just 15 working days until 09 April,( exclusive Sundays) and still so much to do.
Not the slightest ch...(Read More)
This irresponsible little t*rd should have all sentences and parole revoiked, and be sent to prison for 5 years...no reductions...no nothing... just 5...(Read More)
Joe12, Most of us would not have replied to Kurt, but you seem to have found the need, most of us would know he was referring to "“However, I s...(Read More)
The strict enforcement is to cover the key traffic rules and regulations: driving on footpaths; driving without a license; driving against the traffic...(Read More)
For God's sake stop shilly shallying. Lock her up like she deserved 5 years ago, but tack a few more years on her sentence...(Read More)
Unbelievable lenient sentence? She has a clear disregard for human life & authority? It seems she has not shown any remorse! ...(Read More)
I use this opportunity to highlight what , as resident, I consider scandalous ,the privates beaches where you cannot go at all and the pay beaches lik...(Read More)
I love that, The guy says "I think it is time to fine 'all' people that break the laws" makes me wonder which ones they fine now ? ...(Read More)