2015-08~09
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2015-09-12/uighur-suspect-wanted-over-bangkok-blast-thai-police-says/1492256

Chinese suspect wanted over Bangkok blast, Thai police say | ABC Radio Australia
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs & topical conversations from Australia, Asia and the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Vietnamese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Chinese and English
News and features from Australia in Tok Pisin and English
News and current affairs from Australia in French and English for the Pacific
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Burmese and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Khmer and English
News, current affairs and English lessons from Australia in Indonesian and English
Thai police issue an arrest warrant for a Chinese man over last month's deadly Bangkok blast, backtracking after they earlier identified the suspect as a member of the country's Uighur minority.
Thai police have said an arrest warrant has been issued for a Chinese man over last month's deadly Bangkok blast, backtracking after they earlier identified the suspect as a member of the country's Uighur minority.
Confusing and sometimes contradictory official statements have characterised updates into the investigation of the attack which killed 20 people, the majority ethnic Chinese visitors, at a religious shrine in the capital's bustling downtown district on August 17.
Analysts had increasingly pointed towards a link with the mostly Muslim Uighur minority from north-western China's Xinjiang region, but Thai police had up until now refused to confirm any such links.
National police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri said the suspect was a Uighur according to his passport, as authorities released a photo of the moustached and short-haired suspect, with a caption that identified him as Abudusataer Abudureheman, or "Ishan", of "Uighur" ethnicity and "Chinese" nationality.
But, shortly afterwards, police sent reporters another photo of the suspect — this time removing mention of his ethnicity and requesting media "drop the word Uighur".
Later on Saturday, Mr Prawut said he wanted to "correct" his earlier comment, without explaining why or denying whether the man was of Uighur ethnicity, saying only the suspect was Chinese.
Uighurs have long-accused Beijing of religious and cultural repression with scores believed to have fled in recent years, often heading to Turkey via South-East Asia.
Thailand's deportation of 109 Uighur refugees to China in July sparked violent protests in Turkey, where nationalist hardliners see the minority as part of a global Turkic-speaking family.
The warrant issued Saturday is the 12th over the unprecedented attack on the Thai capital.
One of the detained suspects, Yusufu Mieraili, was arrested last month with a Chinese passport registering his birthplace as Xinjiang - the region home to some 10 million of the Uighur minority. But police did not confirm his ethnicity or nationality.
The other detained suspect, Adem Karadag, was arrested at a Bangkok flat in possession of bomb-making material and scores of fake Turkish passports.
On Thursday Bangladesh police said a Bangkok blast suspect had arrived in Bangladesh on August 16 before flying out to Beijing on August 30.
But local Thai media reports have said the suspect flew on to Turkey rather than China.
Do you need to give feedback or ask a question about this story?
This service includes material from AAP, Agence France-Presse, APTN, BBC, CNN, Getty, Pacnews, Reuters and other agencies which is copyright and cannot be reproduced, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without written consent.