2015-08~09
http://news.asiaone.com/news/asia/womens-veils-sign-backwardness-says-official-chinas-xinjiang-0

Women's veils a sign of backwardness, says official in China's Xinjiang, AsiaOne Asia News
Uighur women wearing face veils walk on a street in Urumqi on September 17, 2013.
The custom of women wearing face veils is not a tradition of minority people in China's western area of Xinjiang or in any Muslim country, but is a symbol of extremism and backwardness instead, a senior regional official said on Thursday.





 

Energy-rich Xinjiang, visited this week by British finance minister George Osborne on a rare trip by a Western official, is strategically located on the borders of Central Asia. China has great plans for the region in its new Silk Road strategy.
The government has stepped up curbs on religious clothing in the heavily Muslim area, where it blames Islamist separatists for violence that has killed hundreds of people over the past few years.
Many Xinjiang experts say the outlawing of veils and strict enforcement of the rules could further stigmatise the region's Uighurs, who speak a Turkic language and call the region home.
Last year, Karamay, a northwestern city in Xinjiang, banned people wearing head scarves, veils or long beards from boarding buses. Authorities in Xinjiang's capital of Urumqi have also banned the wearing of Islamic veils in public.
In unusually strong comments, Xaukat Emen, a member of the Xinjiang Communist Party standing committee, said face veils and other coverings for women were "typical extremist attire" and had nothing to do with Xinjiang, or Arab or Muslim countries.
"A people who totally cover both their eyes are certainly a backward people. We Uighurs do not want to see our female comrades wear this type of clothing," he told a news conference in Beijing.
"Many women want to work, and many want to have contact with society. So on this issue, we will resolutely not agree."
In some cases, men had worn the veil to kidnap children, he added.
Uighurs have traditionally followed a moderate form of Islam, but many have begun adopting practices more common in Saudi Arabia or Pakistan, such as full-face veils for women, as China has stepped up the security crackdown of recent years.
Exiles and many rights groups trace the real cause of the unrest to China's heavy-handed policies, including curbs on Islam and the culture and language of the Uighurs. China denies trying to repress the Uighurs.
An Uighur himself, Xaukat Emen said the government was committed to supporting religious rights in Xinjiang, especially those relating to important festivals such as Eid and the fasting month of Ramadan.
"All the people enjoy religious freedom, and the normal religious practices of believers are protected by law," he said.
A mass stabbing at a Chinese train station late on March 1 left 28 people dead and 113 injured in a "violent terrorist attack", state media said.
Chinese police investigators inspect the scene of an attack at the railway station in Kunming, southwest China's Yunnan province.
Separatists from China's northwest region of Xinjiang orchestrated the attack, the Xinhua news agency reported on Sunday.
It said evidence from the scene of the attack late Saturday by a group of knife-wielding people pointed to separatists from Xinjiang.
Victims described attackers dressed in black bursting into the station and slashing indiscriminately.
Xinjiang is periodically hit by violent clashes between locals and security forces but such attacks are rare elsewhere in China.
Police patrol on a street after a group of armed men attacked people at Kunming railway station.
A policeman stands guard near a man who was shot dead by police.
A man, who was shot dead by police, lies on a street after a group of armed men attacked people at Kunming railway station.
Separatists from China's northwest region of Xinjiang orchestrated the attack on a train station which left 29 dead, the Xinhua news agency reported.
Shoes are seen on the ground at the scene inside the Kunming railway station.
People wait outside the closed gate of the Kunming railway station.
Blood stains are seen on the square of the Kunming railway station.
A knife victim named Yang Haifei, who was wounded in the chest and back, told Xinhua that he had been buying a train ticket when the attackers approached.
The attack comes months after three members of the same family from Xinjiang crashed their car into crowds of tourists in Tiananmen Square in Beijing.
Some who managed to escape were desperately looking for missing loved ones.
Officers sealed off a wide area around the station, reports said, while police were questioning people at the site.
"A group of men carrying weapons burst into the train station plaza and the ticket hall, stabbing whoever they saw," said China News Service.
State broadcaster CCTV called the incident a "terrorist attack" on its Weibo account.
President Xi Jinping called for "all-out efforts" in the investigation and for the attackers to be punished "in accordance with the law", Xinhua said.
Xi and Premier Li Keqiang sent condolences to the victims and their families.
Photos posted on Sina Weibo showed blood spattered across the station floor and medical staff crouching over bodies lying on the ground, although the authenticity of the images could not be verified.
Images of spectacles, shoes and baggage strewn across the floor of the waiting room behind police tape, were also posted online.
This cellphone photo taken on March 2, 2014 shows an injured woman (C) sitting in a restaurant in the Kunming railway station after the attack.
Blood is seen on the ground outside after a knife attack at Kunming railway station.
An injured man is pushed on a gurney at a hospital after the knife attack.
An injured man is seen lying in a hospital bed.
People gather to lay a wreath by a statue of an Ox on a square outside the railway station in Kunming.
A group of eight wielding large knives killed 29 people and injured more than 140 at Kunming Railway Station.
Bodies of victims lie on the floor at a hospital.
Travel agency owner Chen Yugui, 50, witnessed the fatal shooting of four knife wielding attackers.
Chinese mourners light candles at the scene of the terror attack.
People gather to lay a wreath by a statue of an Ox on a square outside the railway station.
Chinese police walk past abandoned luggage at the scene of the attack.
Chinese police stand guard at the scene of the attack.
Chinese armed police patrol the scene of the terror attack.
Four attackers were shot dead by police at the time of the attack and a wounded woman was captured at the scene.
China has blamed separatists from its restive far-western region of Xinjiang.
Altogether eight members of a "terrorist gang" carried out the stabbing spree late Saturday.
In Kunming a taxi driver said she would stay away from the train station where the violence occurred, underscoring the tense sense of fear in the southwestern city.
Chinese armed police and officials help a sick woman who was at the scene of the attack.
A doctor checks an injured victim in a hospital chamber in Kunming No. 1 People's Hospital.
Madam Chen Guizhen, 50, (seen here with her niece in hospital) survived the terror attack at Kunming Railway Station, but her husband Xiong Wengong, 59, was not as lucky.
Kunming student Chen Ruilin, 23, suffered a hack at her forehead when the attackers stormed the ticket officer area where she and four other friends were.
Apples, burning incenses and candle holders are seen on the floor as people pay tributes to the victims of a knife attack at Kunming railway station in Kunming.
A man, whose relative was killed in a knife attack, lies on the floor as he burns offerings.
An injured victim sits on his hospital bed in Kunming No. 1 People's Hospital in Kunming.
A woman (C) leans on a relative's shoulder after her husband was killed in a mass stabbing.
Chinese police and paramilitary patrol the streets after the attack at the main train station in Kunming.
Attacks targeting civilians are rarer and almost unheard of in Yunnan province.
Relatives arrive at a funeral home to identify the body of a family member.
Get the latest news, opinion, trends, coverage, reports and more from AsiaOne—straight to your inbox! Or download our apps from Apple store or Google Play.