2015-08~09
http://funs.co/2015/09/11/trump-on-carly-fiorina-look-at-that-face-would-anyone-vote-for-that/

Trump On Carly Fiorina: “Look At That Face.. Would Anyone Vote For That?” | Funs.co
Donald Trump insulted another candidate during an interview with Rolling Stone magazine. This time it was Carly Florina. Is it going to be about her policies? Of course not. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“Another day, another Donald Trump insult making waves in an already-tumultuous election cycle.
The GOP front-runner added to his ever-expanding laundry list of questionable comments aimed at women with a knock at Carly Fiorina’s physical appearance made during a recent interview with Rolling Stone magazine.
“Look at that face! Would anyone vote for that? Can you imagine that, the face of our next president?” Trump reportedly bellowed while watching his Republican presidential rival on the news. “I mean, she’s a woman, and I’m not s’posedta say bad things, but really, folks, come on. Are we serious?””*
The House of Representatives passed a bill that would suspend the program allowing Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the U.S. until they are confirmed to not be a security risk. CNN's Joe Johns has the details.
President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau deliver remarks after their first formal sit down meeting in Manila on November 19, 2015.
Square CEO Jack Dorsey addresses concerns over the mobile payment company's lower valuation, saying that it is just 'one moment in time' and that they are focused on building a business for many generations.
While speaking in Alabama, Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson said Syrian refugees shouldn't be allowed in the U.S. without better vetting systems.
Red Bank teacher Jonelle Melton killed at home in 2009.
The alleged mastermind and sponsor of attacks in the French capital on Friday, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis on Wednesday, Paris prosecutor Franço...
Even though the world is focusing its anger at ISIS, it's not the deadliest terror group in the world.
The World Anti-Doping Agency is suspending Russia and five other countries because their monitoring programs don't meet its standards.