2015-08~09
http://www.sbs.com.au/news/storystream/thais-downplay-global-terror-links-bomb-two-suspects-cleared

Thais downplay global terror links to bomb as two 'suspects' cleared | SBS News
A bomb attack in Bangkok in which 20 people were killed was likely planned weeks in advance by a group of 10 people, Thai authorities said on Thursday.
But they appeared to rule out an international terrorist group and said Chinese people were not believed to have been targeted.
No one has claimed responsibility for the blast, Thailand's worst bombing, on Monday evening at a popular Hindu shrine crowded with tourists. The government has said the attack was designed to wreck an economy that relies heavily on tourism.
The elimination of foreign militant involvement would feed speculation that either Muslim separatists waging a low-intensity insurgency in southern Thailand, or domestic political activists, were involved.
National police chief Somyot Pumpanmuang said the investigation showed the attack was planned at least a month in advance by a network of least 10 people. "This includes those who looked out on the streets, prepared the bomb and those at the site and ... those who knew the escape route," he told reporters
"There must have been at least 10 people involved," Somyot said, adding nothing was being ruled out.
Police are focusing their hunt on an unidentified young man seen on grainy security camera footage, apparently planting a backpack bomb at the shrine, and have appealed to Interpol for help in finding this suspect.
They have also questioned the driver of a three-wheel "tuk-tuk" taxi who drove the suspect to the shrine. Two other men seen in the CCTV footage who police had suspected were accomplices have denied involvement.
Colonel Winthai Suvaree, a spokesman for Thailand's ruling junta, said security agencies working with counterparts from allied countries had reached a preliminary conclusion that foreign militants were probably not responsible.
"The incident is unlikely to be linked to international terrorism," Winthai said.
The city-centre Erawan shrine is particularly popular with tourists from China and other East Asian countries, and 14 foreigners were among the dead, seven from mainland China and Hong Kong. China is an important ally and trade partner for Thailand and the biggest source of foreign tourists.
Winthai said Chinese tourists were not believed to have been the target.
A day after police said the main suspect, dressed in a yellow shirt and shorts, with dark hair and a wispy beard, was believed to be European or Middle Eastern, they noted he might have been a Thai man pretending to be foreign.
They later said the tuk-tuk driver had not been able to communicate with the man, except to agree a fare. The man had shown the driver a photograph of the shrine to indicate where he wanted to go.
Police declined to say where the man had hailed the tuk-tuk and appealed for anyone taking photographs at the scene before the blast to submit their pictures.
One of the two suspected accomplices, spotted at the shrine on CCTV, had come forward to say he was a Thai tour guide, and the other was a tourist from China who had flown home, police said. Police spokesman Prawut Thawornsiri declined to say if the two had been cleared, pending a check on their documents.
International terrorists were not suspected of a bomb attack in Bangkok this week that killed 20 people and China was not the target, Thai authorities said on Thursday, as police said they believed at least 10 plotters were involved. 
There has been no claim of responsibility for the Monday evening attack on a famous shrine crowded with tourists, which the government has said was designed to wreck the economy. 
Authorities have not blamed any group for carrying out Thailand's worst bombing.
"Security agencies have cooperated with agencies from allied countries and have come to the preliminary conclusion that the incident is unlikely to be linked to international terrorism," said Colonel Winthai Suvaree, a spokesman for the country's ruling junta, known as the National Council for Peace and Order.
The Erawan shrine is particularly popular with tourists from China and other East Asian countries, and 11 foreigners were among the dead, including six from mainland China and Hong Kong, but Winthai said Chinese tourists were not believed to have been the target.
Thailand has asked Interpol for help in tracking down the man  they believe planted a bomb in Bangkok that killed 20 people, sending the international police organisation an image of the suspected bomber
The military government was initially reluctant in asking for outside help in the investigation of the blast at a famous shrine on Monday evening that killed 20 people and wounded scores.
"We sent a request for assistance," deputy national police spokesman Kissana Phathancharoen told Reuters.
There has been no claim of responsibility and police have not determined a motive for the worst ever bomb attack in Thailand.
Police suspect the young man caught in grainy footage leaving a backpack at the crowded shrine shortly before the explosion is foreign but Kissana said Thai police were not focused on any particular country or region with their appeal to Interpol.
"We basically sent in the modus operandi (of the suspect) and also the appearance of the suspect we're looking for," Kissana added.
The Erawan shrine at a main city-centre intersection is popular with tourists from China and other East Asian countries. About half the victims were foreigners.
The government says the attack was aimed at undermining Thailand's economy.
Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha initially said the attack was Thailand's problem and should be resolved internally.
Police have issued an arrest warrant for an "unidentified foreign man" in a yellow shirt seen in the video footage and have said investigators believe two other men seen on the footage were accomplices.
"We are confident at least three people were involved in this, but maybe more," Kissana said.
Checks at airports and other exit points found that no one matching the description of the main suspect had left the country since the attack, he said.
On Tuesday, a small explosive device was thrown at a busy pier on Bangkok's main river but no-one was hurt. Police have not ruled out a link.
The Erawan shrine, which is popular with Buddhists in Thailand, has since reopened.
Visitors have left messages of condolence, flowers and candles at the site.
Thai police say the prime suspect in the deadly bombing of a Bangkok religious shrine was overheard speaking a foreign language other than English.
Police have interviewed two motorcycle taxi riders near the shrine, one of whom gave a ride to the suspect.
A Bangkok court arrest warrant for the unnamed man describes him as a tall foreigner with white skin.
Thai police said a suspect captured by CCTV cameras minutes before a bomb exploded at Bangkok's Erawan shrine was a foreigner, and his appearance suggested he might be from Europe or the Middle East.
Police spokesman Prawut Thawornsiri also said investigators were now convinced two other men seen on the grainy video footage were accomplices.
At least 20 people were killed in Monday's blast in the heart of the Thai capital. The government says the unprecedented attack on the city was designed to wreck the country's economy, which depends heavily on tourism.
A handout picture released by the Thai Royal Police on 19 August 2015, shows a detailed sketch picture of a man suspected of planting a bomb near the Erawan Shrine, in Bangkok, Thailand, 19 August 2015. (EPA/ROYAL THAI POLICE HANDOUT)
No one has claimed responsibility for the evening rush-hour bombing, in which 11 foreigners from several Asian countries died and more than 120 were wounded.
Prawut said in a televised interview that an arrest warrant had been issued for a "foreign man", a sketch of whom showed a fair-skinned youth with thick, medium-length black hair, a wispy beard and black glasses.
"He had white skin and must have been a European or have mixed blood, perhaps with Middle Eastern blood," Prawut said, without giving a reason for his assumptions other than the colour of the man's skin.
The sketch was based on footage that showed a man dressed in a yellow T-shirt dumping a backpack inside the shrine compound and walking away through a crowd of tourists about 20 minutes before the explosion.
Prawut earlier tweeted that police were offering a 1 million baht ($US28,100) reward for information leading to the arrest of the suspect. He said two other men, one dressed in red and another in white, were seen milling around the first suspect, apparently shielding him from the view of the crowd as he placed the rucksack in front of a railing.
Earlier, police had said they were sure some Thais were involved in the attack. The shrine, a blood-spattered scene of charred motorbikes and debris after the blast, was reopened on Wednesday.
Police have not ruled out any group for the attack, including elements opposed to the military government, though they say it did not match the tactics of Muslim insurgents in the south or so-called 'red shirt' supporters of the previous administration.
Angel Rabasa, an expert on Islamist militancy at the RAND Corporation, said the attack could be the work of Islamic State, which has been expanding its reach in Southeast Asia, or an al Qaeda-related or independent jihadist group. However, such groups usually claim responsibility for their attacks.
Police said they were also considering the possibility that ethnic Uighurs were behind the bombing.
Thailand forcibly returned 109 Uighurs to China last month. Hundreds, possibly thousands, of members of the Turkic-speaking and largely Muslim minority have fled unrest in China's western Xinjiang region, where hundreds of people have been killed, prompting a crackdown by Chinese authorities. Many Uighurs have travelled through Southeast Asia to Turkey.
However, Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha sought to cool speculation of a revenge attack by Uighurs.
"I have always said that what the government did was within the boundaries of the law and by international agreement," he told reporters. "If we did not send them they would have been a burden to Thailand.
I don't want this issue raised." Police chief Somyot Pumpanmuang said no direct connection had been established between Monday's deadly blast and a small explosive thrown from a bridge towards a river pier in Bangkok on Tuesday.
No one was hurt by that second bomb. A government spokesman had initially said there were "patterns" linking the two bombs which both used TNT.
The blast comes at a sensitive time for Thailand, which has been riven for a decade by a sometimes-violent struggle for power between political factions in Bangkok.
A parliament hand-picked by a junta that seized power in a 2014 coup is due to vote on a draft constitution next month.
Critics say the draft is undemocratic and intended to help the army secure power and curb the influence of elected politicians.
(Reporting by Amy Sawitta Lefevre, with additional reporting by Pracha Hariraksapitak, Pairat Temphairojana and John Chalmers; Writing by John Chalmers; Editing by Ian Geoghegan)
Thai police said on Wednesday they had still not established the nationality or whereabouts of the man they suspect bombed a Bangkok shrine, killing at least 20 people, suggesting the trail had gone cold after he was captured by CCTV at the scene.
Authorities said they were keeping watch for the suspect at the country's borders, but police chief Somyot Pumpanmuang told a news conference that it was not clear how many people were involved in the attack or if they were still in the country.
"I don't suspect one person, I suspect many people," he said.
"I am confident that there are Thais involved but I am not saying it is just Thais or that there are foreigners." On Tuesday, a day after the bombing at the popular Erawan shrine in the heart of Bangkok, grainy closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage was released showing a young man dumping a backpack at the scene and walking away. The government says the attack was aimed at wrecking the economy, which depends heavily on tourism.
No one has claimed responsibility for the blast, which according to the latest official toll killed 20 people - more than half of them foreigners from several Asian countries - and wounded more than 120.
Deputy police chief Jaktip Chaijinda said earlier that investigators believed the man on the video resembled a foreigner more than a Thai.
At least two foreigners have been interviewed in connection with the blast, police said. Jangling nerves in the city on Tuesday, a small explosive was thrown from a bridge towards a river pier, sending a plume of water into the air, but no one was hurt.
Thais offer candles and flowers in central Bangkok, Thailand, 18 August 2015, for the victims of bombing next to the scene of the bomb blast on 17 August outside Erawan Shrine. (EPA/RITCHIE B. TONGO)
A government spokesman initially said there were "patterns" linking the two bombs in that both used the explosive TNT, but police chief Somyot said no direct connection between them had been established.
Police Major General Pornchai Suteerakune, commander of the Institute of Forensic Medicine, said the bodies of almost all those killed at the shrine had wounds inflicted by ball bearings that were packed into the bomb. The shrine, a blood-spattered scene of charred motorbikes and debris after the blast, was reopened on Wednesday.
The footage of the young man with a yellow T-shirt and shaggy dark hair shows him entering the shrine compound with a backpack on, sitting down against a railing and then slipping out of the bag's straps.
He then stands up and walks out apparently holding a mobile phone, leaving the bag by the fence as tourists mill about.
Police spokesman Prawut Thavomsiri said a sketch of the man had been completed and facial recognition technology would be used to try to identify him, but he added that it was possible the suspect was in disguise at the time. "We believe it is a network and not just one person operating alone.
From looking at the CCTV footage we think that the yellow shirt man was maybe operating with one or two other people at the scene," he added, without elaborating. Prawut had earlier tweeted that police were offering a 1 million baht ($28,100) reward "to whoever can give information that leads to the arrest of the suspect".
Police have not ruled out any group, including elements opposed to the military government, for the attack, though they say it did not match the tactics of Muslim insurgents in the south or 'red shirt' supporters of the previous administration.
"The attack did not bear the hallmarks of either southern Muslim separatists or red-shirt militants," said Angel Rabasa, an expert on Islamist militancy at the RAND Corporation.
"Both groups have carried out terrorist attacks in the past, but not on this scale in terms of loss of life."
He said the attack could be the work of Islamic State, which has been expanding its reach in Southeast Asia, or an al Qaeda-related or independent jihadist group. However, such groups usually claim responsibility for their attacks.
Police said they were also considering the possibility that ethnic Uighurs were behind the bombing.
Thailand forcibly returned 109 Uighurs to China last month. Hundreds, possibly thousands, of members of the Turkic-speaking and largely Muslim minority have fled unrest in China's western Xinjiang region, where hundreds of people have been killed, prompting a crackdown by Chinese authorities.
Many Uighurs have travelled through Southeast Asia to Turkey. The blast comes at a sensitive time for Thailand, which has been riven for a decade by a sometimes-violent struggle for power between political factions in Bangkok.
A parliament hand-picked by a junta that seized power in a 2014 coup is due to vote on a draft constitution next month.
Critics say the draft is undemocratic and intended to help the army secure power and curb the influence of elected politicians.
 (Writing and additional reporting by John Chalmers; Editing by Alex Richardson)
Thai authorities said on Wednesday they were looking for accomplices of the chief suspect for the Bangkok shrine bomb blast that killed 22 people, a man who was captured on closed-circuit television (CCTV) dumping a backpack and walking away.
"We suspect he is the bomber," national police spokesman Prawut Thawornsiri said, referring to the man in a yellow T-shirt in a grainy video that has gone viral on social media.
"We are also looking for other suspects in connection with the blast. These types of attacks are not usually planned by one person alone," he added.
The government said Monday evening's attack at the popular Erawan shrine in the heart of Bangkok was aimed at wrecking the economy, which depends heavily on tourism.
No one has claimed responsibility for the blast, which killed 22 - nearly half of them foreigners - and wounded more than 120.
Jangling nerves in the city on Tuesday, a small explosive was thrown from a bridge towards a river pier, sending a plume of water into the air, but no one was hurt.
A spokesman for the government, Werachon Sukhontapatipak, said there were "patterns" between the two bombs in that both used TNT but no link had been established as yet.
A Thai lights a candle near the Erawan Shrine at Rajprasong intersection the day after an explosion in Bangkok, Thailand, Tuesday, Aug. 18, 2015. (AP)
The footage of the young man with shaggy dark hair shows him entering the shrine compound with a backpack on, sitting down against a railing and then slipping out of the bag's straps.
He then stands up and walks out apparently holding a mobile phone, leaving the bag by the fence as tourists mill about.
National police chief Somyot Pumpanmuang said the suspect could be Thai or foreign, though domestic media reports on Wednesday said he was not Thai.
Police have not ruled out any group, including elements opposed to the military government, for the attack though they say it did not match the tactics of Muslim insurgents in the south or 'red shirt' supporters of the previous administration.
"The attack did not bear the hallmarks of either southern Muslim separatists or red-shirt militants," said Angel Rabasa, an expert on Islamist militancy at the RAND Corporation.
"Both groups have carried out terrorist attacks in the past, but not on this scale in terms of loss of life."
Police said they were considering the possibility that ethnic Uighurs were behind the bombing.
Hundreds, possibly thousands, of members of the Turkic-speaking and largely Muslim minority have fled unrest in China's western Xinjiang region, where hundreds of people have been killed, prompting a crackdown by Chinese authorities. Many Uighurs have travelled through Southeast Asia to Turkey.
The blast comes at a sensitive time for Thailand, which has been riven for a decade by a sometimes-violent struggle for power between political factions in Bangkok. 
Thai authorities said on Tuesday they were looking for a suspect seen on closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage near a popular shrine where a bomb blast killed 22 people, nearly half of them foreigners.
The government said the attack during Monday's evening rush hour in Bangkok's commercial hub was aimed at destroying the economy. No one has claimed responsibility.
Jangling nerves in the capital on Tuesday, a small explosive device was thrown from a bridge towards a river pier, sending a plume of water into the air, but no one was injured.
Major-General Werachon Sukhondhapatipak said there were similarities between Monday's deadly blast and the smaller, Tuesday explosion, but added the authorities had not established links between the two. "Both were TNT bombs," he told Reuters. "There's a pattern, but we have not yet found links."
The man suspected of Monday's bombing at the Erawan shrine was seen in grainy CCTV footage entering the compound wearing a backpack, sitting down against a railing and then slipping out of the bag's straps.
Wearing a yellow shirt and with shaggy, dark hair, the young man then stands up and walks out holding a blue plastic bag and what appears to be a mobile phone. The backpack was left by the fence as tourists milled about.
National police chief Somyot Pumpanmuang said the suspect could be Thai or foreign.
"That man was carrying a backpack and walked past the scene at the time of the incident. But we need to look at the before and after CCTV footage to see if there is a link," Somyot told a news conference.
Police earlier said they had not ruled out any group, including elements opposed to the military government, for the bombing at the shrine, although officials said the attack did not match the tactics of Muslim insurgents in the south.
Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha also referred to the man as a suspect without giving details. He said there were "still anti-government groups out there." He did not elaborate.
Junta spokesman Werachon dismissed rumours that the man was disguised. "There was no disguise. He was wearing a t-shirt and shorts," he said.
Police were at the blood-splattered site on Tuesday, some wearing white gloves and carrying plastic bags, searching for clues to an attack that could hurt Thailand's important tourism industry and dent investor confidence.
The Thai baht fell to its weakest in more than six years on concern the bombing may scare off visitors. Thai stocks fell as much as 3 percent.
Police said the death toll was 22, with 123 people wounded.
"Police are not ruling out anything including (Thai) politics and the conflict of ethnic Uighurs who, before this, Thailand sent back to China," Somyot said.
Hundreds, possibly thousands, of members of the Turkic-speaking and largely Muslim minority have fled unrest in China's western Xinjiang region, where hundreds of people have been killed, prompting a crackdown by Chinese authorities. Many Uighurs have travelled through Southeast Asia to Turkey.
The blast comes at a sensitive time for Thailand, which has been riven for a decade by a sometimes violent struggle for power between political factions in Bangkok. An interim parliament hand-picked by a junta that seized power in a 2014 coup is due to vote on a draft constitution next month.
Critics say the draft is undemocratic and intended to help the military secure power and limit the influence of elected politicians.
The Erawan shrine, on a busy corner near top hotels, shopping centres, offices and a hospital, is a major attraction, especially for visitors from East Asia, including China.
Four Chinese, including two people from Hong Kong, were among the dead, a Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman said. A British resident of Hong Kong, two Malaysians, a Singaporean, an Indonesian and a Filipino were also killed, officials said.
Scores of people were wounded, including many Asian tourists. China urged Thailand to thoroughly investigate the blast and punish those responsible.
Tourism is one of the few bright spots in an economy that is still struggling more than a year after the military seized power. It accounts for about a tenth of the economy and the government had been banking on record arrivals this year following a sharp fall in 2014 because of protests and the coup.
Occasional small blasts over recent years have been blamed on one side of the domestic political divide or the other. In February, two pipe bombs exploded outside a shopping mall in the same area as the Monday blast but caused little damage.
Thai forces are fighting a low-level Muslim insurgency in the predominantly Buddhist country's south, but the separatists have rarely launched attacks outside their heartland.