2015-08~09
http://crooksandliars.com/2015/09/what-was-really-wrong-o-reilly-s-bernie

What Was Really Wrong With O’Reilly’s Bernie Sanders Ambush | Crooks and Liars
There’s nothing wrong with Fox News’ Jesse Watters ambushing Senator Bernie Sanders in public, per se. But Watters wasn’t trying to get answers, he was trying to embarrass and demean Sanders.
The Young Turks’ Cenk Uygur and Ana Kasparian discussed this point in a recent video, above.
“If you’re gonna come in there and ask him [Sanders] hard questions about his policies, then I actually would be 100% on your side,” Uygur said about Watters. But, Uygur pointed out, “They treated him like a joke.”
Kasparian added, “It is a reporter’s job, a reporter’s duty to ask the tough questions. But the questions have to have some sort of credibility behind them...and the questions he was asking were just ridiculous!”
As I previously noted, O’Reilly's excuse for ambushing Sanders was bogus in the first place. O’Reilly complained that Sanders “has been dodging us” when, in fact, Sanders appeared on The O’Reilly Factor in April. How much more interest do you really think O'Reilly had in what Sanders has to say?
In fact, if O’Reilly really wanted to interview Sanders, he’d have made sure Sanders was asked real questions and not only ones meant to demean him such as, “You’re not so big time now that you’re gonna forget about your friends, right?" and "O’Reilly’s a little concerned that if you do become president you might seize his house. Should he be worried?"
Furthermore, Hillary Clinton has not been on The Factor at all. As Uygur comments in the video, Watters will almost certainly not be ambushing her.
I’m not as optimistic about Sanders’ chances at becoming president as Uygur is. But for those of us who recall O’Reilly’s meltdown when President Obama was re-elected, “President Sanders” would certainly be a lovely payback for this hit job.
Crossposted at News Hounds.
We watch Fox so you don't have to!
Sam missed it. The republicants don't consider the first seven years of Obama's term(s) "legitimate".
Like the Clinton people have never attacked Bernie or the people who vote and give money to him. LOL.
Via @azabaro and @blknrdproblems: A cause for concern among many, "The Killing Joke" is coming to DC Animated Film http://blacknerdproblems.com/t... …