2015-08~09
http://tribune.com.pk/story/963040/niqab-ban-is-hot-button-issue-in-canada-election-debate/

Niqab ban is hot button issue in Canada election debate - The Express Tribune

A Conservative government policy, introduced in 2011, prohibited wearing such a veil during citizenship ceremonies. PHOTO: AFP
MONTREAL: Prime Minister Stephen Harper sought to win over the key French-Canadian vote in an election debate Thursday with a firm defense of a popular niqab ban that split his rivals.
With only four weeks left before October 19 legislative elections, a woman’s right to wear the veil, which covers all of her face except the eyes, has become a hot-button issue.
A Conservative government policy, introduced in 2011, prohibited wearing such a veil during citizenship ceremonies. But last week, a court struck down the ban.
Harper has appealed the decision to the Supreme Court, and said that, if re-elected, his Tories would make it the law.
“When we join the Canadian family we should not hide our identity and that’s the reason we believe that new citizens should recite the oath with their face uncovered,” he said.
A poll taken in March as debate over the matter reached a fever pitch showed 82 percent of Canadians supported the ban. In the predominantly French-speaking province of Quebec, that number climbed to 93 percent.
Read: Women’s veils a sign of backwardness, says official in China’s Xinjiang
Thomas Mulcair, leader of the New Democratic Party, which lead in recent public opinion polls in Quebec, has come out in favor of a woman’s right to wear whatever she wants.
In the context of a citizenship ceremony, however, he said he would still require a woman to remove her veil to prove her identity.
The Liberals, led by Justin Trudeau, have also pitched the importance of upholding individual rights in Canada’s multicultural society.
“If a man can’t tell a woman how to dress, we should not have the state telling a woman what she shouldn’t wear,” Trudeau said.
During the debate, Harper maintained that the niqab is anti-woman.
Turning to Mulcair, he said: “I will never say to my daughter that a woman has to cover her face because she’s a woman.”
Although less than a few thousand women across Canada wear the veil, the niqab evokes powerful emotions, mixing individual rights, religion, women’s issues and culture.
The separatist Bloc Quebecois has said it would go as far as suspending certain constitutional rights in order to stop any woman from wearing the veil in Canada.
Its leader Gilles Duceppe said the garment represents the “repression of women.”
Both Mulcair and Green Party leader Elizabeth May, however, downplayed the issue, calling it a red herring.
Mulcair accused Harper of “trying to hide his government’s economic record behind the niqab.”
“What is the impact of the niqab on the economy? What is the impact of the niqab on climate change? What is the impact of the niqab for the unemployed?” said May.
“It’s a false debate meant to distract Canadians and avoid debate on real challenges for Canada,” she said.
The court battle at the center of the controversy was brought by Toronto-area resident Zunera Ishaq, who argued successfully that the ban violated her religious freedoms under Canada’s rights charter.
Originally from Pakistan, Ishaq arrived in Canada in 2008 and passed her citizenship test in 2013. But she refused to participate in the oath-reciting ceremony because she did not want to do it with her face uncovered.
Ekos polling released Thursday showed the Tories’ anti-niqab position had helped swing the party back into the lead in the election with 35.4 percent support nationwide, while the New Democrats fell from first to third place, behind the Liberals.
In Quebec, where 78 out of 338 seats in Parliament are up for grabs, the New Democrats lost eight points in recent weeks, dropping to 38 percent, a Leger poll found.
During the debate the party leaders also sparred over assisted dying, climate change, oil and gas pipelines, security, Syrian refugees, unemployment and Quebec independence.
The New Democrats swept Quebec in the 2011 ballot, which helped propel the party for the first time into the role of official opposition and a stone’s throw from power.
The Conservatives are not expected gain seats in Quebec this round despite a bump in support.
But any votes the Liberals or Bloc grab from the New Democrats in Quebec help the overall Tory campaign, and Harper appeared content during much of the mash-up to let his rivals attack each other.
Thumbs up for our brave Muslim communities specially women living in the west and observing whats right despite all hate and propaganda of being backward etc. Your struggles have successfully attracted humanity towards Islam and those who are not blinded by hatred and prejudice shall eventually find the right way, Insha Allah, and come out of the propaganda.Recommend
If you cannot abide by the rule of the country you go to why go thee and cause all this ruckus.Stay back and enjoy life as you are accustomed to.Recommend
I think all these Niqab related issues being raised is really less related to the dressing, but its more related to Islamic Culture in the US & West.Recommend
Today’s news, “Burqa is a “garment of extremism” and “backwardness”, a top Chinese official has said while denouncing the veil worn by Muslim women as an outer cover misused by people to hide their identities.
“We Uyghur people don’t like to see women wear such kinds of clothes either, and by covering the eyes, the burqa represents some kind of backwardness,” Shewket Imin, a Muslim official of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region Committee of the ruling Communist Party of China, was quoted as saying by state-run Global Times.
Shewket lamented the problems when people misuse burqas to hide their identities. He said some men wear burqas to abduct children.
Burqa is the “garment of extremism,” not ethnic minority costume nor a Muslim cloth, Shewket said after the release of a government “white paper” on Xinjiang on Thursday, outlining the government policies in the Uyghur Muslim majority province which is restive over an increasing settlement of Hans from mainland China.Recommend
I would like to see comments from women across the Canadian society to make a call on this. Men who prefer women wearing burqas should equally dress in same way when doing business and see how it feels.Recommend
In the near future, the burqa/niqab/veil will be banned all over the world. Good riddance.Recommend
I take back my previous comments about the burqa/niqab/veil, astaghfirullah.
It is a woman’s right and obligation to wear it. Allahu Akbar wa lillahil hamd.Recommend

This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, redistributed or derived from.
Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2016 The Express Tribune.
Technical feedback? [email protected]
