2015-08~09
http://www.informationclearinghouse.info/article42632.htm

 Pipelineistan — the Iran-Pak-China Connection :  Information Clearing House - ICH

 Zarif essentially said that IP is a go – again – as soon as 
 sanctions against Iran start to melt, by late 2015 or early 2016. 
 Iran has already invested $2 billion in the Iranian stretch of IP, 
 and China will finance the Pakistani stretch.
This is a major Pipelinestan gambit, as Asia Times 
 has
 
 previously reported. And as a side note, as soon as IP goes 
 online, all those years of incessant harassing by successive Bush 
 and Obama administrations will finally come down to nought.
Even before Zarif hit Pakistan something serious 
 was going on in … Karamay. You may have not heard of Karamay, but 
 this town in Xinjiang is right at the center of the Eurasian action; 
 it has just hosted the 2015 China-Pakistan Economic Corridor Forum.
As we all know, the China-Pakistan Economic 
 Corridor (CPEC) is an absolutely key component, worth $46 billion, 
 of the China-driven New Silk Roads. CPEC will link Kashgar in 
 Xinjiang to the Arabian Sea port of Gwadar via highways (essentially 
 an upgrade of the fabled Karakoram Highway), railways, industrial 
 parks, fiber optic networks and – eventually – a pipeline.
And that pipeline will be no less than an 
 extension up north of IP.
As part of CPEC, for instance, last month TBEA 
 Xinjiang SunOasis — a Chinese company — finished the biggest solar 
 power plant in Pakistan, for $215 million, in only three months.
At Karamay, China and Pakistan
 
 signed 20 CPEC-related cooperation agreements. They even issued 
 a Karamay manifesto, stressing the political/economic importance of 
 the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st-Century Maritime Silk Road. 
 CPEC is the largest China-Pakistan joint project since the 
 construction of the Karakoram highway in 1979. And CPEC is only one 
 among six economic corridors to be developed as part of the New Silk 
 Roads.
Yet the full impact of CPEC will only be noted by 
 the next decade. That’s when the New Silk Road for the bulk of 
 China’s energy imports from the Middle East will be cut short by no 
 less than 12,000 kilometers.
Meanwhile, Turkmengaz — Turkmenistan’s national 
 gas company — has taken a 51% stake in a consortium still seeking to 
 build the perennially troubled TAPI 
 (Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India) gas pipeline, a serious 
 competitor to IP if it ever gets built.
That’s a game-changer because the Turkmen will now 
 be in charge of the construction and operation of TAPI Ltd. The cost 
 is a whopping $10 billion (IP will cost three times less); 
 investment to the tune of $4 billion and $6 billion in debt.
Still it all comes back to the same problem; who 
 wants to invest in a steel umbilical cord prone to all sorts of 
 sabotage traversing a war zone — western Afghanistan all the way to 
 Kandahar? In theory, “host countries” should be responsible for 
 TAPI’s security; in the case of Afghanistan, that qualifies as black 
 humor.
For the moment, Turkmengaz can only count on the 
 Manila-based but Japan/US-controlled Asian Development Bank (ADB). 
 That’s not much. The notoriously opaque regime in Ashgabat says it’s 
 seeking other backers — but no one knows where and how.
TAPI is still a pipe dream. Pakistan and India are 
 not seriously considering it viable even in the medium term. So it’s 
 back to IP.
Even after sanctions are lifted, Iran will need to 
 find an ocean of investment — at least $180 billion — to upgrade its 
 energy infrastructure and be able to start exporting natural gas to 
 Europe, in competition with Gazprom.
So Iran’s privileged Pipelineistan play for the 
 near future will be Asia – from Southwest Asia (Iraq and Oman) to 
 South Asia (Pakistan). With China ready to instantly capitalize on 
 every surge of Iran’s natural gas production.
Copyright 2015 Asia Times Holdings Limited, a duly 
 registered Hong Kong company.

Click for


Spanish,
 

German,
 

Dutch,
 

Danish,
 

French, 
 translation- Note- 
Translation may take a 
 moment to load.


What's your response? 
 -  
Scroll down to add / read comments  

In accordance
 with Title 17 U.S.C. Section 107, this material
 is distributed without profit to those who have
 expressed a prior interest in receiving the
 included information for research and educational
 purposes. Information Clearing House has no
 affiliation whatsoever with the originator of
 this article nor is Information ClearingHouse
 endorsed or sponsored by the originator.)