2015-08~09
http://www.scmp.com/article/1850414/who-was-behind-bangkok-blast-thailand-says-cant-rule-out-any-group-police-hunt

Who was behind the Bangkok blast? Thailand says can’t rule out any group as police hunt suspect caught on CCTV | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Thai authorities have not ruled out any group, including elements opposed to the military government, for a bomb blast in Bangkok that killed at least 21 people, but officials said the bombing did not match tactics used by insurgents in the south.
However, Thailand’s junta chief on Tuesday that authorities are hunting a male “suspect” seen on CCTV footage near the scene of the bombing.
“Today there is a suspect who appeared on CCTV but it’s not clear ... we are looking for this guy,” Prime Minister Prayut Chan-Ocha said, adding he was believed to be from an “anti-government group based in Thailand’s northeast”, the heartland of the anti-coup "red shirt" movement.
But National Police Chief Somyot Pumpanmuang earlier said that police “are not ruling out anything including [Thai] politics and the conflict of ethnic Uygurs who, before this, Thailand sent back to China."
Hundreds, possibly thousands, of the Turkic-speaking and largely Muslim minority have fled unrest in China’s western Xinjiang region, where hundreds of people have been killed, prompting a crackdown by Chinese authorities. Many Uygurs have travelled through Southeast Asia to Turkey.
Officials have not blamed any group for the bombing at the Erawan shrine, which the government called a bid to destroy the economy. No one has claimed responsibility.
Prayuth said the attack, which took place during rush hour in the capital’s bustling commercial hub, was unprecedented in Thailand.
Police Chief Somyot said the blast was caused by a pipe bomb.Three Chinese were among the dead, Xinhua news agency said. Two Hong Kong residents, two people from Malaysia and one person from the Philippines also died, officials said. Scores of people were wounded, including many from China and Taiwan.
Thailand has been riven for a decade by a sometimes violent struggle for power between political factions in Bangkok.
Occasional small blasts have been blamed on one side or the other. Two pipe bombs exploded outside a luxury shopping mall in the same area in February, but caused little damage.
Thai forces are also fighting a low-level Muslim insurgency in the predominantly Buddhist country’s south, but those rebels have rarely launched attacks outside their heartland.
"This does not match with incidents in southern Thailand. The type of bomb used is also not in keeping with the south," Royal Thai Army chief and deputy defence minister General Udomdej Sitabutr said.
The Erawan shrine, on a busy corner near top hotels, shopping centres, offices and a hospital, is a major attraction, especially for visitors from East Asia, including China. Many Thais also worship there.
"The perpetrators intended to destroy the economy and tourism, because the incident occurred in the heart of the tourism district," Defence Minister Prawit Wongsuwan said.
In Washington, the US State Department said it was too soon to tell if the blast was a terrorist attack. Spokesman John Kirby said authorities in Thailand had not requested US help.