2015-04~06
http://www.dawn.com/news/1190154/

At least 18 dead in attack in China's Xinjiang - World - DAWN.COM
BEIJING: At least 18 people are dead after ethnic Uighurs attacked police with knives and bombs at a traffic checkpoint in China's western Xinjiang region, Radio Free Asia reported on Wednesday.
The attack occurred on Monday in a district of the southern city of Kashgar, where tensions between Muslim Uighurs that call the region home and the majority Han Chinese have led to bloodshed in recent years.
Suspects killed several police officers with knives and bombs after speeding through a traffic checkpoint in a car in Kashgar's Tahtakoruk district, United States-based Radio Free Asia said, citing Turghun Memet, an officer at a nearby police station.
Armed police responded to the attack and killed 15 suspects “designated as terrorists,” Radio Free Asia cited Memet as saying.
The attack comes at the beginning of the Muslim holy month of Ramazan, a sensitive time in Xinjiang after an uptick in attacks over the past three years in which hundreds have died, blamed by Beijing on Islamist militants.
Repeated calls to the Xinjiang government news office were not answered. Such incidents are frequently reported in overseas media but not confirmed by the Chinese government until days later, if ever.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say repressive government policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam and on Uighur culture, have provoked unrest, a claim that Beijing denies.
Read more: China pushes Uighurs to give up fasting in Ramazan
World will show no sympathy towards china after their support to lakhvi yesterday in UN.
China ban on burqa and fasting during ramzan and even opposed other religious right of Muslim by suppressed them. why no one from Pakistan protest in the street as they do when something happened like this in the other parts of world
Muslim brothers are attcked in China...why our Govt & religious leaders silent !
We must go to support our Muslim brothers in China.
Hmmm what to say??? Its sad .. China should be encouraged to give basic rights to all citizens.
Its sad incident. Hope China will come with better policies to make this region peaceful.
Hope china learns to respect Islam and respect muslims and allow them to practice their faith without any hindrance
@helloWorld This is China's internal problem. It is none of our business.
China's internal problem. Let them handle it, hoping to do it tactfully.
Chinese government should be wise and allow freedom to practice religion in China. History proves that repression is ineffective as a long term solution. Freedom to practice religion is a basic human right as long as it does not infringe on rights of other citizens or on affairs of the State.
No country is free from suppressing minorities religion including Pakistan so we cannot blame China. Though as a Muslim I will email to China to respect Muslim Chinese just like any other Chinese.
@zafar iqbal Fully agreed. Almost 850 Muslims have been killed by the Firing Squads during last one year.
Muslim Men can not grow beard, ladies can not wear Burkas, Not even Eid prayers allowed, No fasting during Holy month of Ramzan. This is barbaric.
The Muslim nations should rise against China on Human Rights Violence.
China do this only against all the terrist 
act not any religion.....
We must not spare chinese as they are enemies of china.
China should not kill suspects unless they are proved terrorists by the judiciary. Yesterday only they saved lakhvi based on lack of evidence.
Pakistan MUST play a positive role in East-Turkistan. Our friends in Beijing will listen to us - is we only care!
It is rulers against the ruled commonly seen in many countries. Unfortunately China has the worse record of human rights.
In China, there is no mercy for anyone thinking different from the Government. If a mistake is committed even by a freind, condemnation should be forthcoming. This should be the policy of any right thinking nation.
PCEC should be built at any cost. Now foreign agencies will try their level best to sabotage PCEC project.
China only tolerates Buddhism and Confucianism and all these eastern religions especially Buddhism are noting but international expansions of Hinduism. India as a birth place of Buddhism, as a largest Hindu nation and second largest Muslim nation should raise prosecution of Muslims by china in UN.
China is a communist nation its not secular or Muslim country . they never allow 
even they never want to know what we needs or want.
@Pakistani do u really think that Pakistan is in a position to encourage the mighty China?
Every Government has the duty to ensure peace within its own territory in the best possible manner. This is what exactly Government of China does.Why Pakistanis and Indians are worried. They should demand from their respective government to do the same in their domains and have peace and prosperity.
China should adopt moderate policy otherwise extremists shall win sympathy across the Muslim countries and thus destablising the country. USA, India and West would certainly avail this opportunity.
Anytime China takes a strong stand against any issue in the UN, these kind of attacks follow. Recently China backed Pakistan against India in the UN and this happens. Lots of these attacks occurred in past couple of years since Chinese support to Syria and Iran in the UN. I am not floating conspiracy theories and the two may not be connected. I am merely pointing out the past pattern.
look at the smiles on chinese soldiers faces, they are enjoying !
Why, we are Pakistanis first. We have already suffered a lot in considering ourselves to be champions of Islam. This agitation seems to be an effort to delay CPEC.
China will not listen to Pakistan, it will say its internal matter and not to interfere.
I think it may have been done by RAW, just to break the bhabhai relationship between China and Pakistan and to derail CPEC.
Prohibiting its citizens from practicing basic tenets of religion is not a wise policy. China has the right to be tough on religious extremism and militancy but they should refrain from dictating to the ordinary people on how they dress up or not grow their beards.
@Fact its there internal matter. We've banned eating donkeys or fogs bcoz its our internal matter. India has banned beaf bcoz its there internal matter
I don't understand why Pakistan is quiet when it comes to China and make a big deal against Muslims in India. Why such double standards?
@zafar iqbal No we say No to people Indian people like You. Long Live Pak China friendship.
one thing we all pakistanies should understand.if we expect respect to our religion our culture.......than we should must respect the faith of others...their culture..their values...and the laws of the land if we reside there.
Chinese forces just responded to a terrorist attack. .no threat to Pak China CPEC if any extremist attacks from within or outside. . .Nonetheless, Eighur are also Chinese citizens and China should treat them with kindness.
This is all related to CPEC. The foreign powers are clearly not going to let go and swallow the bitter pill that is CPEC. Pakistan and China must stand firm and deal with iron fist these foreign nations who are now coming out in open to harm our mutual interests.
Is China decided to kill its Muslim population? Pakistan should approach China on diplomatic level because Pakistan cannot afford to host millions of refugees.
I think this is chinees way to say "RAMADAN MUBARK"
China has been very strongly repressing Islam and the culture of the Uighurs in the Xinjiang Province for years. There is a very strong resentment in the people of this region against Govt and the Han Chinese. As a somebody who has lived and worked in China for sevral years , I could always see the fear psychosis among the Muslims , who are a subdued community in China . It is not at all like how we in India live and mingle with our Muslim brothers. The general population looks with suspicion and keep the people of Xinjiang isolated from the mainstream in other cities of China where the Uighurs take up petty business.
The leadership in Pakistan who have close ties with China must take up the cause of the people of Xinjiang, who are so colorful and friendly people.
There is no freedom of speech for the people of Xinjiang even in their religious places , where a Government representative is always monitoring the proceedings during prayers religious gatherings .
@Toori , CPEC is also in China's interest, does not mean that we should not raise our concerns.
In the UN , China supported Pakistan against the release of Lakhvi on the grounds that sufficient evidence was not provided by India. With the same argument, the 15 suspects in Xinjiang should have been arrested and tried in a court of law instead of instant justice and execution by the army. On the other hand the Indian army has been trained to be very careful with Kashmiri protesters as we have high regard for human rights in India.
Its time for Pakistan to decide, to be silent on Anti-muslim policies, or to support Uighurs brothers
I believe if the muslim leaders send a delegation on peaceful diplomacy, china will have hard time saying NO!
There is no difference between myanmar and china policies towards muslims.
Will China still be a all weather friend when they line up a bunch of Uighars and execute them and then impose strict enforcement? Will we call it an internal affair and turn a blind eye? What is the difference between China and India in Kashmir.
Chinese ban on fasting during Ramadan is shocking and shows lack of understanding about Islam. Definitely a lousy decision and ill advised.
@kk These incidents are very rare in China but if restrictions carry on worst can happen. China needs to give freedom to all relogions to practice freely. Muslims are the most practicing religion in the world and it effects all if China disallows freedom of religion. Pakistan gov should try to solve this problem with China.

PIA’s fate to be decided at joint sitting of parliament


Pakistani scientist’s parents celebrate son’s feat in their dilapidated home


Disenfranchisement of women remains a hot issue in KP 


Pakistan fail to show up as Dhoni lauds India’s turnaround kings


From Cairo, It’s Saturday Night Live — without politics, sex or religion
