2015-04~06
http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2015-04/18/content_20464452.htm

Xi set to visit Pakistan and Indonesia - China - Chinadaily.com.cn
President Xi Jinping is to make a long-awaited visit to Pakistan next week, his first overseas trip this year.
The visit is expected to produce wide-ranging cooperation agreements, including many concerning the economic corridor linking the two neighbors. The trip, the first by a Chinese head of state to Pakistan in nine years, has sparked media reports that Xi will launch energy and infrastructure projects related to the corridor worth $46 billion.
Liu Jianchao, assistant foreign minister, said both countries will seal agreements covering areas including energy, transportation, infrastructure, trade, finance and technology during the two-day trip, which starts on Monday.
At a news conference in Beijing, Liu said the economic corridor－a key part of China's Silk Road initiative－is at the implementation stage.
The Pakistan Observer newspaper said Xi will see progress made on the corridor, which is a network of roads, railways and energy projects linking Pakistan's Gwadar Port with China's Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region.
Liu said the project will benefit Pakistan's economic development, and China is willing to provide financing support to Pakistan.
Zhou Gang, a former Chinese ambassador to Pakistan, said the corridor project, first discussed in May 2013, will be an engine for cooperation between both countries.
Pervez Shah, president of the All Pakistan-China Friendship Association, said the corridor will play a crucial role in Pakistan's development, especially as it involves infrastructure projects.
Pakistan's development has long been hindered by political strife and unrest, with protests in Islamabad, the capital, prompting Xi to postpone a visit in September.
China, which shares a 600-km border with Pakistan, has expressed concerns over stability in Xinjiang and has worked with Pakistan to combat terrorism.
Liu said intelligence shows that members of the East Turkestan Islamic Movement－an organized terrorist group that seeks independence for Xinjiang－are operating in Pakistan. Both countries will strengthen cooperation to fight terrorists, including this group.
After Pakistan, Xi will visit Indonesia from Tuesday to Friday to attend the Asian-African Summit and activities marking the 60th anniversary of the Bandung Conference.
He will give a speech on bolstering Asian-African cooperation and have bilateral meetings with leaders of other countries, Vice-Foreign Minister Liu Zhenmin said. He spoke at the same news conference with assistant foreign minister Liu, presided by Lu Kang, the new deputy director-general of the the ministry's Information Department.
In today's trending, beer drinking competition has contestants drinking from basins, bland watermelon leads to police case, raising money for sick child with suanlafen and heat drives monkeys to disturb residents.

 Copyright 1995 - 

 . All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form. Note: Browsers with 1024*768 or higher resolution are suggested for this site.

 License for publishing multimedia online 0108263             Registration Number: 130349       
