2015-04~06
http://www.worldbulletin.net/asia-pacific/161222/muslim-scholars-union-reacts-to-china-ramadan-ban

Muslim Scholars Union reacts to China Ramadan ban | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
An influential group of Islamic scholars has criticized an apparent fasting ban in China’s mainly Muslim Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.
According to international media reports, the country has banned Ramadan in parts of the far western region for Muslim Communist Party members, civil servants, students and teachers.
The region is home to many ethnic minority groups, including the Turkic Uighur people.
In a statement issued Thursday, the International Union of Muslim Scholars (IUMS) called on China to respect Muslims' rights and religious beliefs.
"Continuous religious and ethnic persecution over Muslims, especially in China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, is against Chinese and international law," it stated.
The statement offered no explanation as to exactly what laws it was directly referring to.
It added that the policy "is also contrary to the fourth Geneva Convention in 1949 approved by China," and called the apparent ban "a clear violation of one of the most important principles of modern international law."
The Union called on the Organization of Islamic Cooperation and other international organizations to protect Muslims.
This year's apparent attempts to control fasting are not the country's first.
In 2014, the government issued warnings to employees and students not to fast during the holy month.
It is also reported to have restricted men from having long beards, clamped down on religious education activities, and acted to control the entrances and exits to mosques.
In January 2015, the ban was extended to wearing burqas in public places.
Uighur, a Turkic group that makes up around 45 percent of the population of Xinjiang, has accused China of carrying out repressive policies that restrain their religious, commercial and cultural activities.
The IUMS is comprised of senior Sunni religious scholars from around the world.
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

UN sees need for space travel rules within 5 years

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
