2015-04~06
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/reuters/article-3097445/China-pressure-suspected-Malaysia-bars-Hong-Kong-teen-activist.html

China pressure suspected as Malaysia bars Hong Kong teen activist | Daily Mail Online

Published:
 07:18 EST, 26 May 2015

 | 
Updated:
 07:18 EST, 26 May 2015


KUALA LUMPUR/HONG KONG, May 26 (Reuters) - Malaysia on
Tuesday denied entry to a prominent teenage Hong Kong activist
for a series of talks on democracy in China, raising concerns
that Beijing may have put pressure on Kuala Lumpur.
Joshua Wong, 18, was one of the leaders of last year's
pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong that paralysed key roads in
the city for 79 days and presented China's Communist Party
leadership with one of its biggest political challenges in
decades.
Wong and other protest leaders were accused by China's state
media at the time of trying to foment a "colour revolution" to
undermine Beijing's rule.
He had been invited to Malaysia to participate in academic
talks ahead of the 26th anniversary of Beijing's Tiananmen
Square demonstrations and bloody crackdown on June 4.
"I don't rule out that there is pressure from the Chinese
government," Wong told reporters on arrival at Hong Kong
airport.
Wong was detained soon after arriving at the airport on the
island of Penang on Tuesday morning, then put on a plane back to
Hong Kong soon after. He said a Malaysian immigration official
had told him it was a "government order" to deny him entry.
Penang immigration authorities declined immediate comment
when contacted by Reuters. The Malaysian Consulate in Hong Kong
confirmed that Wong was listed as "not allowed to land" but
declined to provide any additional information.
China's Foreign Ministry office in Hong Kong couldn't be
reached for any immediate comment.
"We are still demanding that the government make clear why
they stopped Joshua Wong from coming here," said Malaysian human
rights activist Ng Yap-hwa, who helped organise Wong's visit.
"We're angry at the government's actions because there's no
reason that the Malaysian government should stop us from
organizing any international talk on the democracy movement."
In December 2012, Malaysia returned six ethnic Uighurs from
China's restive Western region of Xinjiang, who were seeking
asylum from China, Human Rights Watch reported, criticising
Malaysia for putting their lives at risk.
Malaysian authorities discovered and detained another 155
ethnic Uighurs last October. They were transported to Kuala
Lumpur airport but it is unclear what happened to them. Uighurs
are a Muslim minority from Xinjiang, an area beset by violence
that Beijing blames on Islamist militants and
separatists.
It is not only Chinese activists that Malaysian authorities
have stopped. In 2013, Australian senator Nick Xenophon was
refused entry on national security grounds after participating
in an illegal street rally for electoral reforms a year earlier.

 (Reporting by Anuradha Raghu and Yantoultra Ngui and Shan Kao;
Additional reporting by James Pomfret and Nicole Li; Editing by
Clare Baldwin and Nick Macfie)
Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group