2015-04~06
http://www.guelphmercury.com/opinion-story/5570553-healthier-relationship/

Healthier relationship
OTTAWA - Federal Finance Minister Bill Morneau will introduce the Liberal...
Crosby, Quick and Monahan named the NHL's three stars of the week
Zayn Malik was banned from growing a beard or dying his hair when he was in...
Free tuition would break down the barriers of our post-secondary...
Montreal mayor's musings on bottled water ban has industry's attention
You’re at a party, snacking on chips and dip, when you witness the...

 American and Chinese leaders like to talk about how they can co-operate in specific areas even as they compete for global influence. Pakistan, where Xi Jinping on Monday began the first visit by a Chinese president in nearly a decade, should be one of those areas.


 Xi's trip certainly looks like yet another in a series of power plays by Beijing. He announced $46 billion in new energy and infrastructure spending, much of it devoted to a network of roads, rail and pipelines linking the Pakistani port of Gwadar to China's far western Xinjiang province. China also looks set to build the Pakistani half of a long-delayed natural-gas pipeline to Iran. The infrastructure projects are central to Xi's ambitious "One Belt, One Road" plan to connect China by land and sea to the Middle East and Europe.


 Unlike some of China's other recent initiatives, this one needn't provoke undue concern in Washington. Pakistan has pressing infrastructure needs. Power outages — up to 18 hours a day in some places — have hobbled industry and spurred street protests. The country's two working ports are nearing capacity. The World Bank has estimated that transport and logistics bottlenecks cost Pakistan 4 to 6 per cent of gross domestic product every year. To the degree that Chinese-funded projects can help stabilize the fragile Pakistani economy and lay a stronger foundation for growth, they are welcome.


 Xi's plan for a China-centered Asia is, in this case, a good thing. Past Chinese pledges of aid to Pakistan haven't always materialized. Now China has strong incentive to ensure its projects go smoothly, which will demand Pakistan finally establish long-term security in some of the country's most unsettled areas, including the restive province where Gwadar is located. Pakistani officials have already talked of establishing a 12,000-strong security force to protect Chinese construction crews.


 A more invested China should also have less patience for Pakistan's unsavory behaviour. Already Chinese leaders have offered to mediate peace talks with the Taliban and pressured their Pakistani sponsors not to play the spoiler in Afghanistan as U.S. forces withdraw. A flurry of attacks by Uighur extremists — some thought to be inspired by foreign fighters hiding out in Pakistan — has cast an unflattering light on Islamabad's own ties to Islamist militant groups.


 None of this is to say that China's agenda complements America's, or that it is entirely wholesome. Arms sales and aid for Pakistan's civilian and military nuclear programs are clearly intended to keep pressure on India, which has also been seeking a larger role in Asia. Helping Pakistan to develop a sea-based nuclear capability (Xi is also expected to conclude a deal to sell Pakistan eight conventional submarines, more than doubling its fleet) or to deploy tactical nuclear weapons could destabilize the subcontinent. At the same time, Chinese support for Pakistan's military modernization efforts is long-standing. There's little reason the U.S. should expect to change the pattern.


 What the U.S. can do is seek out areas where its interests in the region coalesce with China's. Beijing is concerned about a rising tide of Islamism in Pakistan — particularly within its military — and yet can't match U.S. expertise in training officials and supporting secular educational programs. Similarly, China is happy to have U.S. drones continue to kill Uighur militants in Pakistan's tribal areas.


 In theory, China even favours closer economic ties between Pakistan and India, so that their strategic competition is balanced by a healthier economic relationship — much like China's own relationship with the U.S. However uncomfortable that dynamic can be, it's one Washington has no choice but to promote.

Filled with a rich history, set in a stunning atmosphere, and serving wonderful food, the Aberfoyle...
Jennifer Steffler of Steffler Hearing Aid Service in Guelph is one of the few health care...
Most heart attack victims feel some symptoms in the days leading up to the attack. The most...
It’s not every day that you get to help solve a mystery while enjoying delicious food and rousing...
Blood Pressure Kiosk In-Store*




High blood pressure is one of the main risk factors for heart...
Since they opened their doors more than 25 years ago as an independent automotive repair resource...
Primary (or essential) hypertension is when the cause is unknown. The majority of hypertension...
A forward-looking property developer in Burlington, Ontario, possesses a truly visionary talent for...
Let’s deal with the grim news first. According to the Heart and Stroke Foundation, 9 out of 10...
Different factors, from currency fluctuation to our reliance on imported goods, have driven food...
Family Day is celebrated on the third Monday of every February and is the perfect opportunity for...
Take a look at our round-up of fun food crafts. Break a golden rule and encourage your kids to...
For many employed Canadians, a Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP) is the only real tax...
What is a blood clot?


A blood clot is a mass of blood cells and blood components that form when...
Triangle Sewing Centre in Guelph has a terrific selection of high-quality sewing machines and...
As the New Year begins, Collins Barrow Chartered Accountants would like to point out some of the...
You may have noticed that you've been forking over more bacon for your bacon at the grocery store...
Building a home can be complicated, but the trained builders at Dunsire Developments in Burlington,...
Sealy Karate School in Guelph, Ontario, offers a number of martial arts classes and programs for...
Many people do not worry about income taxes until they absolutely have to. This usually occurs in...
81% off Weight Loss Hypnosis, Life Coaching and Wellness Services in Guelph