2015-04~06
http://www.economist.com/node/21653657/comments

Comments on Dark corridor | The Economist
The Economist welcomes your views. Please stay on topic and be respectful of other readers. Review our comments policy.
Economist must work harder to get the facts. India is actively supporting terror networks in Pakistan along ethnic and religious lines. Balochistan is under Indian attack.
Its so disappointing to read such biased piece from Economist. It feels like the Indian Covert Ops directorate has dictated this article. CPEC is a result of Pakistan's defiance in the face of active sabotage by our neighbor India, through proxies. Baluchistan issue is being funded by the Indians through Afghanistan.
Indians should realize that acting on behalf of their white-western masters will get them nowhere. Asians value loyalty, and honour, something that Indians have no clue of
How can the Balochs be reassured of their ability to uphold certain cultural traditions without having to completely shut themselves off from the world?
If anything, the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) will keep Pakistan's neighbors honest with Pakistan.
There are many perceived vested national interest from outside nations or elements that do not care to see the realization of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). That’s perhaps why it is unwittingly called “dark corridor” by this Economist article.
-
Incidents of Baloch local opposition or killings are but some superficial phenomena of antagonist forces at play in the dark. Balochistan itself is not the cause and should not be blamed.
-
Just imagine, if I was say Iran, India, USA, NATO or Singapore, would I be thrilled to see a CPEC spruced up at Gwadar? Probably not in the first glance. But they will soon realize the benefit to each of them in broader vision.
-
In fact the first political mistake on Gwadar port development was Pakistani commission of the port development to none other than Singapore which managed to hold on the exclusive commission for 10 years and doing nothing about the development. China was then given the commission to pick up the pieces and now the port facility is being finished in earnest. But a decade of opportunities was lost in Pakistan for Gwadar port development.
-
IMO, despite of project and personnel security issues, CPEC should be routed through the heartland of Baluchistan as much as possible to stimulate and build up local and tribal economy. As a matter of fact, the 10,000-strong force that Pakistan promised to set up to protect Chinese workers could also be deployed and doubled up as some “construction corps” and “peace corps” function in Baluchistan to work together and help win the militant locals over to Pakistan.
-
Strategically, it is not hard for all oppositions to see that the Gwadar port facility and CPEC infrastructure are actually also to the interest and beneficial to each of them during the construction as well as upon the completion of the corridor project, including to Singapore.
I have serious concerns with the title of this article. Even the narrative of this article does not tell that the situation is such a 'dark'. However, Pakistan is capable enough to cope with any dark situation and China have full confidence in Pakistan's capabilities. With the will of God, Pakistan is going to be an Asian Tiger and no one can stop it.
There's no shame in being the smaller tiger, so long as local populations are afforded certain basic rights and protections.
"Dark Corridor"! the name has been chosen brilliantly.Now Pakistan will be burned by the same fire which it had made to burn her neighbors, especially Afghanistan. Pakistan created terrorists and Taliban to pursue her strategy and destroy Afghanistan's opportunities of growth and development. Now it is Pakistan's turn to pay for it!
The biggest obstacle to Afghanistan's growth and development is not Pakistan but the thought process you have depicted in your post. Before commenting on what Pakistan needs to pay, you need to see the ethnic mix of Afghanistan, its history and geography to see why this country is in a mess. By the way, when was the last time Afghanistan was a stable country?
Afghanistan was never a peaceful country because of it's geographic position. However it's recent turmoil is largely attributed to Pakistani Government and it's Non state actors who acts as a mix of mercenaries and rented hit man for different forces: often competing.
Would you please clarify what do you mean by "recent turmoil"? And how recent is this turmoil?
In that case recall all Afghan refugees from Pakistan and let them close the border permanently.
Last week, Mr Ghani in Afghanistan wrote a letter to NAwaz Sharif . He asked for a number of things to be done, to benefit the confidence building in the Afghan Government towards Pakistan.
An important request was to stop supporting the Haquanni network... Which seems to have become another broken promise, by the Pakistani Government.
If this is the characteristic of all Pakistani governments, then any hope for peace in Balochistan hasn't got a hope in hell.
All I can say to China is - Let us see before we beleive
Today the economist has proved that it is biased media group..today u highlited negative things in pakistan coz u dnt think positively about asia espacially pakistan..u and the whole west are feared when u look to the east for holistic progress..u said that blochastan is unstable ,rebilious and voilet since pakistan's independence from britain in 1947,its mean u people created rebilion elements in blochatan from the very first day of independence coz u didnt want to see pakistan as flourished country so u r the bone of contention..for ur kind information the people who were killed in bus attack on 29 May blong to ismaeli sect and were attacked by taliban whom u r backing as u dnt want the brightening economic corridor to b started..but by the grace of Allah and with the efforts of people of pakistan and china, ur fear has come true and economic corridor has inaugurated and started to b built and soon it will put a knif at ur chest and asia will become the developed side and u will become underdeveloped..as for as china is concerned there is not a single rebilion since couple of years coz in blochatan there is an elected democratic government which is elected by people of pakistan through free snd fair elections and they are satisfy with the govt and economic corridor..
Now Pakistan will be burned by the same fire which it had made to burn Afghanistan. Pakistan created terrorists and Taliban to pursue her strategy and destroy Afghanistan's opportunities of growth and development. Now it is Pakistan's turn to pay for it!
Balooch are the the most persecuted ethnic minority in the world and world has not taken any concern regarding this. Indiscriminately Balooch people are kidnapped , women are raped and killed. Those in Pakistan care for human right like Sabeen Mehmood , who raised the issue of Mama Qadeer whose son was kidnapped by Pakistani agencies , was murdered recently. People talk about Palestine and gaza but ignore persecution of Balooch people for last 50 years.
Even talking about Balooch issue is not allowed in Pakistan by Military agencies. Recently LUMS had to cancel the program on balooch Issue.
 In this hostile atmosphere , what kind of investment China intends to do. Such investments on the blood of innocent Balooch brothers will be shame for CHina and world . Punjabi Pakistan has looted the entire other Pakistani provinces. And this project too is for the benefit of Punjab province.
 Think of a country where for building infrastructure , you have to establish an entire army unit and battalions. These are the harsh realities of Pakistan.
 Amid all these concerns it is scary how China would execute a project.
It is sad, but if anything China will just show Pakistani officials how to be even more ruthless. Look at what China has done in Xinjiang. They have sent tens of millions of non-Muslims in to overwhelm the local population. Next they had all of the schools promote Mandarin Chinese and repress local language and culture.
Soon the Balooch people will be sharing their land with thousands of Chinese. Perhaps the Balooch could resist Pakastani authority, but the Chinese will not allow such dissent. They get their way and China's enemies disappear.
soon the local people in xinjiang can use madarin to communicate with the rest of china, that's the china way, that's why we have a common language after thousands of years, on the other hand what have india achieved? still 100 languages left and indians have to use a foreign language ie english to speak to each other? shouldn't they learn something from chinese comrades please? lol
so what would you feel if some other linguistic authoritarian force, say the english or the japanese, force you study only their language and forget yours including your culture and customs ? the problem is that you believe that the only reason to live is to make money..oblivious to you and fortunately there are other reasons to make life a happy journey..and remember that " our faults irritate us most when we see them in others"..you are only doing what japan did to you many decades ago..did you enjoy it then ?
You dont have to worry about India. India is busy going to Mars while Pakistan is busy killing kids in the name of religion.
perhaps you didn't know, the comrades didn't ask you to forget your native language, they just encourage you to learn mandarin that's good for you to communicate with others, if you don't like it then fine then you won't learn it and nobody will send you to hell with a bullet in your head, ok?!
Love your communist cartoon-speak comment that sounds like something from a 1960s edition of Pravda. And you appear to be a devotee of E. E. Cummings!
Indians take pride in preserving their large numbers of languages because they have a rich classical and literary tradition that they will not give up. That is India's strength. China's strength is in imposing uniformity. Pick whichever attitude you like.
By the way, I notice that you have to communicate with the rest of the world in English. Does that not bother you? Aren't you waiting for the day when China can impose Mandarin on the rest of the world? Ram it down our vocal chords, so to speak? (A double pun!)
Pakistan is a country created on the basis of terror. Direct Action Jinnah succeeded because the then rulers in New Delhi willy nilly allowed him to hold the state to ransom and abdicated their responsibility.
Till March of 1948, Baloochistan was an Independent country. Baloochistan Zindabad.
Then the Army of Faithful, PakiArmy walked in and took over power and ever since Baloochistan has been ill-treated by the Sunni Feudal Punjabi Army LET AlQaeda Taliban combine.
But nationalism is born in the hearts of poets. It can rarely be snubbed out. The march of history proves this again and again.
So Baloochistan will be independent. China can play hard ball in South China Sea for only so long.
Punju-Taliban-LeT-AlQaeda - ISI combine can continue to teach children A for Allah, B for Bandook, J for Jihad, and K for Kaffir. Kaffir is to be killed but to the astonishment of Fascist Combine Kaffir flourishes.
While Combine frees the murderers of Salman and attackers of Malala, Kaffir Children focus on winning Spelling Bee competition year after year.
So Kaffir will be strong again, and the economy will become strong again. In 1600 Kaffir economy was 25% of world economy. in 1947, British plunder had reduced it to 2 % of world economy.
Kaffir economy will flourish because children are told to focus on maths and physics and chemistry. Everything will flow from that.
Combine will continue to harvest J for Jihad because it sustains universities which have been exposed by likes of Declan Walsh.
Till 1947, Baluchistan was part of larger dominion territories west of Bombay and part of British India. Before that Baluchistan was under the rule of Persians minus Gwadar which had been sold to King of Oman. Learn some history. Stop calling yourself Kafir-looks dumb. In 1600 India had been conquered by Muslims, so that was NOT kafir economy. Lay off the kafir cool aid and learn some real history. Your sarcastic slip is showing. Go S-P-E-L-L that.
"DISGUISED in the uniforms of paramilitary police, gunmen checked the ID cards of the passengers of a Karachi-bound bus before slaughtering all those they considered not native to the western Pakistani province of Balochistan. A total of 22 Pashtuns were killed in the attack on an isolated road south of Balo..."
If the victims were Chinese instead of Pashtun, this would cause an international uproar in one billion Chinese that would either lead to military response or total withdrawal of the $46 billion dollar investment .
The Chinese do not play games with guerrillas .
They will make the Pakistanis pay for breaches.
Unless Pakistan can guarantee bullet proof security,
then this economic project is as dead as those Pashtun gentlemen.
One brain-washed, madrasa-trained suicidal gunman with a Koran and a Kalishnikov with 30 round magazine
 can condemn Balochistan to Year 600 AD primitive development.
The odds are overwhelming that this trade corridor will not succeed.
The Chinese tend to get their way on these sorts of things. They can take large human casualties (who would dare complain). They have unlimited funds. They are utterly ruthless in promoting their national interest.
China will "succeed." Whatever that will mean. Within a decade there will be Chinese restaurants and Karaoke bars everywhere.
Bull.
China didn't "succeed" in Myanmar or Sri Lanka either, despite initial gains. The Chinese government is even hosting Aung San Suu Kyi this week, after having slammed her mercilessly during the army's rule when they thought they had the generals - and the country - in their pockets...
As if it were that easy...
Lots of Chinese have died in Pakistan and it didn't cause any uproar. Quite a few died in the construction of the Karakoram highway. The Chinese have no shortage of people.
OK. But are you qualified to make predictions about Chinese mega projects?
Pakistan is NOT Sri Lanka, or Burma. They don't call Pakistan Iron brothers for nothing. When Xi put his reputation on the line, he will make sure it happens. Why do you think they established AIIB, Silk Road fund?
Why didn't you mention India funding any idiot with a grudge against Pakistani state? We have problems but there are many positives in Pakistan as well. You chose to highlight the Baluchistan issue in bad faith, as if this is all Pakistan's own creation
India would fund the devil himself,if he had a bad word to say about Pakistan
The Baloshis have always been different from your normal Sunnis
They went against the grain and voted against partition.
A point to make, is that the army has been called in to do some police work. The army has never been trained for Policing - and so they will have many problems.
The last problem is that Pakistan, rightly or wrongly, blames India for fermenting problems here.
It may ore may not be the case - But it gets away from the heart of the problem - -- which is trying to win the hearts and minds of the Balochis.
Unfortunately, the army, with it's army attitudes and it's hidden agendas has been in charge of this problem most of the time.
Simple - The politics/army (or the lack of good politcs) in Pakistan are the real problem
One must not twist historical facts: the 'Baloshis' did not vote against partition. I do not know whether they are 'abnormal' sunnis but did you know that Khalid Shiekh aka KSM and Ramzi Yousef are Balooshi?
Your post seems to justify this wanton bus massacre of innocents-are you 'inspiring' terrorism in Baluchistan?
If Pakistani politics is justification for Baluch terror, what is the underlying cause of Baloshis unrest in Sistan/Baluchestan?
I am sorry - But the Balochis did vote against partition.
It is one of the reasons why they are rebelling now
If they were very loyal to Pakistan, then no-one in the world could get them to rebel
And hey - those wanton massacres can never be justified. But as you know, those terrorists do the same everywhere in Pakistan
There was no vote on partition. India was under British rule at the time and it was not a democracy. They decided what happened to the country.
Would you kindly give some well researched source of your information that Balochis voted against partition?
I am sorry too that you are so poorly schooled in history of Colonial India. The Baluch territories were administered parsimoniously by English and there was no way to conduct elections over such a vast sparsely populated land ( >5 million). And stop ranting about "partition" as it was some biblical event like the deluge. Colonial India become two Independent nations.
And clearly you are clueless about Baluch insurgency in Iranian Baluchestan. Why do you suppose they are rebelling? Maybe they want you Indians to lord over them instead of Persians.
BTW, Shame on Economist for allowing such historically false nonsense to be posted here without annotation.
Labeling this piece "Dark corridor" while it has not yet been turned "ON", betrays the writer's miserably desperate attempt to disparage a tectonic shift in Geoeconomics. For comparison, US maintained facilities in Baluchistan for years, NATO containers were attacked often but did not dissuade NATO from using Baluchistan. Now we are being told but a few insignificant, isolated events are supposed to scare the Chinese from a strategic stance? When will The Economist be highlighting similar Baluch activity in Iran in reference to Indian plans to develop Chabahar?
 Presently Baluch share this province with Pashtuns who are "native" to Baluchistan. Such wanton acts of terrorism simply make it easier for Pakistan to garner support among Pashtun half of Baluchis and stanch this permanently.
If the Chinese threaten to help Pakistan, I am sure there will be a rebellion of some sort to stop them.
Do you deny RAW activities in Balochistan? Ah, India the pious!
"If the Chinese threaten to help Pakistan, I am sure there will be a rebellion of some sort to stop them."
They've been helping Pakistan for decades. No rebellion to date.
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more