2015-04~06
http://www.economist.com/news/asia/21654585-islamic-state-prompts-alarm-and-soul-searching-across-asia-shadow-caliphate

The shadow of the caliphate | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
WHEN Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi proclaimed the restoration of the Muslim caliphate a year ago this month, the call for Muslims to come to fight for, and build, his Islamic State (IS), was heard not just in the collapsing Arab heartland, but also in Muslim communities as disparate as China, the Philippines and Australia. More than half the world’s Muslims live in Asia, so the rise of a violent and swaggeringly self-confident strain of global jihadism is bound to disrupt the region. Pre-existing groups of jihadists have been emboldened by the success of IS in establishing and defending its domain in large parts of Iraq and Syria. Asian governments worry that young people are being radicalised by IS propaganda, encouraged to travel to the caliphate or inspired to make bloody mischief at home. Of the thousands of Asians who have fought with IS, many will return home, bringing with them the ideology, networks and know-how of murderous terrorism.
The danger is perhaps most acute in Afghanistan and Pakistan, countries already torn by terrorism and insurgency. But there is also cause for alarm in the volatile post-Soviet republics of Central Asia, where political Islam is an alternative to nasty authoritarian regimes, and an estimated 2,000-4,000 people are among the 20,000 foreigners who have joined IS. China has strived in the past few years to root out extremism among members of the mainly Muslim Uighur minority in the vast western region of Xinjiang, and to blame global jihadism. It has estimated that 300 Uighurs have travelled to Iraq and Syria. But China’s countermeasures seem only to have sharpened resentment at what Uighurs see as colonial oppression by the Chinese state and its ethnic-Han majority.
Even in South-East Asia, where the numbers of IS recruits seem quite modest (some 500 Indonesians, 100 Filipinos, 50 Malaysians and a handful of Singaporeans), the question of how to respond to IS has political repercussions. In the Philippines, for example, peace between the government and Muslim rebels on the island of Mindanao is threatened by extremist groups that have pledged fealty to IS. Even in democratic Malaysia the introduction in April of new anti-terrorism legislation, including provisions for detention without trial, has angered not just Islamists but also a range of opposition politicians. Many see it as a pretext to restore powers granted by the colonial-era Internal Security Act, which was at times abused for political ends and was lifted only in 2012. Governments everywhere grapple with an impossible calculation: if they underestimate the threat, they expose their people to terrorist attacks; if they exaggerate it, their heavy-handed reactions may further strengthen the terrorists’ cause.
Concerns about the influence of IS have grown even in peaceful countries far from the main battlefronts. At a regional conference on “countering violent extremism” in Sydney this month, Australia’s prime minister, Tony Abbott, denounced its “brazen claim to universal dominion”. He lamented that “the tentacles of the death cult have extended even here,” recalling a bloody siege at a café in Sydney last December by an apparently deranged gunman with IS sympathies. Several dozen Australians are reported to have joined IS or Jabhat Al-Nusra, a Syrian rival affiliated to al-Qaeda. Controversially, Australia plans to strip citizens with dual nationality who are “known terrorists” of their Australian passports.
A few days before Mr Abbott spoke, Lee Hsien Loong, Singapore’s prime minister, had devoted part of his keynote speech at the Shangri-La Dialogue, an annual security forum, to the problem of IS. The public talk focused on China’s expansion in the South China Sea, but much of the backroom talk was about the gathering jihadist threat. Most striking was Mr Lee’s sobering assessment that this was a struggle that would last for generations. Looking forward 50 years, he suggested that jihadist ideology would surely have been seen to fail, or at least to have “weakened its hold on the imagination of troubled souls”. But he noted that Soviet Communism, “another historical dead end”, survived for 70 years before it collapsed. And that, for all its pretensions to absolute truth, was not a creed rooted in religion.
In comfortable, well-off Singapore, Malay Muslims are a largely well-integrated minority. But it was nonetheless a target for Jemaah Islamiah, a regional jihadist group whose spiritual leader, Abu Bakar Basyir, once linked to al-Qaeda, has pledged allegiance to IS. Jemaah Islamiah, guilty of terrorist atrocities in Indonesia, also planned bombings in Singapore shortly after the September 11th attacks in America. And even in Singapore, the internet is producing fanatics. Recently the authorities arrested a 17-year-old, radicalised online, and detained a 19-year-old student who was planning to join IS or, failing that, to assassinate government leaders at home. Singapore knows that it is both a rich country full of attractive targets for terrorists and a “little red dot” surrounded by largely Muslim Indonesia and Malaysia. IS has said it wants to establish a wilayat, a province of the caliphate, in South-East Asia. “Pie in the sky”, scoffed Mr Lee. But he worried that IS could establish a base in some ungoverned space in the region.
The difficulty is global: everywhere, efforts to fight extremism make the governments behind them even more of a target. Both Australia and Singapore are contributing to the coalition fighting IS in the Middle East. And, as all over the world, governments are becoming more vigilant at home and stepping up “deradicalisation” measures by working with moderate Muslims to counter jihadist propaganda. That is not easy, however. Propaganda—especially the astute use of the internet and social media—is IS’s forte. As both Mr Lee and Mr Abbott suggested, the appeal IS holds for “troubled souls” is incomprehensible to the leaders of prosperous modern states. And it is hard to marshal good arguments against a point of view you do not begin to understand.
How to make America’s penal system less punitive and more effective
Greece and the euro zone are stuck in an abusive relationship
Nelson Mandela’s legacy has been soiled, but the cause of international justice lives on
A row over the Pacific trade deal is harming America’s economic and political interests
Firms need skilled workers—and the prime minister needs to stop making panicky promises
How Africa’s most important failure can at last come right
America’s bloated prison system has stopped growing. Now it must shrink
A rebellion in the House shows how far apart the president and his party are
California bets on more generous tax credits to keep its cameras rolling
DNA analysis settles a mystery—and perhaps a bitter legal wrangle
Republican candidates are dividing between those who gaze back and those who look ahead
As the pope cries out for the planet, Latin America listens attentively but quizzically
The UN honours Venezuela for curbing hunger—which is actually getting worse
Many wonder what Xi Jinping plans next in his anti-corruption drive
Oil is bringing China and the Arab world closer economically. Politics will follow
Israel has warned Syrian rebels to steer clear of one particular minority
Is the Ugandan president’s 29-year rule coming to an end?
The French government’s economic reforms may be welcome, but they risk proving too little, too...
A special court to try Kosovars for war crimes moves closer
The war has made most Ukrainians see Russians as enemies, not friends
Ambitions for a big global role collide with austerity budgeting
Who should oversee Britain’s spooks? Judges not politicians, says a watchdog
Business is appalled at plans to further restrict non-EU skilled immigration
Free of coalition, the Tories are making promising efforts to improve the state
The English are under-represented in the United Kingdom—but only because they dominate it
Some of history’s most victimised peoples are obliterated; others eventually achieve statehood....
The life of Mustafa Dzhemilev is a parable of the Crimean Tatars’ struggles
Having consistently failed to live up to its huge potential, Nigeria now has a rare chance to turn...
The oil shock has left a deep hole in the government’s finances, but the economy is beginning to...
Nigeria’s diaspora is a source of money, markets, skills and ideas
Ropy transport links and energy shortages are the biggest obstacles to a flourishing economy
Violence, mainly but not exclusively in the north, has exacerbated Nigeria’s many problems
After so many false dawns, this one might just possibly be for real
The conglomerate built by Liu Chuanzhi is closer to its American and European counterparts than to...
Chinese firms listed on American stock exchanges are starting to go home
Supplier rebates are at the heart of some supermarket chains’ woes
“Wi-Fi first” technology will be great for consumers, disruptive for mobile firms
Neither profits nor a successful share offering guarantee long-term success
Demand for aircraft is strong, but turbulence cannot be ruled out
Companies are fighting inclusion on sanctions lists—and winning, sort of
The Middle East is a reminder to business of globalisation’s limits
The costs of Grexit still outweigh the benefits for both Greece and the euro area
Future returns on wealth will be lower than Thomas Piketty thinks
Retaliating against unfair trade practices is a calculation in cruelty
Cheap coffee, dear chocolate, warm seas and a stormy crop market
A judge rules a government takeover was illicit but caused no harm
Pressure mounts on two private-equity giants that did very well out of a disastrous takeover
Debt relief boosts growth, but only when it comes with conditions
After decades languishing in the laboratory, quantum computers are attracting commercial interest
The fashion for wearable technology may get rid of the need for passwords
Why friendship can help you play out of your romantic league
How a private matter between a woman and her doctor became the pre-eminent symbol of American...
Mavens and manners for the art collectors of Silicon Valley
Christopher Lee, portrayer of villains, died on June 7th, aged 93
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more