2015-04~06
http://www.ischoolguide.com/articles/15193/20150619/china-restricts-ramadan-fasting.htm

China Restricts Ramadan Fasting by Xinjiang Muslims : News : ISchoolGuide
In the region of Xinjiang, where most of the people are Muslim Uighur minority, the government of China restricts Ramadan fasting.
Some call it an attempt to clamp down on religious expression as China bans students, teachers and civil servants from observing the practice of fasting as part of Ramadan tradition. The Chinese government also ordered restaurants to stay open, according to a report by Aljazeera.
In a notice posted last week on the website of Jinghe county's Food and Drug Administration, food service workplaces were ordered to "operate normal hours during Ramadan."
Bole county officials were also told "not to engage in fasting, vigils or other religious activities,"  during Ramadan, as reported in a Chinese local government website.
The same notices of prohibition were also posted in other Xinjiang government and education bureaus and other websites.
Religious leaders in Qiemo county were also informed that inspections to "maintain social stability" will be increased and intensified during the Ramadan month.
With the recent ban on Ramadan fasting,  tensions between ethnic groups in the region are worsened, Uighur rights groups believe.
"China's goal in prohibiting fasting is to forcibly move Uighurs away from their Muslim culture during Ramadan," said spokesman for the exiled World Uyghur Congress, Dilxat Rexit.
He adds: "Policies that prohibit religious fasting is a provocation and will only lead to instability and conflict."
On Thursday, the World Uighur Congress called on the Chinese government to end its restriction on Ramadan fasting.
In a statement, the Uighur Congress said that such prohibitions only "deepen the division" between China's Uighur population and the rest of the Chinese community and "further resentment of the state."
Last year, China restricted Ramadan fasting under the guise of "protecting the health of students, while restrictions on religious practices by government officials are meant to ensure the state does not support any particular faith," Aljazeera reports.
Tags : China restricts Ramadan fasting, Ramadan, china, Chinese Uighur Muslim
Chicago Public School Students Hit Record Levels In International Baccalaureate Tests
NAIAS Education Day Offers Students Opportunities To Earn Educational Experience
Students' Digital Media Skills Can Win $10,000 In Scholarships In USC Shoah Foundation 2016 IWitness Video Challenge
After Extensive, Eight-Month National Search, Montgomery County Community College Names Dr. Kevin Pollock Next President
Stanford PERTS Lab And ClassDojo Partner to Bring ‘Big Ideas’ Into The Classroom