2015-04~06
https://in.newshub.org/china-intensify-terror-fight-15522860.html

China to intensify terror fight - NewsHub
Receive up-to-the-minute news updates on the hottest topics with NewsHub.
 
 Install now.
 

Beijing: China Monday announced new measures to intensify the fight against terror including enhanced video security monitoring in public transport and beefing up its counter terrorism operations against militants in the restive Muslim-majority Xinjiang province.
China will strengthen the building of a security network with measures that include intensified counter-terror operations on public transport and video security monitoring, a new circular issued by the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and the State Council said.
The authorities will reinforce police patrols to promote security, especially during morning and evening rush hours and in crowded places.
Security measures for public transport, including bus, subway and railway stations, airports, ports and along high-speed rail lines, should be intensified to prevent violence, terrorism attacks or extreme events, the document said.
Security should also be enhanced at some key venues including kindergartens, schools, financial institutions, commercial sites and hospitals, it said.
IS, Taliban anti-Islam, says Sufi forum; tells government Muslims scared
Rectify 'historical blunders', alleviate sense of fear among Muslims: Sufi outfit
The new measures were announced as part of scaling up security to counter the violent attacks by the East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), active in Xinjiang, where the native Uygur Muslims have been restive over settlements of members of the Han ethnic community.
The circular also called on police forces to step up criminal investigations to effectively solve deadly crimes or cases that may lead to "extreme situations".
To promote social security, the government will beef up administration in certain key sectors and real-name registration will be required in industries such as hotels, second-hand good trade, motor refitting and recreation services.
The document called for enhanced measures to build a security network that covers all grassroots communities and urged use of modern technologies such as information networks and security video monitoring systems.
It required the establishment of a national population information database linked to citizens' ID information and credit records.
Effective security analysis and rule of law are also needed to build the network, the document said, adding that the government will encourage the public to join by recruiting more community volunteers and promising handsome rewards for reporting serious crimes, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.

 Also read:
 Key suspect in Paris terror attacks to fight extradition to France


 Modi govt trying to divide Muslims, says Maulana Syed Arshad Madani


 Cuban Dissidents Urge Barack Obama To Promote 'Radical Change'


 At Sufi meet, PM Modi touches hearts of Muslims; says Allah has 99 names and none of them stands for violence


 PM Modi says some terror groups are instruments of state policy


 Maharashtra Legislator Suspended, Refused To Say 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai'


 Saudi Arabia 'planning NATO-like military alliance of Muslim states'


 




 


 Why — and how — Russia won in Syria


 




 


 Mahatma Gandhi didn't approve of forcing someone to say Jai Hind: Rajmohan Gandhi


 




 


 PM Narendra Modi is God's gift to India, messiah of poor, says Venkaiah Naidu Naidu


 




 


 Humans of New York Issues Open Letter to Donald Trump


 




 


 When PM Modi asked some blunt questions to BJP MPs from UP and got no answer


 




 


 Live Streaming: West Indies vs England, T20 World Cup: Live Cricket Score Updates


 




 


 Will Barbie's truth come to fore in Star Plus' Suhani?


 




 


 Live Match: Australia vs New Zealand, Live Score, Cricket Score Updates, ICC World T20 2016: Martin Guptill Gets Kiwis Off to Fast Start


 




 


 Govt. says three of 10 terrorists killed


 




 


 Defiant Grassley faces pressure from all sides in Supreme Court standoff
