2015-04~06
http://zeenews.india.com/news/world/china-to-intensify-terror-fight_1578220.html

China to intensify terror fight | Zee News
Beijing: China Monday announced new measures to intensify the fight against terror including enhanced video security monitoring in public transport and beefing up its counter terrorism operations against militants in the restive Muslim-majority Xinjiang province.
China will strengthen the building of a security network with measures that include intensified counter-terror operations on public transport and video security monitoring, a new circular issued by the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and the State Council said.
The authorities will reinforce police patrols to promote security, especially during morning and evening rush hours and in crowded places.
Security measures for public transport, including bus, subway and railway stations, airports, ports and along high-speed rail lines, should be intensified to prevent violence, terrorism attacks or extreme events, the document said.
Security should also be enhanced at some key venues including kindergartens, schools, financial institutions, commercial sites and hospitals, it said.
The new measures were announced as part of scaling up security to counter the violent attacks by the East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), active in Xinjiang, where the native Uygur Muslims have been restive over settlements of members of the Han ethnic community.
The circular also called on police forces to step up criminal investigations to effectively solve deadly crimes or cases that may lead to "extreme situations".
To promote social security, the government will beef up administration in certain key sectors and real-name registration will be required in industries such as hotels, second-hand good trade, motor refitting and recreation services.
The document called for enhanced measures to build a security network that covers all grassroots communities and urged use of modern technologies such as information networks and security video monitoring systems.
It required the establishment of a national population information database linked to citizens' ID information and credit records.
Effective security analysis and rule of law are also needed to build the network, the document said, adding that the government will encourage the public to join by recruiting more community volunteers and promising handsome rewards for reporting serious crimes, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.
Statement comparing Kanhaiya Kumar with Bhagat Singh a 'throwaway remark': Shashi Tharoor