2015-04~06
http://dailytimes.com.ng/china-pakistan-discuss-regional-security/

China, Pakistan Discuss Regional Security - Daily Times Nigerian Newspaper

 Welcome to Daily Times Nigerian Newspaper. Daily Times Nigeria newspaper is a Nigerian newspaper with headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria. Daily Times Nigerian Newspaper was at its peak, in the 1970s. Daily Times Nigeria newspaper was one of the most successful locally owned Nigeria Newspaper businesses in Africa. Daily Times Nigeria Newspaper went into decline after it was purchased by the government in 1975 as a Nigerian Government Own Nigerian newspaper. Daily Times Nigeria newspaper was sold to Fidelis Anosike in 2004 who is determined to make it the first and the best Nigerian Newspaper in Africa and accross the world of Nigeria. The Daily Times Nigeria newspaper provide fresh and unbiased exclusive stories in Breaking News, Politics, Entertainment, Sports, Features and more.
 
 
 


Welcome to Daily Times Nigerian News paper. Daily Times Nigeria news paper is a Nigeria news paper with headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria. Daily Times Nigeria News paper was at its peak, in the 1970s. Dailytimes Nigeria news paper was one of the most successful locally owned Nigeria News paper businesses in Africa. Dailytimes Nigeria News paper went into decline after it was purchased by the government in 1975 as a Nigerian Government Own Nigeria news paper. Dailytimes Nigeria news paper was sold to Fidelis Anosike in 2004 who is determined to make it the first and the best Nigerian News paper in Africa and accross the world. The Daily Times Nigeria news paper provide fresh and unbiased exclusive stories in Breaking News, Politics, Entertainment, Sports, Features and more.
Pakistan sought to alleviate China’s concerns on terrorism as President Xi Jinping wrapped up his two-day trip to the South Asian country.
While the two countries focused on China’s projected $46 billion of investment and loans to develop an economic corridor through Pakistan, terrorism and militancy also featured heavily in their discussions.
Addressing the Pakistani parliament, Xi hailed the “profound friendship” between Pakistan and China and praised Islamabad’s anti-terror efforts, saying the two countries “share a common stake in security.”
“Over the years Pakistan has overcome all kinds of difficulties and contributed greatly to the security and stability of China’s western border areas, and this is something that we shall never forget,” Xi said.
In his own address to lawmakers, Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif said Islamabad and Beijing “will fight together to eliminate the menace of terrorism.”
Sharif also assured Xi that “Pakistan considers China’s security as it’s own security,” but acknowledged there was still work to be done. “Our joint efforts in this regard have succeeded, but we need to intensify these efforts to accomplish our objectives.”
Xi, who arrived in Islamabad Monday, told Pakistani lawmakers that “China will assist Pakistan in strengthening its capacity for fighting terrorism and ensuring security. And we will work with Pakistan to tackle rising non-traditional security threats so as to provide a reliable security guarantee for bilateral economic cooperation and common development.”
China has long been concerned that Muslim militants in its western Xinjiang region may be getting training and support from fighters in Pakistan’s lawless tribal areas.
In addition to security talks, the visit saw the two sides launch a projected $46 billion in energy and infrastructure projects.
The projects focused on the China Pakistan Economic Corridor, a collection of roads, rail links, and gas and oil pipelines going from Pakistan’s southern seaport of Gwadar to southwestern China.
It is part of China’s wider vision to revive the ancient Silk Road, and join Asia to Europe via road and sea links.
A separatist insurgency in Pakistan’s restive Baluchistan province and Islamist militancy elsewhere have hampered development of the Silk Road.
Xi’s trip, originally scheduled for last year, was postponed due to security concerns resulting from anti-government protests in Pakistan.
Copyright Daily Times of Nigeria.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from Daily Times of Nigeria.
Contact: editor@dailytimes.com.ng
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *