2015-04~06
http://www.economist.com/news/books-and-arts/21649445-how-business-can-help-solve-asias-environmental-problems-need-green-revolution

In need of a green revolution | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
The Greening of Asia: The Business Case for Solving Asia’s Environmental Emergency. By Mark Clifford. Columbia University Press; 306 pages; $29.95 and £19.95.
THE Asian economic miracle has lifted millions out of poverty, but at terrible cost. Deforestation and foul water are just two of the insults to nature resulting from breathless expansion. Air pollution in Beijing has been described by the American embassy as “crazy bad”. Asia is one of the biggest contributors to global warming.  
Many blame economic growth, and the market forces and corporations that drive it, for this. So it is refreshing to see a clear-headed argument set out by Mark Clifford, a former editor-in-chief of the South China Morning Post, that markets and greenery can go together. Asian companies, he says, are ready to clean up.
Three conditions need to be met first. One is public engagement. In China a powerful independent documentary on pollution, “Under the Dome”, was viewed online by about 200m people before it was blocked by the authorities. From Korea to Kalimantan, the hyperactive use of social media by ordinary people is becoming a force for change.
The second factor is regulation. Richer countries in the region have cleaned up using policies such as emissions standards and road-congestion pricing. Mr Clifford praises the science-based approach that Singapore has taken to making buildings more energy-efficient. The campaign started modestly in 2005. By late 2013, it had increased the number of efficient buildings from 17 to nearly 1,700—about a fifth of the total building stock. The goal is to have four-fifths of buildings certified as green by 2030, with annual savings of $1.26 billion.
Most of the region’s other governments are laggards, though. Mr Clifford gives many examples of how the mispricing of resources leads to inefficiency and environmental harm. In China “land, labour and capital are all underpriced for its favoured industries,” he writes. Energy and water are used much more wastefully than if these resources were priced properly. Free electricity for farmers in India has led them to run “ever-deeper pumps that deplete water sources”. He contrasts poor government policy with progressive business efforts. Esquel, a Hong Kong textile firm, helps cotton farmers in Xinjiang, an arid Chinese province, fund water-saving drip-irrigation systems.
The author offers a sophisticated critique of China’s efforts to create green champions in renewable industries. The government’s willingness to spend money without concern for profit has benefited the environment. China invested $125 billion in clean energy in 2012 and 2013, he calculates, considerably more than the $101 billion that America spent. It is now the world’s largest manufacturer of wind and solar equipment; soon it will be the largest consumer of clean energy too.
But China’s approach also has deep flaws. Central planners could not stop local governments from lavishing subsidies on favoured local firms, so the country ended up with far too many manufacturers scrapping for business. The resultant wars sent Suntech, once the world’s biggest solar outfit, into bankruptcy.
The author makes a powerful case for phasing out all perverse subsidies, and for introducing muscular regulation that uses a mix of incentives and punishment to encourage green growth. America offers a good example: a successful trading system for sulphur-dioxide emissions solved America’s acid-rain problem by providing polluters with strong incentives to clean up; they could sell credits in the marketplace for a profit if they cleaned up beyond the minimum required by regulation.
The third element is the private sector. Unscrupulous companies deserve as much blame for the current mess as do lousy policies. However, this picture is changing fast. Leading Asian businesses are going well beyond regulatory requirements, showing that sustainable business practices can be profitable, too.
The Kadoories, a family of Iraqi Jews who landed in Hong Kong in 1880, are a good example. Best known for the Peninsula luxury hotels, they also control CLP Holdings, one of Asia’s largest energy companies. It owns mostly coal plants, making it one of the biggest polluters on the planet. A decade ago, sensing growing public concern and anticipating future regulation of carbon, the Kadoories took some radical decisions. The company vows to slash the carbon intensity of its power-generating businesses by more than three-quarters by 2050. By 2013 it was the biggest foreign investor in clean energy in China, and the biggest windpower developer in India.
Nor is CLP an isolated example. As Mr Clifford shows, companies like Hyflux, a Singaporean water-treatment and desalination firm, and Goldwind, a wind-energy titan in China’s far west, prove that innovative firms are helping to reverse decades of degradation. Manila Water provides three times as many people with safe and reliable supplies after privatisation as the government did before, at a fraction of the price. Infosys, an Indian outsourcing giant, is on its way to getting half its energy needs from renewables. As Mr Clifford writes: “It is well-run businesses that have the manpower, the money and the knowledge to reshape Asia’s approach to the environment.” There’s hope, then, for the future.
The EU’s policy on maritime refugees has gone disastrously wrong
Poised to triumph in Britain’s election, the Scottish nationalists spell trouble for the union
An Asian-Pacific trade deal looks within reach, but politicians should stop seeing it as a way to...
A Greek exit from the euro may soon become inevitable
The airline business is riddled with protectionism. The answer is open skies
As America inches towards a big trade deal with Asia, Barack Obama faces a showdown with his party
When law enforcement is just about force, people are killed
The city’s police have yet to put their murky past behind them
Iowa’s governor has a simple message to all presidential candidates
A law designed to help people with disabilities enriches lawyers instead
A farmer asks the Supreme Court to let him keep his crop
For a place associated with unrestricted freedom, the desert West has a lot of rules
Dilma Rousseff is in office but no longer in power
But in a big municipal poll, the losers also have something to celebrate
Some who make their living on the streets are luckier than others
A bilateral alliance that has served well for decades needs a makeover
India tries a cheap and cheerful way of teaching people to read
The strategic order in place in Asia since the Vietnam war is being challenged
Waste incinerators rile the public, but are much better than landfill
A struggle looms in Hong Kong’s legislature over political reform
South Africa’s poor are turning on those even more downtrodden
Nine months after the latest war, recovery is a distant prospect
The French president tries belatedly to catch up with other more competitive countries. But his...
Other European countries have moved faster than France on labour reform
The new Finnish government will impose austerity at home and abroad
Wolfgang Schäuble is Germany’s eminence grise and hard man on Greece
The general election on May 7th could decide Britain’s place in Europe
The Conservative prime minister is in the fight of his life. Time to put his shoulder to the wheel,...
The Democratic Unionist Party could be a big player next month
In the four sorts of constituency that will decide the election, the Conservatives face an uphill...
Some Tories think Boris Johnson will push them over the line. They are wrong
A coastal clue as to why the economic recovery isn’t producing votes for the Tories
The stigma of mental illness is fading. But it will take time for sufferers to get the treatment...
The European Union’s trustbuster turns her fire on Gazprom—marking a big change in European...
The advance of Emirates, Etihad and Qatar, latterly joined by Turkish Airlines, looks set to...
For carmakers, the profits bonanza from China will not last
India’s telecoms regulator is accused of doing the industry’s bidding
The management-pundit industry is a shadow of its former self
Efforts to stimulate the economy risk stoking an already blazing stockmarket
The Japanese are learning that the stockmarket can go up as well as down
Greece could alleviate its shortage of cash by issuing IOUs, but only for a time
Patent records reveal that the way inventions are made has changed over the years
How to clean up space by shooting down bits of junk
A mission to Mercury is about to end with a bang
Richard (Richie) Benaud, cricketer and commentator, died on April 10th, aged 84
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more