2015-04~06
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Xinjiang:-government-bans-fasting-and-other-religious-activities-during-Ramadan-34555.html

CHINA Xinjiang: government bans fasting and "other religious activities" during Ramadan
Beijing (AsiaNews/Agencies) – China has banned civil servants, students and teachers in its Xinjiang region – home to a large Muslim community – from fasting during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
The authorities have ordered restaurants to stay open. In some counties, religious vigils and activities associated with the month have been banned.
Out of Xinjiang’s 22 million people, almost nine million are indigenous Muslim Uighurs. Deemed a hotbed of terrorism, the region has seen rising tensions due to Beijing’s restrictive ethnic and religious policies.
Over the years, clashes and violent incidents have broken out between native Uighurs and ethnic Han Chinese settlers brought in by the Chinese government to swamp the indigenous population.
Going one step beyond simply discouraging government employees to forgo fasting, police and court officials in Awat County were ordered to “take the lead in teaching family members not to fast and not to participate in Ramadan-related religious activities”.
As in previous years, teachers and schoolchildren were included in directives limiting Ramadan fasting and other religious observances.
However, for Dilxat Rexit, a spokesman for the exiled World Uygur Congress, “Policies that prohibit religious fasting are a provocation and will only lead to instability and conflict.”
AsiaNews spoke to Josephine, one of hundreds of Christians from Al-Hasakah, who spent a year in the hands of the Islamic State group. She talked about psychological suffering, conversion attempts, and separation from her male relatives. She survived thanks to her faith. Her mother Caroline, a Caritas official, is the only one in her family to have been spared the ordeal. She also negotiated their release with IS, and gave a Jihadi copies of the Bible. Now she hopes “to meet the pope” with her entire family.
Sister Rani Maria was killed in 1995, stabbed 54 times. The murderer was a radical Hindu, incited by village leaders, who wanted to stop the nun's activities in favor of tribal poor. The path "that led me to forgive Samunder Singh has not been easy, but now he's my brother." Instead, "my mother said once: 'I would kiss his hands, because on them there is the blood of my daughter'." The exchange of the Indian bracelet that celebrates love between siblings; the moment of encounter with the victim's mother.

 
2003 © All rights reserved - AsiaNews C.F. e P.Iva: 00889190153 - GLACOM®
Copyright ÂŠ 2003 AsiaNews C.F. 00889190153 All rights reserved. Content on this site is made available for personal, non-commercial use only. You may not reproduce, republish, sell or otherwise distribute the content or any modified or altered versions of it without the express written permission of the editor. Photos on AsiaNews.it are largely taken from the internet and thus considered to be in the public domain. Anyone contrary to their publication need only contact the editorial office which will immediately proceed to remove the photos.