2015-04~06
http://www.worldbulletin.net/world/160729/china-bans-ramadan-fast-for-uyghurs

China bans Ramadan fast for Uyghurs | Caucasus | Worldbulletin News
Some local governments in China's unruly far western region of Xinjiang are stepping up controls on the Islamic faith followed by the Uighur people ahead of Ramadan, including making officials swear they will not fast.
The holy month, which begins this week, is a sensitive time in Xinjiang following an uptick in deadly attacks blamed by Beijing on militants over the past three years in which hundreds have died.
In recent days, state media and government websites in Xinjiang have published stories and official notices demanding that party members, civil servants, students and teachers in particular do not to observe Ramadan, something that happened last year too.
In Jinghe county near the Kazakh border, food safety officials decided last week that they would "guide and encourage" halal restaurants to stay open as normal during Ramadan, the government said on its website.
Those that do stay open would get fewer visits from food safety inspectors, it added.
Muslims worldwide observe Ramadan, during which many abstain from eating and drinking during daylight hours.
In Maralbexi county, where 21 died in violent unrest in 2013, party officials had to give verbal as well as written assurances "guaranteeing they have no faith, will not attend religious activities and will lead the way in not fasting over Ramadan", state media said.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including restrictions on religious practices, have provoked unrest, allegations denied by Beijing.
"China is increasing its bans and monitoring as Ramadan approaches. The faith of the Uighurs has been highly politicised, and the increase in controls could cause sharp resistance," Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the exiled Uighur group, the World Uyghur Congress, said in a statement.
Telephone calls to the Xinjiang government's spokesman seeking comment were not answered.
The government there has always denied trying to curb fasting, though officials and people younger than 18 are banned from participating in religious activities.
On Sunday, Xinjiang's Communist Party chief, Zhang Chunxian, warned that the region's stability faced "sustained pressure" from religious extremists.
China's Communist Party says it protects freedom of religion, but it maintains a tight grip on religious activities and allows only officially recognised religious institutions to operate.
China has around 20 million Muslims spread throughout the country, only a portion of which are Uighur, a Turkic-language speaking group that calls Xinjiang home. 
They were killed in an 'ongoing army operation' in El Oued province, 600 kilometres (370 miles) southeast of Algiers
US president starts his formal meeting with his Cuban counterpart in Havana
A report lays bare the extent of the damage since the insurgency began in 2009 and which at one point saw the armed group control swathes of territory across the northeast of Nigeria
'We agreed from the European Union side to increase the support to Lebanon that has been significant so far,' Federica Mogherini says
Interior ministry officials are probing all the facts and circumstances of the event
'Lack of cooperation regrettably seems to signal the continuation of a situation under which Palestinians suffer daily human rights violations under the Israeli occupation,' Makarim Wibisono says
'The delay in the entry into force of the rules agreed upon for responding to violations of the ceasefire in Syria is unacceptable,' a Russian general says
Iraqi forces are preparing to launch offensive to expel ISIL from Mosul, which was captured by terrorist group in 2014
Ukrainian pilot has been found guilty over journalist killings in the Russian-fabricated case
African Union hopes transparency and peace will prevail during elections in Niger, Congo, Benin, Cape Verde and Zanzibar; and referendum in Senegal
Tounes Movement Project has been launched by a breakaway group from the Nidaa Tounes party
Observers question Palestinian Authority's policy of putting all its eggs in elusive basket of 'statehood'
'This analysis shows very clearly why leaving the European Union would be a real blow for living standards, jobs and growth,' a business group head says
'The incentives are aligned for Iran to uphold its side of the deal. We're watching Iran like a hawk,' US VP says
Morocco's government has ordered out 80 of U.N. workers in Moroccan-held Western Sahara over an ongoing dispute regarding the Western Sahara
'I am delighted to join President Obama in wishing a happy, healthy, and prosperous Nowruz to all our friends around the world who celebrate this holiday,' says the secretary of state
Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

UN sees need for space travel rules within 5 years

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
