2015-04~06
http://www.worldbulletin.net/asia-pacific/157028/thailand-prolonged-detention-of-uighur-ruled-legal

Thailand: prolonged detention of ‘Uighur’ ruled legal | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
A Thai criminal court ruled Friday that the prolonged detention of 17 suspected Uighur was legal, but did not say which country – Turkey or China – they should be sent back to.
Danthong Breen, an advisor to the Union for Civil Liberty local human rights group who attended the hearing, told The Anadolu Agency, “the judges said that the immigration department did nothing wrong by detaining them, but added that it was up to the Thai government to decide which country to send them to.”
The suspected Uighurs – four adults and 13 children, all belonging to the same family – have become the subject of a tug-of-war between China and Turkey, both of which claim the 17 as their nationals.
While China has identified the group as from its Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, the family and their lawyer told the court Tuesday they had been granted Turkish passports by its embassy in the Thai capital while in detention.
The group was arrested by Thai police in March last year while crossing the Thai-Cambodian border and have since been detained at a Bangkok immigration detention center – where two of the children were born. Under Thai law, court approval must be obtained for detention periods of more than seven days.
The husband and wife, Ashan Teklimakan and Rukiye Teklimakan, told judges at a hearing Tuesday that the whole family – which includes the husband's two sisters and their children -- were Turkish citizens and wanted to go to Turkey.
Breen referred to the Friday ruling as “an awful decision”.
“Given that the fastest appeal processes are taking two to three years, these children could spend years in jail. But at least, the judges did not decide to send them back to China.”
The Turkish Embassy’s First Counsellor Ahmet Idem Akay told AA Tuesday that they were following the case since the family members were now “Turkish citizens.”
Several representatives from the Chinese embassy had also attended Tuesday’s hearing, while a police immigration officer giving testimony confirmed Beijing has asked Thailand to repatriate them.
Since October 2013, around 300 Uighur have been rounded up in Thailand. Many of them claim to have Turkish nationality and are currently in detention in Bangkok or in Songkhla, in the country's south.
On several previous occasions, Turkish passports held by Uighur have been shown to be fake and bought on the black market, and the holders eventually returned to China.
In September 2014, four Uighur were arrested in Indonesia for violating immigration law by using fake Turkish passports.
Many others from the Muslim ethnic group have been rounded up in Malaysia and charged with the same crime.
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
Chinese leader's resignation is sought as some Communist Party members believe his actions led to unprecedented problems and crises in all political, economic, ideological, and cultural spheres
Video purported to be of Japanese journalist held by Syrian terrorist organization uploaded to Facebook
Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

UN sees need for space travel rules within 5 years

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
