2015-04~06
http://www.news24.com/World/News/China-executes-Tiananmen-Square-attackers-20140824

China executes Tiananmen Square attackers | News24
Myanmar's parliament elects a new president as the head of the country's first democratically elected government, but it won't be Aung San Suu Kyi, the widely known face of the country's decades long struggle against military rule.

Multimedia   Â·   User Galleries   Â·   News in Pictures
Send us your pictures  Â·  Send us your stories

Beijing - China has executed eight people for "terrorist attacks", including three it described as "masterminding" a suicide car crash in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in 2013, state media announced.
The official Xinhua news agency said early on Sunday that the eight were involved in several cases connected to the north-western region of Xinjiang, where Beijing says separatist militants are behind a string of attacks that have rocked China in recent months.
Three of the condemned, named by Xinhua as Huseyin Guxur, Yusup Wherniyas and Yusup Ehmet, were "deprived of political rights to life" for their role in the brazen assault in Tiananmen Square in October.
Two tourists were killed in the attack, in which a car rammed into bystanders on the iconic square in the heart of Beijing before bursting into flames.
Three attackers also died in the incident Beijing blamed on Xinjiang separatists.
Xinhua said five others were executed, including Rozi Eziz, who was convicted of an attack on police in Aksu in 2013.
Abdusalam Elim was executed on charges of "organising and leading a terrorist organisation," Memet Tohtiyusup had "watched audio-visual materials on religious extremism" and "killed an innocent civilian" in 2013, and Abdumomin Imin was described as a "terrorist ringleader" who led Bilal Berdi in attacks on police in 2011 and 2013.
Xinhua, which cited the Xinjiang region publicity department in its report, did not say when the executions were carried out.
The sentences underscore the tough approach Beijing is taking to increasingly brazen and violent incidents.
The Tiananmen attack was one of several that have rocked China since last year, and which Beijing has blamed on Xinjiang separatists.
The far-western region is the resource-rich homeland of the Uighurs and other groups, and periodically sees ethnic tensions and discontent with the government burst into violence.
In March, a horrific knife assault at a railway station in the southern city of Kunming left 29 dead and 143 wounded.
Two months later, 39 people were killed, along with four attackers, and more than 90 wounded when assailants threw explosives and ploughed two off-road vehicles through a crowd at an Urumqi market.
Chinese courts, which are controlled by the ruling Communist Party and have a near-perfect conviction rate, frequently impose death sentences for terror offences.
The executions and sentences are part of a crackdown that comes after Beijing vowed a year-long campaign against terrorism in the wake of the Urumqi market attack.
In June, 13 people were executed for Xinjiang linked terrorist attacks.
Beijing does not say how many people it executes each year. But independent estimates put the total at around 3 000 in 2012, a figure higher than all other countries combined.
Exile groups say cultural oppression and intrusive security measures imposed by the Chinese government are the main causes of tension, along with immigration by China's Han ethnic majority, which they say has led to decades of discrimination and economic inequality.
Beijing, however, stresses ethnic harmony in Xinjiang and says the government has helped improve living standards and developed its economy.
24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.
24.com publishes all comments posted on articles provided that they adhere to our Comments Policy. Should you wish to report a comment for editorial review, please do so by clicking the 'Report Comment' button to the right of each comment.
How to make the most of the long weekend and Easter break.
...it's me, AGAIN! Anje Rautenbach reaches out to SA's busiest airport.
Time to get into the Easter spirit if you haven't already!

 Cape TownHire ResolveR240 000 - R300 000 Per Year
There is a tendency to over spend or have unrealistic expectations that could affect your budget. Slow down a bit and reorganise...read more
After a fun-filled weekend of playing, it is time to focus on reorganising your daily rhythm. Work before play is the focus for...read more
It is easy to overreact today as the under current energy is quite tense and heated. Try to remain calm and avoid the people and...read more
Just because you can`t see it, doesn`t mean it is not there. Let go of outwardly looking for directions and rely on your insight...read more
Focus on your foundations. Make sure they are solid before pushing ahead too quickly. There is a tendency to overreact or push too...read more
The moon moves into the ordered sign of Virgo emphasising the need to slow down and reorganise your daily rhythm. Too much of a...read more
You may find yourself becoming more critical and frustrated today as things may not flow as easily and harmoniously. The...read more
Try not to obsess too much on what you cannot have, and focus on pacing yourself back into reality and finding a way to create a...read more
As much as you like things to be endless and limitless and abundant, at some point you need to contain these dreams and ideals to...read more
If things are not working your way. Stop for a moment and look at other options. Pushing, forcing or reacting will not solve the...read more
The moon has now moved into analytical and ordered Virgo. It is a good time to take your creative ideas and dreams and find a...read more
The moon moves out of playful Leo throwing you back into the tendency to over analyse and over think things. Try not to push so...read more
News24 on Android
 Get the latest from News24 on your Android device.

TV
 Get us in your home, on your television. 

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.
This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

 News24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location.
 If you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences, please select a
 location for each component and click "Submit" in order for the changes to
 take affect.

 Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.


 Log in with Facebook to comment and personalise news, weather and listings.
