2015-04~06
http://www.economist.com/news/leaders/21656184-chinas-government-wonders-how-stop-terrorism-xinjiang-try-treating-muslims-more

Wooing Islamists with a beer festival | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
IN CHINA’S far western region of Xinjiang, the authorities are fearful. What they call terrorist attacks carried out by Uighurs, a Muslim ethnic group that regards Xinjiang as its homeland, have killed 400 people in the past couple of years. The latest such incident, on June 22nd, left 18 people dead near the southern city of Kashgar. In recent months officials in Xinjiang claim to have broken up more than 180 terrorist groups—at least one of them reportedly set up by Uighurs who had fought with Islamic State in the Middle East. State television recently aired footage of children being turned into “killing machines” for global jihad at a training camp near the border with Afghanistan and Pakistan. China’s rhetoric is overblown, but the country is right to worry about terrorism. In March last year a group of Uighurs knifed 31 Chinese civilians to death at a railway station in the south-western city of Kunming.
China recognises that part of the problem is a home-grown one: that many of Xinjiang’s 10m Uighurs have felt left out of the country’s economic boom. Thanks, not least, to its oil and gas industries, Xinjiang’s own economy has been growing fast, too. But this has mainly benefited ethnic Hans, who form about 40% of the province’s population. Firms in Xinjiang often prefer to employ Hans, because they speak better Chinese and because there is a shortage of skilled Uighurs. Officials say, plausibly, that better education for Uighurs is crucial for improving stability (see article). Overcoming racial prejudice among employers would help. In 2009 long-simmering ethnic tensions erupted into an orgy of rioting in Xinjiang’s capital, Urumqi, leaving around 200 people dead and the region even more ethnically divided than before.
The terrorist murder of civilians is wrong, however beleaguered a people. But China can help bring about the calm it seeks by treating Uighur culture and faith with more respect. Even as officials wage what they call a “people’s war” against terrorism, they inflame Muslim fury by banning women from wearing face-veils and men from growing long beards. Other countries, such as Belgium and France, have also mistakenly banned the veil, but China’s restrictions are especially draconian. In March a man was jailed for six years by a court in Xinjiang for “provoking trouble”; his offences included growing a beard. His wife got a two-year sentence for covering her face. Before the holy month of Ramadan this year, officials reiterated a ban on the observance of fasting rituals by bureaucrats, teachers and students. In January they decreed that pilgrims to Saudi Arabiamust travel in state-organised groups. (Few win permission to go.) Small wonder many Uighurs see what officials call “bilingual education” as a trick to marginalise their language and identity.
Last year China launched a hearts-and-minds operation in Xinjiang: 200,000 officials were told to spend time living among Uighurs in order to understand their problems. They clearly failed to listen hard enough. Earlier this month, as Muslims in Xinjiang prepared for Ramadan, rural officials near the city of Hotan decided to organise a beer festival. A local news website showed pictures of men glugging down beer in a drinking contest. Uighurs in exile expressed outrage; in a rare climbdown of sorts, the report was censored.
A counter-terrorism law is now being drafted that could allow officials to brand any unauthorised religious activity as “extremism”. That would play into the hands of terrorists. The way to peel violent extremists from the general population is to give Muslims fewer grievances. Heavy-handedness will only make Xinjiang—and the rest of China—less safe.
Doctors should be allowed to help the suffering and terminally ill to die when they choose
Institutional investors should divest from oil, gas and coal only if their beneficiaries understand...
The Kremlin cares little for the rule of law at home. Western courts are less malleable
After the commodity boom, the region needs a new formula for growth
Campaigns to let doctors help the suffering and terminally ill to die are gathering momentum across...
The Charleston massacre will not produce new controls on firearms
California’s budget does little to save it from ups and downs in future
Magna Carta helps to stop federal raids on raisin crops
America doesn’t pay ransoms, but won’t prosecute individuals who do
What a trade deal with Asia could most usefully include
Americans have never been anti-business, as long as its power is balanced by democracy
As memories of galloping growth fade, it is time for tough thinking about the future
India is reforming other bits of its economy, but not farming
Step aside, Somalia: South-East Asia is the new piracy capital of the world
Teaching Uighur children in Mandarin will not bring stability to Xinjiang
Local officials make a packet from a religion of self-denial
Both sides of Hong Kong’s political divide should rue the impasse on democratic reform
Islam’s most conservative adherents are finding that politics is hard. But it beats the...
The UN’s latest report on last year’s war in Gaza makes Israel nervous
Israel cannot afford to keep paying ultra-Orthodox men to shun employment
Freedom of the press is being chipped away under an embattled ANC
Even if Greece’s government manages to strike a last-minute deal with its creditors, it will be...
The French are “shocked, shocked” by American spying—but not their own
The rise of sliced bread in the home of haute cuisine
A string of scandals rocks Italian politics and Matteo Renzi’s government
As expected, forming a coalition in Turkey is proving challenging
The next general election will be fought between two female candidates
Greece and the euro zone cannot go on like this—but they probably will
Mark Carney has had a successful two years as governor. His biggest challenge is still to come
Plans to cut tax credits interrupt the Tories’ courtship of the working poor
Why the boom in big outdoor music festivals may not be sustainable
The impending closure of Britain’s last deep coal mines is a moment for reflection and awe
Governments believe their diasporas can solve all sorts of problems. But they are a picky,...
Theranos, an ambitious Silicon Valley firm, wants to shake up the market for medical testing
Theranos’s boss says her mission extends beyond making a fortune
Shareholders in what was once Russia’s biggest oil company scent victory
Like hospital operators, health insurers in America are seeking to merge
As Germans open their wallets, they will not lose their love of a bargain
Kirk Kerkorian made a fortune the old-fashioned way—by wheeling and dealing
Investors are being pressed to sell their holdings in coal, oil and gas
With bank lending still subdued, small businesses look elsewhere for cash
Why central bankers fixate on the monsoon as much as farmers
Democracy, it turns out, is good for growth after all
Electronics has already cut the data cord. Can it now cut the power cord as well?
The story of a conflict between America and China makes a fine example of future-war fiction
How one man became involved in two of the 20th century’s most important medical breakthroughs
An angry account of the suffering inflicted by the world’s appetite for illegal drugs
An important 17th-century carving gets the attention it merits at last
The design for the newest Guggenheim museum fails to excite
Nek Chand Saini, creator of the Rock Garden of Chandigarh, died on June 12th, aged 90
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more