2015-04~06
http://english.cntv.cn/2015/06/13/VIDE1434171241844926.shtml

Silk Road Journey Xinjiang Ep 5: Khorgas: From border town to rising trade center - CCTV News - CCTV.com English

Hot:
Exhibition of IPR protection
 | 
 Yuan
 | 
 Golden Era
 | 
 Four Comprehensives
 | 
 AIIB

Opinion | Panview | One Belt, One Road | Tibet | Closer to China with R.L.Kuhn
China | World | Business | Sports | Culture | Sci-Tech | Opinion | Special Reports
CCTV app for iPhone | iPad | Android Phone | I Love Africa for iOS | Android
Watch to Learn | Growing up with Chinese | Special Chinese | Travel in Chinese
CCTV-9 Docu Live | One City, One Flavor | World Heritage China | Roof of the World
Dialogue | China 24 | News Hour | Global Business | Sports Scene | Culture Express
China Video | World Video | Most Popular | Reporters | Correspondents |CCTV Interviews
Xi's speech | Military parade | Commemoration Ceremony | Patriotic songs
Khorgas is China's youngest city. It was officially established in 2014, after President Xi Jinping announced the Silk Road Economic Belt initiative. Since then, the city has seen the emergence of unprecedented opportunities, both for locals and migrants from China's eastern provinces, looking to strike gold. During harvest time in Xinjiang, the air is filled with the smell of fruits.But for decades, these fragrant crops were only consumed by locals.Yu Chengzhong used to be a simple farmer, who collected fruits from his neighbors and sold them to local marketplaces.But these days, he says, his customers are becoming more international. "In recent years, Xinjiang has built quite a number of greenhouses, and farmers can now grow out-of-season fruits. Such supplies are still in shortage in many regions and countries like Kazakhstan. And since China initiated the "One Belt One Road" project last year, there is a fast growing demand from Kazakhstan for our exports," Yu said.Yu's hometown, Khorgas, is right on the border of China and Kazakhstan.During the era of maritime trade, these landlocked regions were almost forgotten.But over the past few years, trade has seen a resurgence. Yu's small business has expanded rapidly into a logistics company exporting fruits to Central Asia by truck containers. "These fruits are very popular among Central Asian customers. The unique climate and fertile land in Xinjiang make them very juicy and sweet," Yu said.Yu's fruit export business, however, is just one very small part of the exploding cross-border trade in Khorgas, since President Xi Jinping initiated the Silk Road Economic Belt in 2013.Figures show that in 2014, nearly two million people from both sides traded in Khorgas's border trading market, known as the Sino-Kazakh Cooperation Center. "This year, the flow of people has increased quickly to over 12,000 per day. That's up from 8,000 per day last year. We now have to open all the check points to meet this rising demand," said Zhang Guangming, Khorgas Border Checkpoint Station.To further boost efficiency, the customs procedures have also been overhauled. Inside the trading center, these new policies have not just benefited locals, but also attracted many outsiders looking to claim their slice of the pie.Chen Xiaohua is a Chinese businesswoman in Yiwu, an eastern city known for its manufacturing of small products.She became rich by running a small clothing workshop there. And last year, she decided to take her fortunes all the way across the country and invest in the far west city of Khorgas. "Business was becoming harder in Yiwu, as the labor cost rose and overseas markets shrank. But here, there's a lot of new potential still untapped," Chen said.Spurred by that potential, she is now learning the Russian and Kazakh languages, focusing on the most important words... how to count from one to ten thousand, and how to say "good" and "bad", "expensive" and "cheap".Her "dictionary" is hung on wall, with Chinese words soundmarking the Russian and Kazakh pronounciation.Shy but shrewd, the businesswoman who came thousands of miles in pursuit of profit is confident about the future, and the locals, too, are optimistic... What used to be the last place people thought about business is now becoming one of the forefronts of China's global strategy.



Share this: 
Share on twitter
Share on facebook
Share on sinaweibo
Share on email




Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Instagram
Please scan the QR Code to follow us on Wechat

Climate Change Conference
G20, APEC Summits
Xi visits U.S.
Beijing 2022
Xi Attends BRICS Summit
Truth and Denial
July 7th Incident
Understanding the CPC
Li Attends 17th China-EU Leaders' Meeting
7th China-U.S. S&ED & 6th CPE
Dragon Boat Festival
The Basic Law
Beijing Bids for 2022 Winter Olympics
Xi Visits Kazakstan, Russia, Belarus
Nepal Earthquake
World Book Day
2015 Boao Forum
2015 Two Sessions
AirAsia Flight Crashed
