2015-04~06
http://www.asianewsnet.net/home/Islamophobia-in-China-and-Pakistan%E2%80%99s-vow-of-sile-73545.html

Asia News Network - Xchange Tool
PALU, Indonesia (The Jakarta Post/ANN) - Indonesian Military (TNI) commander General Gatot Nurmantyo on Monday pledged to continue the hunt for the country’s most-wanted suspected terrorist, Santoso, despite the deaths of 13 soldiers in a helicopter crash in Poso regency, Central Sulawesi.
JAKARTA (The Jakarta Post/ANN) - Indonesian courier companies on Monday expressed their optimism over the future of their business amid the ASEAN single market, citing a number of barriers to entry that will temporarily stop overseas companies from entering the country’s logistics industry.
TOKYO (The Japan News/ANN) - PM Abe wants West aware of China’s moves, North’s nukes.
TOKYO (The Japan News/ANN) - As few as 10 per cent domestic companies aim to achieve the government target to raise the percentage of female employees to managerial positions.
BANGKOK (The Nation/ANN) - Environmentalists are concerned deliberately lit fires in the Kaeng Krachan National Park could damage the forest ecology and disrupt plans for the park to be declared a World Heritage site.
BANGKOK (The Nation/ANN) - The lack of a major maintenance programme led to a breakdown of Bangkok’s Airport Rail Link yesterday morning, with six passengers injured following a sudden power blackout that left an operating train idle in the middle of its track, according to a former deputy Bangkok governor familiar with mass transit systems.
BANGKOK (The Nation/ANN) - Smog in the north has already caused 64,108 people to be hospitalised, while more patients are expected as a result of the air pollution.
PALU, Central Sulawesi (The Jakarta Post/ANN) - The chopper is believed to have been hit by lightning before it crashed.
HONG KONG (China Daily/ANN) - Hong Kong Chief Executive CY Leung, speaking at a symposium on the 13th Five-Year Plan, urged wider and deeper ties between the Special Administrative Region and the Guangdong province.
SHENZHEN (China Daily/ANN) - The Wall Street Journal quotes a Department of Commerce official to report the curbs are expected to be partially lifted this week.