2015-04~06
http://www.news24.com/World/News/18-die-in-terrorist-attack-near-Chinese-checkpoint-20150624

18 die in terrorist attack near Chinese checkpoint | News24
Myanmar's parliament elects a new president as the head of the country's first democratically elected government, but it won't be Aung San Suu Kyi, the widely known face of the country's decades long struggle against military rule.
Uighurs set a Chinese flag on fire as they stage a demonstration. (Adem Altan, AFP)

Multimedia   Â·   User Galleries   Â·   News in Pictures
Send us your pictures  Â·  Send us your stories

Beijing - At least 18 people died in a bomb-and-knife attack by ethnic Uighurs on unarmed traffic police in China's troubled Xinjiang region, Radio Free Asia (RFA) reported.
Citing an anonymous source, the US-based broadcaster reported late Tuesday that as many as 28 people including bystanders might have died in the attack on the outskirts of the city of Kashgar in north-western China.
Xinjiang is largely closed off to foreign media, delaying and compromising information from the region and rendering reports difficult to confirm.
The attack on Monday began when a car sped through a police checkpoint, the report said. Two passengers reportedly rushed out of the car and stabbed to death two police officers.
A battle then ensued involving three more attackers and armed police who arrived at the scene, Heyhag district police officer Turghun Memet told RFA.
It was unclear how many people, including civilians, died in total, the report said.
Asked to confirm the story, a man answering the phone at Ostengboyi police station told dpa "I don't know" and immediately hung up the phone. An Id Kah police station officer replied, "I don't know. You should ask my leader," and hung up.
The region has a long history of discord between the authorities and the indigenous ethnic Uighur population including attacks that claimed dozens of lives in 2014.
Uighurs, a primarily Muslim ethnic group, make up about 9 million of Xinjiang's 22 million people.
Many Uighurs in Xinjiang complain of cultural and religious repression and claim that ethnic Han Chinese migrants enjoy the main benefits of development in the oil-rich but economically backward region.
Chinese authorities in May announced via state broadcaster CCTV that they had foiled 181 terror plots in a year-long crackdown on the region.
24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.
24.com publishes all comments posted on articles provided that they adhere to our Comments Policy. Should you wish to report a comment for editorial review, please do so by clicking the 'Report Comment' button to the right of each comment.
How to make the most of the long weekend and Easter break.
...it's me, AGAIN! Anje Rautenbach reaches out to SA's busiest airport.
Time to get into the Easter spirit if you haven't already!

 Cape TownHire ResolveR240 000 - R300 000 Per Year
There is a tendency to over spend or have unrealistic expectations that could affect your budget. Slow down a bit and reorganise...read more
After a fun-filled weekend of playing, it is time to focus on reorganising your daily rhythm. Work before play is the focus for...read more
It is easy to overreact today as the under current energy is quite tense and heated. Try to remain calm and avoid the people and...read more
Just because you can`t see it, doesn`t mean it is not there. Let go of outwardly looking for directions and rely on your insight...read more
Focus on your foundations. Make sure they are solid before pushing ahead too quickly. There is a tendency to overreact or push too...read more
The moon moves into the ordered sign of Virgo emphasising the need to slow down and reorganise your daily rhythm. Too much of a...read more
You may find yourself becoming more critical and frustrated today as things may not flow as easily and harmoniously. The...read more
Try not to obsess too much on what you cannot have, and focus on pacing yourself back into reality and finding a way to create a...read more
As much as you like things to be endless and limitless and abundant, at some point you need to contain these dreams and ideals to...read more
If things are not working your way. Stop for a moment and look at other options. Pushing, forcing or reacting will not solve the...read more
The moon has now moved into analytical and ordered Virgo. It is a good time to take your creative ideas and dreams and find a...read more
The moon moves out of playful Leo throwing you back into the tendency to over analyse and over think things. Try not to push so...read more
News24 on Android
 Get the latest from News24 on your Android device.

TV
 Get us in your home, on your television. 

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.
This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

 News24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location.
 If you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences, please select a
 location for each component and click "Submit" in order for the changes to
 take affect.

 Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.


 Log in with Facebook to comment and personalise news, weather and listings.
