2015-04~06
http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/apr/2/inside-china-turkey-china-fight-over-uighurs-detai/

Inside China: Turkey, China fight over Uighurs detained in Thailand - Washington Times
Lena Dunham: I face 'more hostility' from Sanders supporters than conservatives
Republican senators skipping recess to block Obama Supreme Court appointment
Donald Trump could be doomed by brokered convention, history suggests
CHARLES HURT: Donald Trump may be flawed, but Washington is worse
Johns Hopkins team cracks encryption for iPhone; Apple vows to fix
Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders ahead of Donald Trump in Utah -- the reddest state in nation
Hillary Clinton goes after Donald Trump in AIPAC speech: 'If you see a bully, stand up to him'
Michael Flynn says Army must ditch war data network DCGS
A diplomatic dispute has erupted over China’s and Turkey’s competing claims for 17 ethnic Uighurs who were detained in Thailand on charges of illegal border-crossing. Each is demanding the Uighurs’ return.
The Uighurs entered Thailand via Cambodia to escape their homeland in China’s Central Asian region of Xinjiang, where ethnic tensions between the Uighurs and the Chinese government have escalated in recent years.
The Uighurs are Turkic Muslims who live mostly inside Xinjiang, which was conquered by China’s Qing dynasty (1644-1911).
Because of ethnic, cultural and linguistic affinities, Turkey has been actively involved in improving the Uighurs’ lot in communist China. Ankara has been vocal in criticizing China for its mistreatment of the ethnic minority group.
The 17 Uighurs hail from one family in Xinjiang. They escaped from Cambodia and entered Thailand, where they were detained by police for illegal border-crossing. Thirteen of them are children, including two who were born in a Thai detention center.
Turkey issued passports to the 17 Uighur detainees and gave them permission to migrate to the country.
China vehemently objected to Turkey’s move and insisted that the Uighurs are Chinese nationals who should be sent back to China.
A Thai court convened a hearing March 24 to decide to which country the Uighurs should be sent. Chinese and Turkish diplomats attended the hearing.
On March 27, the court said a final decision could not be made and that Thailand would continue holding the group.
International human rights organizations have urged the Thai government not to return the Uighurs to China, where they may face persecution.
In early March, Heiner Bielefeldt, the U.N. special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief, issued a scathing condemnation of China’s rights abuses against the Uighurs. China responded with a boilerplate rebuttal, calling Mr. Bielefeldt’s charges “groundless.”
A Chinese fishing vessel was demolished by a giant bulldozer March 20 to demonstrate the Taiwanese government’s seriousness in enforcing laws against China’s rampant illegal fishing operations.
The action caught Beijing by surprise because Taiwanese President Ma Ying-jeou is often praised by the communist government for his China-friendly policies.
The Chinese fishing vessel was caught Dec. 28 off the coast of Jinmen, popularly known in the West as Quemoy, a heavily fortified island 6 miles from the Chinese coast. Three Chinese fishermen were charged and tried by a local court and were given sentences of two to six months.
Copyright © 2016 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
Miles Yu’s column appears Fridays. He can be reached at mmilesyu@gmail.com.