2015-04~06
http://www.techtimes.com/articles/45380/20150411/chinese-villagers-alarmed-by-appearance-of-fiery-sinkhole.htm

Chinese Villagers Alarmed By Appearance Of Fiery Sinkhole : T-Lounge : Tech Times
By Ted Ranosa, Tech Times | April 11, 10:23 AM
A mysterious sinkhole was discovered outside of Urumqi, the capital of China’s Xinjiang region. According to reports, the hole emanated a bright orange glow and gave out intense heat, which led to locals and tourists to call it "the gateway to hell."(Photo : Stefan Krasowski | Flickr )
A mysterious hole in northwestern China has captured the imagination of locals and tourists alike. The pit, which offered a glimpse into what could be a massive furnace beneath the earth, is now being called "the gateway to hell."
The 31-inch crater is located just outside of Urumqi, the capital of China's Xinjiang region. According to reports, it was discovered a week ago by construction workers who were working on a building for tourists. The hole emanated a bright orange glow and gave out intense heat, causing an immediate concern for the safety of the residents.
Geologists from the Xinjiang Meitian Geological Bureau, along with mining experts, were quickly dispatched to study the mysterious sinkhole.
An initial investigation pointed to coal deposits spontaneously combusting beneath the ground as the most likely cause of the phenomenon. This eventually led to the layer of the earth around the site to collapse.
"The air blasting out of the hole is so hot, that if you hold a branch near to it bursts into flames," geologist Hu Tan said.
Hu's colleague, mining expert Cao Jianwen, explained that the area where the village is located used to be a coal mine during the 1970s. Similar occurrences of sink holes were also reported in previous years.
"We have recorded a temperature of around 792 degrees Celsius (1,458 degrees Fahrenheit), which is pretty hot and I can understand that locals are superstitious," Cao said.
The Xinjiang Meitian Fire Engineering Bureau described the mining process the locals used to extract the coal from the mountain.
"Primitive mining and extinguishing techniques caused coal to burn deep under the ground," Chen Long, head of the engineering bureau said. "Operators didn't seal the mines properly after business discontinued and this leads the underground fire to burn towards the surface of the earth."
Once the cause of the phenomenon was established, local authorities decided seal the sink hole off to prevent residents and miners from inhaling the dangerous fumes. The villagers were also warned to be cautious if they spot another crater.
"I would not rule out that there could be similar sinkholes in this region in the future, and we should be contacted immediately if others are discovered so proper measures can be taken to either close of the hole or seal the area," Cao added.
Enjoyed reading this story? For more awesome news, reviews, features and analyses, subscribe to Tech Times newsletter. We value your privacy and we will never sell or distribute your email or personal data to third party advertisers.