2015-04~06
http://www.bignewsnetwork.com/index.php/sid/233507625

Refugees Land in Cambodia After Transfer From Australia
Our eNewspaper network was founded in 2002 to provide stand-alone digital news sites tailored for the most searched-for locations for news. With a traditional newspaper format, more than 100 sites were established each with a newspaper-type name to cover the highest-ranked regions, countries, cities and states. Each site operates independently providing around-the-clock local news coverage, global & business updates, RSS feeds, and news releases.
Established in 1999, each News.Net site specializes in local news, weather, international headlines, business and finance reports. The News.Net directory of sites covers every major region, country and city around the world, as well as U.S. states and industry sectors. Each independently-operated portal is networked throughout the social media spectrum and is administered by Mainstream Media EC on behalf of Big News Network.
The four--an Iranian couple, an Iranian man, and a Rohingya Muslim man from Myanmar--had previously sought asylum in Australia but were denied entry, being held instead for months in a camp for refugees unwelcome in the country.
They were granted asylum in Cambodia at the end of April in a move slammed by human rights groups and refugee NGOs who have argued that Cambodia's own rights record and poverty make the country unsuitable for permanent resettlement.
Landing in Phnom Penh on Thursday, the four were rushed from the airport under tight security and quickly moved to temporary quarters in Chbar Ampov, outside the capital, where Interior Ministry spokesperson Khieu Sopheak said the group will be supported at Australia's expense.
"Australia will pay even for the cost of guarding them," Khieu Sopheak told RFA's Khmer Service.
"We are responsible for only one thing--to transport them from [the airport] to their holding place," he said.
After first refusing to take part in the resettlement scheme, the four had volunteered to be moved after a letter from Australia's Immigration Ministry circulated in Nauru promising "villa-style accommodation" in Cambodia and large payments of cash for participants, said in a June 4 report.
The refugees "were then flown secretly from Nauru to Darwin, in Australia's Northern Territory" in early May and housed in a temporary facility near the airport, the paper said.
Rights groups have criticized the controversial deal in which Australia has promised to pay more than U.S. $40 million in costs and aid to Cambodia, noting also that Cambodia has forced asylum-seekers from China and Vietnam back home.
"Uyghur and Montagnard refugees have been rejected by Cambodia," Am Sam Art, an activist from the Cambodian rights groups Licadho, told RFA.
"So we can see that Cambodia considers foreign [financial] assistance to be more important than refugees' freedom," he said.
"Australia is throwing tens of millions of dollars at Cambodia to take these refugees," Phil Robertson, Deputy Director of the Asia Division of Human Rights Watch, agreed in a statement on Wednesday.
"Cambodia clearly has no will or capacity to integrate refugees permanently into Cambodian society," Robertson said.
"These four refugees are essentially human guinea pigs in an Australian experiment that ignores the fact that Cambodia has not integrated other refugees and has already sent Montagnards and Uighur asylum seekers back into harm's way in Vietnam and China."
Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036 
