2015-04~06
http://www.chinapost.com.tw/china/national-news/2015/05/28/437016/China-touts.htm

China touts success of Muslim area crackdown - The China Post
However, it was unclear what scale of terror organization is reflected in the tally, because authorities have given neither extensive details on the plots nor a clear definition of what they would include, and some analysts suggest small-scale or even nonviolent incidents might be on the list.
Xinjiang is largely closed to foreign journalists and substantial information about security in the region is difficult or impossible to collect and verify.
Touting the crackdown's success, state broadcaster CCTV on Wednesday showed paramilitary troops conducting drills featuring fleets of helicopters, simulated building assaults and heavy weapons including anti-tank guns and flamethrowers.
The report said 96 percent of the foiled plots were still in the planning stages. It said 112 suspects have turned themselves in, but no figures were given on those captured or killed by police. Some critics have raised concerns of summary executions in the crackdown.
Authorities also have targeted the distribution of video and audio recordings promoting extremism, along with outward signs of religious conservatism among the native Muslim Uighur (pronounced WEE-gur) population such as the wearing of long beards by men and veils by women. In addition, authorities have tightened controls on both legal and illegal border crossings into neighboring Central Asian states.
The crackdown was launched after a bomb attack last May 22 on a crowded market in Xinjiang's capital, Urumqi, in which 39 people were killed. That followed an extremely rare attack in Beijing in which five people were killed, including three attackers, when a Jeep mowed down pedestrians in front of iconic Tiananmen Gate.
A knife attack at a train station in the southern city of Kunming about a year ago claimed 29 lives, further marking a departure from the militants' previous targeting of government offices, police stations or other symbols of rule by the ethnic Han Chinese majority.