2015-04~06
http://www.koreaobserver.com/north-korea-south-china-sea-boat-people-and-more-29300/

North Korea, South China Sea, Boat People and more – The Korea Observer
What’s going on with North Korea? Is conflict unavoidable in the South China Sea? The plight of the boat people and more.
What the heck is going on with North Korea?; Is conflict unavoidable in the South China Sea, and the plight of the boat people. Plus stories from Thailand, South Korea, and more are coming up next.
In 2013, we saw Kim Jong-un create a worldwide sensation despite being the head of a small, 25 million strong society. In recent months, we’ve seen an uptick in activity: missile launches, threats against South Korea, top level culls, and once more, problems at the Kaesong Industrial Complex.
Joining me is Adam Cathcart, a historian focusing on Chinese and North Korean relations the University of Leeds. He’s also the co-editor of Sino-NK, a collective of young scholars focusing on Korean and Chinese sources.
You’ll be able to hear the entire conversation on our website and in the Asia Now podcast feed.
For the past year, there’s been a steady build-up of activity on China’s part inside its self-declared Nine Dash Line. There was the deployment of an oil rig inside Vietnam’s established Exclusive Economic Zone, the bullying of weaker ASEAN members, and of course, the unprecedented land reclamation efforts that have quadrupled in recent months. We may now be entering a new phase as tensions in the region increases.
Returning to the podcast is Jonathan Miller, Fellow on East Asia for the EastWest Institute to comment on what may be coming in the months to come. You’ll be able to hear the entire conversation as part of Asia Now here.
It started off with finding a mass grave in Thailand. Those exhumed were Rohingya muslims or Bangladeshi migrants. Since that grizzly discovery at the beginning of May, the situation has become a crisis for ASEAN member states. Host Steve Miller breaks down the latest.
If you’d like to hear that entire conversation with Phil Robertson that’s referenced in this story, it’s the April 18th episode of Asia Now.
More than one year has passed since Prayuth Chan-ocha staged a bloodless coup and assumed control of Thailand. While the former general has retired from the military, he’s still in charge and shows no sign of relinquishing control after putting in place a hand-picked national legislature and invoking the sweeping powers afforded to him under Article 44. Miller runs down the latest.
This week on The Asia Brief, as it begins its new format: South Korea become big brother by requiring minors to install monitoring applications on their smart phones, a visit to the Yasuki Shrine stirs trouble from China and South Korea, and Australia gets tough on ISIS supporters. Plus more news from China Xinjiang region, historians take issue with Prime Minister Abe, and Joshua Wong’s quest for democracy gets him banned from Malaysia.
If you enjoyed the podcast, please share it with your friends and if you haven’t subscribe. Subscribing is free and when you do, the next episode is delivered automatically to you. You can subscribe on our website, AsiaNewsWeekly.net, or in your favorite podcast application.
You’ll be able to keep up with news from the region by following Asia News Weekly on Facebook or Twitter and if you have comments, questions, or feedback, be sure to drop a line to podcast@asianewsweekly.net.
The Asia News Weekly podcasts brings you the biggest stories from the Asia-Pacific region.
The Korea Observer  | Newspaper Registration Number: Seoul A-02790 (서울, 아02790) | Business Registration Number: 117-81-83443 | Address: Deoksu Felice Suite No. 201, Nambusunhwanro-330, Yangcheon-gu, Seoul, South Korea. | Tel: 82-2-2698-4851 | Fax:0504-052-4851 | Publisher: Lee Tae-hoon | Email: editor@koreaobserver.com