2015-04~06
http://www.loonwatch.com/2015/06/ramadan-2015-china-bans-fasting-for-uighur-muslims/

Ramadan 2015: China 'bans fasting' for Uighur Muslims | loonwatch.com
Officials are forced to give verbal as well as written assurances “guaranteeing they have no faith, will not attend religious activities and will lead the way in not fasting over Ramadan,” state media reported.
In parts of the far western Xinjiang district, Chinese officials have banned Muslim party members, civil servants, students and teachers from fasting during the holy month of Ramadan.
“China is increasing its bans and monitoring as Ramadan approaches. The faith of the Uighurs has been highly politicised, and the increase in controls could cause sharp resistance,” Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the exiled group, the World Uighur Congress (WUC), said in a Reuters statement.
The Uighur leader saw this as China attempting to control their Islamic faith. He warned that the restrictions would force “the Uighur people to resist [Chinese rule] even further.”
Raxit, the Sweden-based spokesman for the WUC, told Radio Free Asia: “They are extracting guarantees from parents, promising that their children won’t fast on Ramadan.”
According to the Chinese government’s website, halal restaurants in Jinghe County, near the Kazakh border, were encouraged by food safety officials to stay open during day hours in Ramadan.
Chinese authorities have set restrictions on Uighur Muslims in the northwestern region of Xinjiang every Ramadan.
Officials are forced to give verbal as well as written assurances “guaranteeing they have no faith, will not attend religious activities and will lead the way in not fasting over Ramadan,” state media reported.
Muslim shops and restaurants have also been ordered to sell cigarettes and alcohol or be shut down.
If this Hammer is a declared “Christian”: “for all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword.” Matthew 26:52
Yeah of course you genocidal fiend.
I have not proved your point, only how obtuse and pigheaded guys of your ilk are.
To some try to explain that they are as inhuman as they smear us to be is like talking to a blind man about color. If I dont say “pretty please with sugar on it” to your insults and provcations, but place a mirror before youreyes so that you can see for yourself how inhuman you are, then I’m a “violent terrorist”.
Go to Hell, all of you. In truth you’re not even as much as the guy whose picture I showed you because you don’t have the guts to back up your threats with deeds. No, you don’t have the guts. Best thing I could do if I ever get to see you is spit in your face, but I don’t want to soil my spittle.
I agree with the policy, simply because all the child has to say is “I don’t want to eat’, in order not to violate the rules.
I would suppose that like all the Muslim Chinese children I went to school with, their parents stuffed them at breakfast time, and they were not hungry at lunch.
Statement attributed to Count Axel Gustafsson Oxenstierna, Chancellor of Sweden during the Thirty Years’ War: An nescis, mi fili, quantilla prudentia mundus regatur? – “Do you not know, my son, with how little wisdom the world is governed?”
That’s why I see that life is wasted on the living.
Have you forgotten doublethink? People can of course hold two views at the same time that are 180° opposed.
True. Former Chinese governments culd be just as brutal in enforcing theor laws and policies.
However, none, except since Chairman Mao and to this very day, has strived for stamping out or suppressing the cultures and national identities it doesn’t like. And that’s my objection to it. I’m not dissing the Chinese people nor culture.
To swome my reply to this fascist provocateur and anti-Muslim war propagandist and my statements to him may seem excesive,or just the response he wanted to provoke, s he can “prove” that Muslims are violent by nature.
However he cites the very same pretexts the Serbs use to justify their committing genocide against Bosniaks, from the moment the Ottomans no longer held power over them, that is, from 1804 on to this very day. And not only that, the same pretext the soo “peaceful” genocidal fascist Buddhist monks use against the Rohingya. Or the Hutu used against the Tutsi in Rwanda (and remember, both Hutu and Tutsi are for most Catholic). Or Catholics and Protestants in the Thirty Years’ War of 1618-1648.
There you all can see that religion has nothing to do with this, it’s only like a flag or a badge, nothing more. So Islam isn’t particularly more good or evil than the others.
Now Pope Francis – and I think he is one of the most peaceful and decent fellows around – said a while back that if someone insulted his faith it is as if that someone had insulted his mother, and that then he’d give him an appropriate response.
And so do I think too. Now, you don’t expect that my respose will be something like “pretty please with sugar on it” or “thank you so much for this constructive criticism”; now would you?
I think I’ll show you once more how I see such guys. I think it won’t take you all out there rocket science or a degree in philosophy to figure out whatthat meas about how I think they shoud be treated. Or do you want me to show you a picture of that as well? I have one ready. Wait a minute, I think I’ll upload it too.
What you say is all just genocidal, fascist, islamophobic blah blah blah.
 It’s exactly the same thing Karadzic and those f his ilk say about Bosniaks. And it has the same truth and crediblity, none at all. But it is nevertheless murderous talk that has led in the case of BiH to the destruction of a country, the violent death of 200,000 of its ihabitants and the disperion of one quarter of its population to allends of the Earth, and no, it was not the Muslims’ fault, their ony fault is being there. The Serbs attacked the Bosniaks, as they hd attacked the Crots previously and attacked the Kosovars afterwards, as the Russians attacked Ukraine, andNOT vice versa, as you fascist scum would have it.
Whatever the Ottoman Turks did way back in the 15th and the 19th centuries to the Serbs does not justify in any which ever way the genocide the Serbs commited against the Bosniaks in 1992-95. What the crusaders did in 1190 can never be justified with events that took place four centuries erlier, and what the Christian Spaniards did to the Spanish Muslims in 1492 can in no way be connected to events of seven centuries before.
How would you like it of I came and slapped your son’s face over something your grandfather, or a relative or a friend of your grandfather, allegedly did to my grandfather way back in 1945? Would you think that’s right?
 Yet you say that aggression against people because of their being Muslims can be justified “because their ancestors invaded the land”? To begin with, the Muslims didn’t invade any land. The local power and state structures collapsed, and someone more powerful moved in. Because geropolitics, like physics, doesn’t tolearte a vscuum. And a few centuries later, those Muslims had become autochthonous. Besides that, over half of the Spanish Muslims were Spanish-speaking, original inhabitants of the land, descended from Visigoths and Romanized Celto-Iberians. Just like the Bosniaks are not Turks, but Slavic speaking Muslims. What do you think, that just for bing Muslims they are “undesirables”? Free game? your booty? You monster!
Spain was as much the Spanish Muslims’ homeland as Bosnia-Herzegovina is the homeland of the Bosniaks and nobody has any right whatsoever to take it away from them.
If that s the way you think then I can only see you as a declared, deadly enemy of my people and any further discusion with you is pointless. You dirty coward, you say such things only from behind he anonomity of the www becuse ou know full wel if you talked so to y face you’d have no time to regret it.
You scum, you coward, you dirty, genocidal, fascist rat, dog, swine, how DARE you address me in this manner. Jebem ti majku. PICKA MATERINA, GET OUT, DAMN YOU; GET OUT; AND DON’T DARE EVER ADDRESS ME AGAIN. Just so you know, THE CROSS WILL NEVER CHASE THE CRESCENT OUT OF BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA. I Will contribute my part to see that. I’m keeping you rsnti-Muslim diatribe to read it to my children and grandchildren so they will never give themselves to ay ilusiona about what scum you are.
AND HERE IS A PHOTO OF WHAT YOU ARE AND AS WHAT I SEE YOU. Look at it and see your image you crusader scum.
“The Crusades, the Reconquista and the Thirty Years’ War were all about
conquest, looting and expansion of political influence spheres.”
Remind me again how it was that the Crusades got started? Wasn’t it the the long delayed response of Christendom for the Islamic conquest of Christian Jerusalem in 637 AD? Weren’t the Crusades the product of five hundred years of pent up rage on the part of European Christians, whose families were murdered, robbed or enslaved during pilgrimages to the Holy land and Jerusalem ruled by Muslims? Wasn’t it The Caliph Hakim who destroyed the Christians holiest site, the Church of the Holy Sepulcher, that was the last straw that finally triggered the First Crusade in 1096 AD?
And the Reconquista of Spain was the ousting of the Muslim invaders from Christian Spain was it not? Or are you telling us here that Spain was somehow ALWAYS a Muslim country and that the CHRISTIANS were the invaders with no claim to the land whatsoever?
I think the Crusades and the Reconquista were about more than simple barbarism and pillaging on Christian Europe’s part. The reality is that these were military campaigns to liberate formerly Christian territories from brutal Islamic rule. The timeline between the Muslim conquest of Jerusalem and the First Crusades is about five hundred years. This does NOT paint a picture of “blood thirsty” Christians eager to plunder and loot “innocent” Muslims of their land and wealth for “no good reason at all”. On the contrary, it paints a picture of anger slowly building over many centuries for the seemingly unending violence against Christians in the Holy Land and the desecration of Christianity’s holiest sites.
But of course, Muslims will NEVER admit to this version of events, they are ALWAYS the “innocent victims” of Christian violence. Muslims NEVER do ANYTHING wrong, it is ALWAYS the fault of someone else right?
Personally I think that not allowing a child to ‘fast’ is taking the policy a bit too far, but if fasting then becomes things like taking time out to pray in school, or public schools teaching children to recite scriptures, or taking days off to practice religious ritual I would be against that.
I don’t think that integration of religion in schools is dangerous, but I can see the point of the PRC not to open the door to one ritual because many rituals and religions would want their little piece and bring disharmony to the purpose of public school.
I grew up and live in Germany, where every religion with at least some influence has specialized religious courses, the rest gets “ethics”. Mainly that’s Catholic and Lutheran, but Jews have their own schools with religious lessons. The newest attempts are to get some form of Islam classes: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/07/world/europe/germany-adds-lessons-in-islam-to-better-blend-its-melting-pot.html?_r=0
It’s a bureaucratic approach the other way round: integrating religion into the curriculum as being part of a task of the individual federal states. Just look as contrast at France, which is laicistic, a member of the EU too.
Since most people I know aren’t religiously biased (in Universities the confessional rivalities are much starker than in schools, as students are learing a specialized theology, even in the sciences there’s a certain disdain for religious undertones), I think the integration of religion into schools isn’t that dangerous… I learned most about tolerance in direct dialogue with religious schoolmates and that’s one of the main reasons why I participate in this forum.
Algeria, BiH, Kosovo, it’s all the same. It’s about one people oppressing another, and teh other people strzggling to be free of oppression, harassment and acculturation.
I don’t see the political side of Islam as the problem. After all the Romans oppressed the Jews and Christians because they wouldn’t admit to the Roman emperor being a god; actually because thus they questioned Roman rule. The Crusades, the Reconquista and the Thirty Years’ War were all about conquest, looting and expansion of political influence spheres. Just a few corners away, the Tibetans – of whom only a scant minority are Muslims – are oppressed and harassed much in the same way, and for the same reasons: for being what they are and for being here. Even peaceful resistance is seen by the Chinese government as an act of rebellion punishable by death. So I see no reason why Muslims should be singled out as being especially politicized, and be repressed for it.
Do you think this is because islam has a political aspect?
Hit the nail in the head, especially the last paragraph. Thank you.
Sorry. I guess it’s just hard to tell when you are giving your own opinion and when you are speaking on behalf of the PRC.
What I think if particularly problematic for me (and no doubt others) is that fasting is not some overt or time-consuming ritual like spending time in prayer. (In fact, technically, I don’t think fasting is even a ritual, but let’s not quibble on language.) Not eating is something that anyone can do for a number of reasons without it being particularly clear what the reason is. It seems that if the teachers spot a “pattern that seems like fasting” a child is then sent home. It’s a true form of thought police: the activity is fine if it’s due to lack of appetite, but not for some personal religious belief.
I think I finally understand: the policy is not meant to encourage a non-disruptive learning environment, but rather to force students to think (not to behave, but to think) in a way in which meets government approval.
I do understand and I understood the first, second, and third time you said that too.
I EXPRESSLY acknowledged your point in a previous comment. Search “fair point” and I think you’ll find it.
We are not stupid. Most Loonwatchers are pretty smart and have solid reading comprehension. WE GET IT.
I completely understand Chinese policy on this particular matter, as you’ve explained it. I still find it objectionable NOT ON THE BASIS IT IS SINGLING OUT MUSLIMS, but on the basis it’s TYRANNICAL.