2015-04~06
http://www.cntraveler.com/stories/2015-06-08/maphead-ken-jennings-what-is-beijing-time-why-does-china-still-use-it

Maphead: Ken Jennings on 'Beijing Time' and Why China Still Uses It - Condé Nast Traveler
In this week's Maphead, Ken Jennings explains why China operates under one time zone, and how that affects the country today.
Last month, I almost missed an event in South Bend, Indiana that I was scheduled to speak at—because I was driving in from O'Hare and forgot to take the time change into account. Indiana, it turns out, is a confusing DMZ between Central and Eastern time, and South Bend is just ten miles east of the time change. "Why can't America just stick to a single time zone?," I fumed in my rental car. "How bad could that possibly be?" And then I remembered China.
China is the world's third largest country, stretching across most of the Asian continent. From the Pakistani border in the west all the way east to Manchuria, we're talking about 3,000 miles, wider than the contiguous United States. According to the world's conventional 15-degree time zones, which date back to the International Meridian Conference of 1884, China should be split across five different time zones. And for many years, it was.
In 1949, Chairman Mao Zedong was trying to consolidate control over a nation fragmented by decades of civil war. Many corners of China were still, for all intents and purpose, separate countries under the de facto control of regional governments. As one of his efforts to unify China, Mao placed the entire country under a single time zone: Beijing Time, he called it, after his capital city.
As a result of Mao's policy, one of the most sprawling nations on Earth has been observing a single clock for the past 65 years. But this leads to daily absurdities in China's far-flung western provinces, where the sun sets at midnight in the summer, and doesn't rise until 10 a.m. in the winter. A traveler crossing the Wakhjir Pass from Afghanistan would have to change his watch by three and a half hours in a single step! Things are so ridiculous in many parts of Xinjiang Province that the minority Uighur population just gives up and uses its own time, while China's majority Han people living there stick to the Beijing party line. It must be hard to bridge cultural differences when everyone is missing each other for lunch by two hours.
It's actually working right now. In 1983, the state of Alaska decided to link its four time zones (with the exception of the western Aleutians) under one clock, for simplicity's sake. Alaska's east-west span is nearly that of the lower 48, but things seem to be working all right under "Alaska Standard Time." There's evidence that greater time uniformity leads to gains in productivity (won't someone think of the Californians rolling into the office at 6:30 a.m. when East Coast markets open!) so some economists have suggested reducing America's time map to two zones, or even one. Trust me, you'd be happier the next time you had an appointment in Indiana.
Ken Jennings is a 74-time Jeopardy! champion and the bestselling author of seven books, including Maphead.
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (effective 1/2/14) and Privacy Policy (effective 1/2/14).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.