2015-04~06
http://www.arabianbusiness.com/china-steps-up-controls-in-unruly-xinjiang-as-ramadan-approaches-596417.html

China steps up controls in unruly Xinjiang as Ramadan approaches - ArabianBusiness.com
We can only send passwords to the e-mail address you're registered with. If you can not remember it, or have any other problem, please e-mail registration@arabianbusiness.com
Uighur Muslims attend Friday prayers inside the Yanhan Mosque in Urumqi northwest China's Xinjiang province. (Getty Images)
Some local governments in China's unruly far western region of Xinjiang are stepping up controls on the Islamic faith followed by the Uighur people ahead of Ramadan, including making officials swear they will not fast.
The holy month, which begins this week, is a sensitive time in Xinjiang following an uptick in deadly attacks blamed by Beijing on Islamist militants over the past three years in which hundreds have died.
In recent days, state media and government websites in Xinjiang have published stories and official notices demanding that party members, civil servants, students and teachers in particular do not to observe Ramadan, something that happened last year too.
In Jinghe county near the Kazakh border, food safety officials decided last week that they would "guide and encourage" halal restaurants to stay open as normal during Ramadan, the government said on its website.
Those that do stay open would get fewer visits from food safety inspectors, it added.
Muslims worldwide observe Ramadan, during which many abstain from eating and drinking during daylight hours.
In Maralbexi county, where 21 died in violent unrest in 2013, party officials had to give verbal as well as written assurances "guaranteeing they have no faith, will not attend religious activities and will lead the way in not fasting over Ramadan", state media said.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive policies in Xinjiang, including restrictions on religious practices, have provoked unrest, allegations denied by Beijing.
"China is increasing its bans and monitoring as Ramadan approaches. The faith of the Uighurs has been highly politicised, and the increase in controls could cause sharp resistance," Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the exiled Uighur group, the World Uyghur Congress, said in a statement.
Telephone calls to the Xinjiang government's spokesman seeking comment were not answered.
The government there has always denied trying to curb fasting, though officials and people younger than 18 are banned from participating in religious activities.
On Sunday, Xinjiang's Communist Party chief, Zhang Chunxian, warned that the region's stability faced "sustained pressure" from religious extremists.
China's Communist Party says it protects freedom of religion, but it maintains a tight grip on religious activities and allows only officially recognised religious institutions to operate.
China has around 20 million Muslims spread throughout the country, only a portion of which are Uighur, a Turkic-language speaking group that calls Xinjiang home.

Disclaimer:The view expressed here by our readers are not necessarily shared by Arabian Business, its employees, sponsors or its advertisers.

FUN DXB Vol II event, a recently held second gathering of entrepreneurs...


The recent spate of building fires in the UAE, including New...


this not new about Huda and we do see how far n big she's going... amazing person inside & out and it all reflects on her business!! more


What an inconsequential report, what does this have to anything on how the GCC region is currently struggling?? Credit cards and the likes have always... more


It is worth noting that whilst The Address and associated brands are successful within Dubai, plans to expand / create a management company never happened... more


this not new about Huda and we do see how far n big she's going... amazing person inside & out and it all reflects on her business!! more


If I am not wrong it was the Islamic Banking arm of Emirates NBD who illegally cashed my friend Allan Paris's security cheque landing him in Jail. Please... more


I just cannot understand why all this incessant whining, yeah this is life and the standard of living is too expensive and will become far more expensive... more


Well said Okay. This fact is always lost on my local friends who can't seem to understand how income tax on salaries of expats would be any different than... more


this not new about Huda and we do see how far n big she's going... amazing person inside & out and it all reflects on her business!! more


If I am not wrong it was the Islamic Banking arm of Emirates NBD who illegally cashed my friend Allan Paris's security cheque landing him in Jail. Please... more
