2015-04~06
http://www.businessinsider.com.au/the-china-pakistan-relationship-is-about-to-get-46-billion-stronger-2015-4

The China-Pakistan relationship is about to get $46 billion stronger | Business Insider
Chinese President Xi Jinpingwill launch energy and infrastructure projects worth $US46 billion on a visit toPakistannext week asChinacements links with its old ally and generates opportunities for firms hit by slack growth at home.
Also being finalised is a long-discussed plan to sell Pakistan eight Chinese submarines. The deal, worth between $US4 billion and $US5 billion, according to media reports, may be among those signed on the trip.
Xi will visit next Monday and Tuesday, Pakistan’s foreign ministry said.
Commercial and defence ties are drawing together the two countries, which share a remote border and long-standing mistrust of their increasingly powerful neighbour, India, and many Western nations.
“China treats us as a friend, an ally, a partner and above all an equal – not how the Americans and others do,” said Mushahid Hussain Sayed, chairman of the Pakistan parliament’s defence committee.
Pakistan and China often boast of being “iron brothers” and two-way trade grew to $US10 billion last year from $US4 billion in 2007, Pakistani data shows.
Xi’s trip is expected to focus on a Pakistan-China Economic Corridor, a planned $US46-billion network of roads, railways and energy projects linking Pakistan’s deepwater Gwadar port on the Arabian Sea with China’s far-western Xinjiang region.
It would shorten the route for China’s energy imports, bypassing the Straits of Malacca between Malaysia and Indonesia, a bottleneck at risk of blockade in wartime.
If the submarine deal is signed, China may also offer Pakistan concessions on building a refuelling and mechanical station in Gwadar, a defence analyst said.
China’s own submarines could use the station to extend their range in the Indian Ocean.
“China is thinking in terms of a maritime silk road now, something to connect the Indian Ocean and Pacific Ocean,” said a Pakistani defence official, who declined to be identified.
For Pakistan, the corridor is a cheap way to develop its violence-plagued and poverty-stricken Baluchistan province, home to Gwadar.
China has promised to invest about $US34 billion in energy projects and nearly $US12 billion in infrastructure.
Xi is also likely to raise fears that Muslim separatists from Xinjiang are linking up with Pakistani militants, and he could also push for closer efforts for a more stable Afghanistan.
“One of China’s top priorities on this trip will be to discuss Xinjiang,” said a Western diplomat in Beijing. “China is very worried about the security situation there.”
(Additional reporting by Ben Blanchard in Beijing; Editing by Robert Birsel and Clarence Fernandez)
This article originally appeared at Reuters. Copyright 2015. Follow Reuters on Twitter.
This is how Netflix is fixing the biggest problem with TVs
REPORT: China's central bank emailed the Fed for advice on how to stop its stock market from crashing
It's beginning to look a lot like 2014 for China's stock market frenzy
Companies may soon stop reporting quarterly for 1 big reason
LIVE NOW: Our Live Blog Of Apple's March Keynote Event
Harry Potter Recut By The Way Of The Force Awakens Is Perfection
Marvel Heroes Is A Great Place To Work Out Your Post-Daredevil Season Two Frustrations
Sydney Trains Just Killed Off Opal Card's Free Travel Hack
A Standing Desk Makes Me More Productive, Even If It Isn't 'Healthier'
This Hair Hack Is the Secret to a Perfectly Taut Ponytail
Wedding Music Ideas: 40 Songs For Your Walk Down the Aisle
The Best Diet For Weight Loss, According to Harvard Studies