2015-04~06
http://www.foreignpolicyjournal.com/2015/06/29/the-young-turks-can-isis-be-defeated-by-bombing-the-middle-east-and-north-africa/

The Young Turks: Can ISIS Be Defeated by Bombing the Middle East and North Africa? | Foreign Policy Journal
In just 24 hours over 200 people are dead because of four terrorist attacks spread throughout Europe and Africa.
The Young Turks Network — In just 24 hours over 200 people are dead because of four terrorist attacks spread throughout Europe and Africa. The Young Turks John Iadarola, Ana Kasparian, and Cenk Uygur provide commentary on the tragedy in this video. “It is ISIS attacking in all different parts of the world…they were definitely coordinated, they were definitely meant to send a message, “ Uygur said. “I know that ISIS did state that they did wanted to ramp up the violence against non-Muslims and non-extremists ahead of Ramadan,” Kasparian added.
“I’m very skeptical about the so-called progress we’re making against ISIS in Iraq and Syria,” Uygur said. While Uygur acknowledged that there are some improvements, it’s scary that ISIS can communicate with one another and put bombers in different places and succeed in terrorizing people.
“What can we do in reality?” Uygur asked in response to the question of how these attacks should be addressed. Sending bombs is counter-productive Uygur pointed out, “…the kid sitting in Kobani trying to decide which side he’s on, might go and say ‘John McCain’s bomb just killed my cousin, I might go with ISIS’.” This is in reference to McCain’s complaint that most of the weaponry is not used. Uygur calls for a more ‘moral’ and  ‘smarter’ application of tools and strategies because the attitude of, “…they bomb, we bomb…is not really helping the situation.”

Comments are encouraged, but please respect the rules. Click here for terms of use.
Vote for Bernie! Focus on things inside our borders such as education, infrastructure, jobs, and income inequality. We can fully support Saudi Arabia to clean-up their own neighborhood from here.
Get an antidote to the mainstream media by signing up to receive a FREE weekly digest of the latest from Foreign Policy Journal.

Log in - 
 Powered by WordPress - 
 Designed by Gabfire Themes


Get an antidote by signing up to receive a FREE weekly email digest of the latest from FPJ.