2015-04~06
http://uatoday.tv/opinion/hybrid-war-nothing-new-425286.html

'Hybrid War': Nothing New - read on - uatoday.tv

 Ukraine Today Opinion: Japan historian, author of the book "Freedom and Terror in the Donbas" Hiroaki Kuromiya

Moscow categorically denies the existence of its military forces in eastern Ukraine. Likewise, when it annexed Crimea more than a year ago, Moscow only acknowledged later that "of course" it had deployed its forces in occupying the peninsula.
In his camouflage operations, President Putin has been following rule books from the Stalin era. Anyone familiar with the former Soviet dictator's methods of deception and disinformation will not be surprised by recent actions by Putin. The "hybrid war" Putin is said to have invented, a new form of twenty-first century warfare, is in fact not new at all.
In 1929, for example, Moscow secretly sent air and land forces to Afghanistan in an attempt to remove the new government that had toppled the pro-Moscow King Amanullah Khan. Several thousand Red Army soldiers disguised in Afghan uniforms and assigned false Asian-sounding names joined the Amanullah forces. In the course of the war, however, the King abandoned his efforts to return to power and fled abroad. This situation made the presence of Soviet forces politically awkward. Fearing that its secret military intervention would become known to the outside world, Moscow withdrew.
In 1932–1933 Moscow sent air and land forces into the Mongolian People's Republic ("Outer Mongolia"), a nominally independent state which was in fact the first Soviet satellite state. Moscow's aim was to crush the very popular rebellions against the Mongolian government which was attempting to follow the same radical Communist path Stalin had pursued in the Soviet Union. Stalin's camouflage appears less sophisticated in Mongolia where few foreigners (apart from Soviet controllers) lived: Moscow allowed no other country to recognize the Mongolian People's Republic in order to prevent foreigners (even diplomats) from witnessing the Soviet control of the country. The combined Soviet-Mongolian forces ultimately crushed the mass rebellions. Moscow denounced the popular rebellions as incited by Japanese imperialism, a deliberate attempt at disinformation.
In 1933–1934, Moscow intervened militarily in another foreign land, this time in Xinjiang or Chinese Turkestan where Muslim Uyghurs and others had been staging mass rebellions against the Han Chinese control of their land. On the one hand, the Soviet secret police and the Moscow-based Communist International welcomed the rebellions as a national-liberation movement against imperialist China. On the other hand, the Soviet dictator Stalin rebuffed them and supported the Chinese government, clandestinely dispatching to Xinjiang Soviet military forces (composed of Soviet Central Asians disguised in Chinese uniform). Remarkably these Soviet forces fought alongside anti-Soviet Russian forces in exile in Xinjiang against the rebels. This secret operation led to the permanent yet secret presence of Soviet military and special forces in Xinjiang. When Xinjiang Muslims rebelled again in 1937, Moscow again sent additional military forces clandestinely and crushed them. Moscow claimed that these rebellions were incited by Japanese imperialists. Although Japan did exercise certain influence among the Xinjiang rebels, the vast distance from Japan and Manchuria (where Japan had earlier founded a puppet government) to Xinjiang made it impossible for Xinjiang rebels to receive any material assistance from Japan. Using military forces clandestinely and spreading overwhelming anti-Japanese propaganda, Moscow made sure to eliminate even the remotest possibility of Japanese presence in the Soviet-Chinese borderland.
The "hybrid war" Moscow is carrying out in eastern Ukraine is in fact not new at all. There are historical precedents.
These incidents of secret border actions taken by Moscow as discussed above are likely merely the tip of the iceberg. There is now mounting evidence that both the battle of Lake Khasan in 1938 fought in the Soviet-Chinese-Korean borderland between Soviet and Japanese forces and the battle of Khalkhin Gol in 1939 fought in the Mongol-Manchu borderland between Soviet-Mongol and Japanese forces were deliberately provoked by Moscow. (By 1938 Moscow had openly stationed military forces in Mongolia.) Moscow then blamed Japan for provocation, and the world accepted it. It is still the version accepted by almost all history books.
There is much we simply don't know about the history of Moscow's secret actions in its borderlands. For example, Moscow has historically been suspected of secretly distributing passports to foreign citizens living on the other side of the Soviet borders for the purpose of political subversion. One suspects that Moscow used the same tactic in Crimea and eastern Ukraine before staging military actions in these regions.
In the 1930s Stalin was very successful in pitting one imperial power against another. Facing the growing threat of Imperialist Japan, the world was willing to accept Moscow's propaganda that successfully kept hidden its secret operations in its Asian borderlands. Moscow was far more cautious in its European borderlands. By 1939, however, Moscow no longer cared about hiding its intentions even in Europe, invading Poland and Finland. Moscow went on to annex the Baltic states and Bessarabia. Shortly thereafter, during World War Two, Moscow quietly annexed another nominally independent small country, Tuva, situated between Russia and Mongolia. This last case in Asia attracted little attention from the world.
Today, unlike the 1930s and World War Two, there are no great powers (with the possible exception of China) willing to accept Moscow's propaganda. Stuck in an anachronistic world of its own imagination, Moscow tries hard to control mass media. Yet today's world is much more open than the world in which Stalin lived. Stalin didn't have to give press conferences or answer awkward questions posed by inquisitive journalists. President Putin has no choice but to speak to reporters and with a straight face to declare that Moscow has sent no military forces to eastern Ukraine.