2015-04~06
http://www.worldbulletin.net/turkey/161471/turkey-expresses-ramadan-ban-concerns-to-china-embassy

Turkey expresses 'Ramadan ban' concerns to China embassy | General | Worldbulletin News
Turkey's Foreign Ministry has expressed "deep concern" to China about reports that Beijing has instilled a fasting ban on segments of its Uighur Muslim population.
In a statement released Tuesday, the ministry said that it had informed the Chinese ambassador in Ankara of its worries.
"It has been publicly heard with sorrow that there are reports of the fasting and fulfilling of religious duties by Uighur Turks being banned," the statement said.
The statement offered no explanation as to what it wanted China to do about the reported ban.
Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu later told reporters that Turkey closely followed the Uighur issue. 
"They are important to us, we declare our connection with them in every occasion. We also let the Chinese officials know that it is very natural for us to react against a human rights violation there when it happens," he said. 
U.N. human rights investigators have criticised China's reported crackdown, citing "disturbing stories" of harassment and intimidation against the ethnic minority.
"This issue needs to be handled bilaterally and internationally. We will also bring this issue before the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees and other international organizations," Cavusoglu said Tuesday.
He added that President Recep Tayyip Erdogan would visit China, but the date is still to be arranged.
The "concern" expressed Tuesday is reflective of the sentiment that many Turks have with regard to the Uighur issue.
A photo posted June 28 to a Facebook account named "Dogu Turkistan İcin" (For East Turkestan) shows a group of Turkish nationalists gathered outside a Chinese restaurant in Istanbul daubed with graffiti.
A caption underneath reads "Today, Grey wolves [Turkish nationalists] who took to the streets in Istanbul for East Turkestan, scattered a Chinese Restaurant and painted the restaurant sky blue."
Sympathisers have called for Marches July 4 and 5 in Istanbul to protest China's alleged religious restrictions.
Many Turks refer to China’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region - the home to many ethnic minority groups, including the Turkic Uighur people - as East Turkestan.
They believe that Uighur are among a number of Turkic tribes that inhabit the region, and consider it to be part of Central Asia, not China.
'As long as our nation keeps strong our unity, togetherness and solidarity, [we can prevail over terrorism],' Turkish president says
Turkish dailies on Monday reported the identity of the suicide bomber who blew himself up on Istanbul's Istiklal Street
At least 164 people have been held over unauthorised Nevruz demonstrations on Sunday in Istanbul
Turkish president expresses his sorrow over deaths of Israeli and Iranian citizens in Saturday's Istanbul suicide attack
Turkish president says Assad committed state terrorism and must be tried at the International Criminal Court
Turkish president also accuses European Union of being insincere in Turkey's accession process
Turkish FM also calls Belgium counterpart to convey Turkey’s objections to allowing PKK supporters pitch tents in Brussels near EU-Turkey summit venue
Turkish president also slams Belgian government for allowing PKK supporters in Brussels to pitch tents near EU-Turkey summit
Ankara public prosecutor asks Justice Ministry to request Interpol red notice for 47 PKK terrorists, including senior figures
'The attacker has been formally identified' as an ISIL member
Reports suggest ISIL extremists are suspected of being behind the latest attack which targeted Istiklal Caddesi
Victims of the attack are memorialized with carnations; defiant signs go up saying, 'We are not afraid'
Turkish ambassador to the US Serdar Kilic accepts the award on behalf of the Turkish government and people
NATO and EU states also express solidarity with Turkey in aftermath of attack on Istiklal Street
Of the 36 people injured in this mornings suicide bomb in Istiklal Street, 12 of them have been established to be foreigners.
Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu's remarks come during joint press conference with his Iranian counterpart Zarif in Istanbul
Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

Biden says 'watching Iran like a hawk' on nuclear deal

UN sees need for space travel rules within 5 years

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar
