2015-04~06
http://tribune.com.pk/story/908866/at-least-18-dead-in-attack-in-chinas-xinjiang/

At least 18 dead in attack in China's Xinjiang - The Express Tribune

Policemen in riot gear guard a checkpoint on a road near a courthouse where ethnic Uighur academic Ilham Tohti's trial is taking place. PHOTO: REUTERS

XINJIANG: At least 18 people are dead after ethnic Uighurs attacked police with knives and bombs at a traffic checkpoint in China’s western Xinjiang region, Radio Free Asia reported on Wednesday.
The attack occurred on Monday in a district of the southern city of Kashgar, where tensions between Muslim Uighurs that call the region home and the majority Han Chinese have led to bloodshed in recent years.
Read: Fifteen killed in “terrorist attack” in China’s Xinjiang: state media
Suspects killed several police officers with knives and bombs after speeding through a traffic checkpoint in a car in Kashgar’s Tahtakoruk district, US-based Radio Free Asia said, citing Turghun Memet, an officer at a nearby police station.
Armed police responded to the attack and killed 15 suspects “designated as terrorists,” Radio Free Asia cited Memet as saying.
The attack comes at the beginning of the Muslim holy month of Ramazan, a sensitive time in Xinjiang after an uptick in attacks over the past three years in which hundreds have died, blamed by Beijing on militants.
Repeated calls to the Xinjiang government news office were not answered. Such incidents are frequently reported in overseas media but not confirmed by the Chinese government until days later, if ever.
Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say repressive government policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam in the region and on Uighur culture, have provoked unrest, a claim that Beijing denies.
UN Asoke Mukherjee last month had said Lakhvi’s release by Pakistan was in violation of the UN Resolution 1267
Google Maps tells user to travel an extra 5,000 kilometres if they want to go from Naya Nangal to Lahore
Mayoon village in Ghizer Valley is virtually inaccessible, compounding miseries on locals

Did someone (Muk Lee) say just yesterday that China is going to pay heavy price for siding with Pakistan and protecting Lekhvi?
http://tribune.com.pk/story/908352/china-blocks-indias-move-seeking-un-action-against-pakistan-on-lakhvis-release/Recommend

This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, redistributed or derived from.
Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2016 The Express Tribune.
Technical feedback? [email protected]
