2015-04~06
http://www.independent.ie/world-news/ethnic-uighur-man-shot-by-police-31308797.html

Ethnic Uighur man shot by police - Independent.ie

Chinese police have shot an ethnic Uighur man dead after he tried to attack travellers at a train station with a cement block.

Officials in the northern city of Xi'an said a police officer repeatedly warned the man before shooting him as he attacked travellers buying tickets at the city's main station.
A message on the force's microblog said the man died in hospital from his injuries and that normal order has been restored.
Ethnic tensions between the Muslim Uighur minority and China's Han majority have periodically erupted into violence in recent years, leaving hundreds dead.
Last year, a group of Uighurs armed with knives killed 31 people at a train station in the south-western city of Kunming.
Elephants have killed five people in two separate attacks in eastern India, an official said.
The Supreme Court has agreed to referee a pricey patent dispute between Samsung and Apple.
A fiercely-criticised police investigation into claims of a VIP paedophile ring has been dropped.

'It had all the attributes of 'a win, is a win, is a win''

Several bomb attacks have thrown the spotlight on security in Turkey. Here...

Whatever the cause, our careers often affect our personal relationships.

Elephants have killed five people in two separate attacks in...

The Supreme Court has agreed to referee a pricey patent dispute between Samsung and Apple.

A court in Poland has refused to drop the case against two...

The 13 exchange students killed in a bus crash in north-eastern...

Debris found earlier this month off the southeast African coast which some believe could be from a...

An aviation official has said it will be very difficult to extract...

An elephant has killed a man in West Bengal, India. The incident captured on a smartphone...

Footage released by ESA shows astronauts Tim Peake and Scott Kelly zapping aliens as part of...

President Obama becomes the first US commander in chief to visit Cuba in 88 years.

A heartbreaking video has gone viral on Facebook, of a mother...

At least 14 university students have been killed when the...

A young protester was attacked during Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump's...

Tens of thousands have gathered at a Buddhist temple in...

Four have been killed and 20 injured in a suicide bombing in...