2015-04~06
http://bernews.com/2015/05/documentary-screen-weekend-film-series/

Uyghur Documentary To Feature At Film Series - Bernews.com : Bernews.com
A documentary that features one of the Uyghurs that was relocated to Bermuda after being released from Guantanamo Bay will screen at the Weekend Film Series on Sunday May 17.
Screening at 5.15pm, Uyghurs: Prisoners of the Absurd tells the stories of three of the 22 Uyghurs who were turned over to the United States military and held at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
In July 2009 four men — Khalil Mamut, Abdulla Abdulqadir, Salahidin Abdulahat, Ablikim Turahun — were released from the US detention centre at Guantanamo and resettled in Bermuda.
In 2013, lawyer Richard Horseman wrote to then-Premier Craig Cannonier suggesting that the Bermuda Government pass legislation that will grant the Uighurs, their spouses and children Bermuda status.
Mr Horseman said that the men “remain in limbo” and the “authors of their misfortune have now vanished into thin air. The men are left to fend for themselves. Premier, the time has now come to right this wrong.”
Following that letter, Governor George Fergusson said the position of the four men is one “which the British Government is keen to see resolved satisfactorily for all concerned” and discussions about the matter will continue.”
In January 2014, the U.S. transferred the final three Uyghur captives from Guantanamo Bay, with the three men all sent to Slovakia. According to the American Civil Liberties Union, 122 prisoners remain in Guantanamo Bay.
Bermuda resident Uyghur Khalil Mamut features prominently in the documentary, telling of his capture, his imprisonment and his ultimate re-location to Bermuda in 2009. U.S. special envoy Daniel Fried recounts how the agreement for Bermuda to take four Uyghurs came to fruition.
In addition, Antarctic Edge: 70° South will be shown at 3pm, with the film showcasing a team of world-class scientists as they explore the fastest warming place on earth: the West Antarctic Peninsula.
Filmed in one of the most perilous environments on the planet, Antarctic Edge chronicles the stunning landscapes and seascapes of Earth’s southern polar region, revealing the harsh conditions and huge challenges that scientists endure for months at a time.
While navigating through 60-foot waves and dangerous icebergs, the film follows the team as they make land on rugged, inhospitable Charcot Island to study the rapidly declining Adelie Penguin.
For the scientists, these birds are the greatest indicator of climate change and a harbinger of what is to come.
Tickets are on sale now at the Oceans Gift Shop, BUEI, or by calling 294-0204. The Weekend Film Series, sponsored by Gosling’s, is a joint production of Bermuda Documentary Film Festival director Duncan Hall and the BUEI.
Not meaning to come off, "inconsiderate or cold" yet I do believe these four individuals, (plus families) weren't our problem and in reality, shouldn't still be "a thorn in the side" of the Bermudas Government, especially when we have born Bermudians homeless This is a matter that is long over-due and must be dealt with as soon as possible. I personally believe it is an American issue and the President should allow them residency in his country...
Raymond - I do not think there was a money back guarantee or any refund clauses when Bermuda (Yes Bermuda, your Premier made the deal on behalf of Bermuda, which is a right he possessed due to his position) made the deal with the United States and received compensation for having them settled here. This makes it a very much Bermuda Government issue that they transacted to and this is exactly where the 'buck' should stop.
Bermuda made the deal, now they should live up to it. If contracts entered into by Bermuda's Premier cannot be honored, I am sure we can all foresee the impact on Bermuda's credibility within International Relations this will have.
That was "a deal done under the cloak of darkness" Yes, unbeknownst to the people of the Island...We are a British Island / Colony and England still has the last say. Therefore they must, "step-up-to-the-mic" a.s.a.p. and solve this issue...
Sorry but EFB did not have the authority to negotiate with the US government and strike any deal, let alone the one he did.
Unfortunately, as unconstutional as it was, Bermuda is stuck with it. And the four Uighers are stuck with it as well.
If my memory serves me correct, did we take in some Vietnamese people some time ago too?
Mockingjay, not sure what that has to do with the question. Whether or not we took in some refuges is a very different question from whether or not our former Premier had the authority to negotiate with a foreign government. He did not.
No, Bermuda brought them (thankfully that is) ... if Bermuda is not willing to take further responsibility to see this to the end (as initially promised) so that this chapter can be closed, that is a different story, but do not delude or lie to yourself. Bermuda was compensated and Bermuda brought & 'bought' them.
Bermuda is not the party that made the deal. That was a former Premier who had no authority to deal with the US government. None whatsoever.
I certainly hope the man of the moment is mentioned in this film. You know, the man who made this humanitarian gesture, for absoluetly no personal gain (trying best to contain my laughter). The man who's name of course cannot be mentioned.
@ Jeremy: It shouldn't as long as we bare the burden of housing, employing the four Uyghurs plus their families. Dr Ewart Brown must do, "the right things" for his country men / women who are home /jobless...Okay, I maybe asking too much
This modern form of slavery......buying and selling of human beings or human chattell ....some say human cattle is no different from what happened on the slave blocks of Africa.There was a Slave Trader and a Slave Traitor.One can not exist without the other.Life is just like that in 2015..Ho Hum just the players change......You figure it out and get back to me .....with the Players..!
One day the truth will be told about this issue and that is all a ruse cooked up by both the Americans and the British who were well aware of the agreement made by former premier Browne and the Americans to take in these four Uyghurs. The British were concern about one issue and one one issue alone and that was it's trading relations with China. Not long after the four Uyghurs were brought to Bermuda and the British fain their disapproval; a large British trade mission embark on a visit to China led by the British prime minister. Therefore it could not be seen that a British Overseas territory would take in members of a people who just like the people of Tibet are under Chinese Han rule having their country over run. In fact both the British and the Americans acted together in bringing so-called enemy combatants out of conflict areas which for the most part ended up in Guantanamo Bay. So do you really think that the British did not know what the Americans had asked Bermuda to do with regard to the four Uyghurs?
So how many children do these men have now that we, the tax- payers , have to educate? Do these men have jobs and do they have a roof over their heads as many of our Bermudians do not !
Alvin Williams.....thank you for being honest and providing to the Public the reasl players that I asked for........America......Bermuda .......and Great Britian....all in the plan together...........and Ewart Browne taking the heat off all of their behinds......everybody knows it.Now go figure .....no money exchanges....?????? .....no palm greasing..........??????? Wake up Bermuda...!