2015-04~06
http://www.gulfbase.com/news/pakistan-s-1b-global-bond-plan-gets-thumbs-up/279999

Pakistan’s $1b global bond plan gets thumbs up |

 Investors are giving Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif a vote of confidence after he announced policies to spur economic growth and plans to sell $1 billion of bonds.

A new offering would lift foreign-exchange reserves as internal finances are bolstered by sales of state assets and higher capital gains taxes. The nation’s first global sukuk since 2005 was five times oversubscribed last year.

The yield on the $1 billion of junk rated notes due in 2019 fell 101 basis points this year to 6.19 per cent, almost twice as fast as the decline on similar-maturity securities for Indonesia.

Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service lifted their credit outlooks on Pakistan’s debt to positive from stable this year.

“The government looks serious in turning around the economy,” said Samia Aslam, a fund manager who helps oversee 21 billion rupees ($206 million) at HBL Asset Management in Karachi.”Some improvements are being shown.This is a sign of hope for the country and singles it out from other emerging markets.”

Top Performer

Pakistan’s 6.75 per cent dollar sukuk yield fell to a four- month low of 5.69 per cent in April, data compiled by Bloomberg show.

The debt returned 6.9 per cent in 2015 compared with 0.9 per cent for the Bloomberg USD Emerging Market Sovereign Bond Index.

The South Asian nation is courting investment from China and privatizing state assets to revive an economy hit by chronic power failures as Sharif targets 5.5 growth in the year starting July, the fastest pace in nine years.

China will join the country in spending $45 billion to build an economic corridor stretching 3,000 kilometers (1,850 miles) from the western Xinjiang region to the Chinese-funded Gwadar port on the Arabian Sea in Pakistan.

Chinese companies will invest $22.5 billion in coal-fired, hydro, wind and solar energy projects.

“Infrastructure is improving in Pakistan, which will help the overall economy,” said Faraz Younus Bandukda, chief executive officer at Fortune Islamic Services (Pvt) Ltd., a Shariah-compliant brokerage in Karachi.”Everything is going in a positive direction.”

Pakistan’s sukuk yields are falling faster this year than those on Islamic bonds of Indonesia and Malaysia.

The yield on Indonesia’s notes due 2019 declined 51 basis points to 2.84 per cent and Malaysia’s 2021 yield dropped two basis points to 2.86 per cent.

S&P rates Pakistan as B-, five levels below Indonesia’s BB+.Malaysia is ranked investment grade at A-. The government will raise 50 billion rupees from the privatizations, helping trim the budget deficit to 4.3 per cent of gross domestic product in the year starting July, the smallest since the 12 months that began in 2007.

Pakistan is making “significant progress” in meeting the IMF’s economic targets under a $6.6 billion loan programme and the next tranche of $506 million may be released by mid-June, mission chief to the country Harald Finger said in May.




 GCC could become the world's sixth largest economy by 2030: EY
 According to EY’s latest Growth Drivers report ‘Strength in unity’, if the GCC were to become one single market instead of six separate ones today, it would be the ninth largest economy in the world 



 Bank Muscat announces conversion of CCB’s to common equity shares
 Bank Muscat has informed the market that compulsorily convertible bonds (CCBs) issued in 2013 will be converted into common equity shares of the Bank on 20th March 2016 as per the terms of the prospe



 Akanar Partners becomes part of Arqaam Capital’s inv. banking division
 Arqaam Capital, the specialist emerging markets investment bank, today announced the successful merger of Akanar Partners, a dedicated corporate finance and M&A advisory firm headquartered in Cairo, 



 Al Khaliji extends contract financing
 Al Khalij Commercial Bank (al khaliji) successfully closed a facility to finance the joint venture between Midmac Contracting, Porr Qatar Construction and Six Construct Qatar for the ‘Al Wakrah Stadi



 ADCB launches an new initiative in partnership with Emirate Foundation
 Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank (ADCB) and Emirates Foundation, the UAE national foundation established to facilitate public-private partnerships for empowering youth, announced today a ground-breaking col
