2015-04~06
http://www.asianewsnet.net/news-77087.html

Asia News Network - Xchange Tool
HONG KONG (China Daily/ANN) - E-commerce giant sees 6 trillion yuan in trading volume by 2020, CEO says
TAIPEI (The China Post/ANN) - Two Taiwanese fishing boats claimed to have been fired upon by an Indonesian government vessel while operating in the Strait of Malacca early on Monday. Taiwan’s representatives in Jakarta are confirming the involvement of an Indonesian state vessel, noting that the area was known to be rampant with piracy.
TAIPEI (The China Post/ANN) - President-elect Tsai Ing-wen is mulling to convene a national industry development summit on request of business leaders in Taiwan on Monday.
SHENZHEN/HONG KONG, China (The Nation/ANN) - Linking hardware startups with sources in China.
PALU, Indonesia (The Jakarta Post/ANN) - Indonesian Military (TNI) commander General Gatot Nurmantyo on Monday pledged to continue the hunt for the country’s most-wanted suspected terrorist, Santoso, despite the deaths of 13 soldiers in a helicopter crash in Poso regency, Central Sulawesi.
JAKARTA (The Jakarta Post/ANN) - Indonesian courier companies on Monday expressed their optimism over the future of their business amid the ASEAN single market, citing a number of barriers to entry that will temporarily stop overseas companies from entering the country’s logistics industry.
TOKYO (The Japan News/ANN) - PM Abe wants West aware of China’s moves, North’s nukes.
TOKYO (The Japan News/ANN) - As few as 10 per cent domestic companies aim to achieve the government target to raise the percentage of female employees to managerial positions.
BANGKOK (The Nation/ANN) - Environmentalists are concerned deliberately lit fires in the Kaeng Krachan National Park could damage the forest ecology and disrupt plans for the park to be declared a World Heritage site.
BANGKOK (The Nation/ANN) - The lack of a major maintenance programme led to a breakdown of Bangkok’s Airport Rail Link yesterday morning, with six passengers injured following a sudden power blackout that left an operating train idle in the middle of its track, according to a former deputy Bangkok governor familiar with mass transit systems.