2015-04~06
http://www.australiannews.net/index.php/sid/232119753

Australian News - China's Xi Gets Warm Welcome in Islamabad

A 21-gun salute and schoolchildren singing anthems praising Pakistan's friendship with China began a day of red carpet treatments for the Chinese leader.

President Xi Jinping arrived in Islamabad accompanied by his wife, senior ministers and CEOs of Chinese companies. He met with Pakistan's top civilian and military leadership.

"Today we have decided to elevate our relationship to all weather strategic cooperative partnership," said Sharif.

Sharif added the two countries, already close allies and strategic partners, will increase cooperation in energy and infrastructure sectors.

"The two sides agreed that they will take the building of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor as the center and priorities, and focus on the four areas of Gwadar port, the transportation infrastructure, energy, and industry cooperation to form a one-plus-four cooperation layout," said Xi.

The corridor is a collection of roads, rail links and gas and oil pipelines going from Pakistan's southern seaport of Gwadar to southwestern China.

It is part of China's vision to revive the ancient Silk Road and join Asia to Europe via road and sea links.

 The way forward, however, is plagued by security concerns on both sides. A separatist insurgency in Pakistan's restive Baluchistan province and Islamist militancy elsewhere in the country have hampered development. Meanwhile, China is concerned Muslim separatists in its western Xinjiang region are receiving training and support from militants in Pakistan's lawless tribal areas.

Pakistan has promised to create a special security force to protect Chinese personnel and ensure smooth implementation of projects linked to the corridor.

Pakistan's military leadership apparently briefed the Chinese leader on its operation against militants in the northern areas. In his statement, President Xi encouraged them to continue.

"We support the Pakistani side to move forward its counterterrorism strategy in light of its own national conditions and are prepared and willing to continue to help Pakistan to strengthen its capacity to fight terrorism."

He also encouraged Pakistan to help stabilize neighboring Afghanistan. China is concerned that continuing violence in Afghanistan could hinder plans for the economic future of the region.
Indian Wells - World No 1 Novak Djokovic won the Indian Wells title on Sunday with a 6-2, 6-0 rout of a hobbled Milos Raonic, taking the crown for the third straight year and a record fifth time ...
Cape Town - South Africa may have to significantly restructure their team if JP Duminy is declared unfit for their key ICC World Twenty20 match against in-form West Indies at Nagpur on Friday (16:00 ...
Sydney - Australian authorities said on Sunday coral bleaching occurring in the World Heritage-listed Great Barrier Reef had become "severe", the highest alert level, as sea temperatures ...
Johannesburg -Three foundations have called on the ANC's National Executive Committee (NEC) to take decisive responsibility by implementing urgent "corrective" actions in the interests of all South ...
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Melbourne - Formula One will revert to the old system of qualifying for next ...
Paris - England, led by bullocking No 8 Billy Vunipola, confirmed their remarkable transformation from World Cup flops to Six Nations Grand Slam winners when they beat France 31-21 on Saturday.
The ...
Bengaluru, March 21 (IANS) Bangladesh piled up a score of 156/5 in 20 overs against Australia in the group stage Super 10 match at the World Twenty20 here on Monday. Mahmudullah top scored with a ...
Indian Wells (US), March 21 (IANS) Tennis World No.1 Novak Djokovic believes that male tennis players should earn more money than their female counterparts, considering the fact that more people ...
Melbourne, March 21 (IANS) Two-time Formula One world champion Fernando Alonso has admitted he is lucky to be alive after a high-speed crash that forced race officials to momentarily stop the ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Following his maiden win in the Indian Open last weekend, S.S.P. Chawrasia made a jump of 92 places to be 151st in the latest global golf rankings released on Monday. The ...
Melbourne, March 21 (IANS) Reigning Formula 1 champion Lewis Hamilton of team Mercedes said he is expecting a closer fight with team Ferrari in the forthcoming season and has downplayed the ...
Canberra, March 21 (IANS) Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull on Monday announded the country will hold an early election in July if the Senate fails to pass laws aimed at curbing union ...
Bengaluru, March 20 (IANS) Bangladesh coach Chandika Hathurusingha thinks Mushfiqur Rahim's mindset is getting in his way of returning to form. It has not been long since Mushfiqur was Bangladesh's ...
Bengaluru, March 20 (IANS) The International Cricket Council's (ICC) ban on bowlers Taskin Ahmed and Arafat Sunny for illegal actions in the middle of the World T20 campaign has diminished the ...
Bengaluru, March 20 (IANS) Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Bin Mortaza could not hold back his tears while speaking to the media on Sunday over the suspensions of bowlers Taskin Ahmed and Arafat ...
Canberra, March 20 (IANS) Queensland's political system is set for its biggest shake-up in the decades as a referendum for fixed four-year parliamentary terms looks likely to succeed. On Sunday, ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 20 (IANS) Malaysian officials said on Sunday that two pieces of suspected debris of the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 have arrived in Australia for verification. Both ...
Los Angeles, March 20 (IANS) Rapper Iggy Azalea has revealed she considered driving off a cliff to end her life last year after the backlash she received over her career pushed her into a dark zone ...
Kolkata, March 20 (IANS) After slumping to a six wicket defeat against India in the World Twenty 20, Pakistan skipper Shahid Afridi lavished praise on the hosts, saying one could learn from them how ...
London, March 20 (IANS) Singer Madonna is reportedly keen to hold "peace talks" with her former husband Guy Ritchie here next week when her Rebel Heart world tour comes to an end. The 57-year-old ...
Australian News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Free-spirited Australia - a continent offering endless holiday experiences. Explore the colours of the outback, the excitement of the cities and a range of natural wonders you won't find anywhere else. The pearly sails of the Sydney Opera House, jutting out to jewel-blue water and over-reached by the intricate Sydney Harbour Bridge has made Sydney Harbour one of the world's most recognisable images.
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
SHUANGYASHAN, China - Chinese authorities, predicting millions of layoffs have instead reassigned redundant workers at the state-owned coal and steel companies into low paying jobs. Miners that ...
Geneva 21 March 2016 (WMO) - The year 2015 made history, with shattered temperature records, intense heatwaves, exceptional rainfall, devastating drought and unusual tropical cyclone activity, ...
Seoul, Mar. 21 (ANI): North Korea on Monday fired five unidentified short-range projectiles from an area to the south of Hamhung city, South Hamgyong province, despite strict UN sanctions, according ...
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia - Saudi Arabia’s leading electrical product manufacturer, Alfanar Group has announced that it is close to finalising the procedures for the acquisition of Germany-based ...
CAIRO, Egypt - Egypt’s Interior Ministry has claimed that the death toll from a mortar attack has risen to 15. The ministry pointed out that all the victims are policemen, including three ...
BRUSSELS, Belgium - The arrest of Europe’s most-wanted man and the last known living operative with connections to the brutal Paris attacks of November 2015, has led to shocking ...
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia - Saudi Arabia’s leading electrical product manufacturer, Alfanar Group has announced that it is close to finalising the procedures for the acquisition of Germany-based ...
WASHINGTON – The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by temporarily easing trade sanctions slapped earlier this month against the Chinese telecom equipment and smartphone ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
SYDNEY, Australia - The sleeker, two-door version of the Mercedes-AMG C63 S is set to hit the roads down under in June 2016. AMG’s C63 Coupe is reportedly priced from $162,400 and reviews have ...
© 1999 - 2016 Australian News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)