2015-04~06
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/society/article/1825456/many-uygurs-drink-chinese-academic-defends-beer-festival-muslim

'Many Uygurs like to drink': Chinese academic defends beer festival in Muslim region | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Government event in mainly Muslim area ahead of Ramadan had been criticised as 'provocative'
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
A Communist Party academic defended a government-organised beer festival in a mainly Muslim county ahead of Ramadan by saying that locals enjoyed alcohol, a state-run newspaper reported on Tuesday.
Islam prohibits alcohol but authorities in Niya county, in the troubled Xinjiang region, held a beer drinking contest last Monday, three days before the start of Islam's holiest month, with cash prizes of up to US$160 for winners, the Global Times reported.
The county is in southern Xinjiang, the heartland of the Uygur ethnic minority, who are mostly Muslim.
Uygur rights groups say restrictions on Islam have added to ethnic tensions in the far western Muslim-majority region, where clashes have killed hundreds in recent years.
Beijing says it faces a terrorist threat in Xinjiang, with officials blaming "religious extremism" for growing violence.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for exiled group the World Uygur Congress, slammed the festival as an "open provocation" to faithful Muslims.
But the Global Times cited La Disheng, professor at a Xinjiang Communist Party training school, as saying that "many Uygurs … like to drink for pleasure".
He labelled those condemning drinking by local Muslims as "extremists and separatists".
The party tightly controls the media, and initial reports about the beer festival were apparently deleted yesterday.
The government had banned civil servants, students and teachers in Xinjiang from fasting during Ramadan and ordered restaurants to stay open, official websites said this month.
Xinjiang's government-run Tianshan website showed that officials in Niya county organised an event where local Muslims made and ate rice dumplings on Saturday, three days after the start of Ramadan, during which devout Muslims abstain from all food and drink during daylight hours.
An article posted on the regional government's news website on Sunday quoted one villager as saying: "This activity that's been organised is great, livening up the busy farming season and banishing our tiredness.
"I'm going to drink up, and I'll definitely get a top prize to take home and make my wife happy."
The Niya government website said the beer competition was attended by more than 60 young farmers and herders.