2015-04~06
http://www.dailypioneer.com/india-abroad/indiarussia-china-for-peaceful-reconciliation-in-afghanistan.html

India,Russia, China for peaceful reconciliation in Afghanistan

India, Russia and China have agreed to play a constructive role to support peaceful reconciliation and economic reconstruction of Afghanistan, saying the situation in the war-torn nation is closely connected with the regional security and stability.

 The three countries yesterday exchanged views on the situation in Afghanistan and the region as well as cooperation between the three countries on the Afghan issue, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing here today. "The three countries have agreed that the situation in Afghanistan is closely connected with the regional security and stability. As close neighbour of Afghanistan the three countries support peaceful reconciliation and economic reconstruction of Afghanistan and would like to play constructive role," she said.

 Officials of Russia, India and China (RIC) met in New Delhi for second round consultations on efforts to promote peace and stability in Afghanistan. China has stepped up its engagement with Afghanistan as US geared up to pull back its troops. Recent report said Beijing hosted a meeting of officials Pakistan, Afghanistan and Taliban in Xinjiang to bring about a reconciliation as the violence continued unabated in Afghanistan. Xinjiang, which is facing militant attacks by East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), borders Afghanistan and Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (POK).

 India, China and Russia countries also agreed to enhance communication on the Afghan issue and give full play to the role played by the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and Istanbul process and push for the stability, development and security of Afghanistan, Hua said. India is an observer SCO comprising China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan.

 Chances of India and Pakistan becoming members of the SCO have become bright as China and Russia backed their applications. Hua said Chinese Assistant Foreign Minister, Liu Jianchao who attended the meeting later met Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar and discussed issues relating to China-India relations.

 From a seven lakh-word-long book written over 25 years which was rejected by every publisher abroad to winning the $150,000 Windham-Campbell Literature Prize 2016 for fiction, Jerry Pinto recounts his journey to ANANYA BORGOHAIN

 
 Mumbai-based author and freelance journalist Jerry Pinto’s novel, Em and the Big Hoom (Rupa Publications, 2012), which won him the Windham-Campbell Literature Prize 2016, worth $150,000, was a profoundly gripping story of his mother who suffered from....

 
 Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav on Monday conferred the Yash Bharti awards on 46 eminent personalities from different fields. Congratulating the winners, Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav hoped that the awards would motivate and inspire the younger generation...
Today, nationalism is decided by whether or not one must say ‘Bharat Mata ki jai'. I'm happy to say it, but should I oblige everyone to say it?
I was raised in a Catholic way and have been true to my morals. I never felt comfortable being a sex symbol.
We, as women, have come a long way. We shouldn't have to drop to our knees before anyone (to thank for success of women's tennis).