2015-04~06
http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/worldviews/wp/2015/04/03/top-chinese-official-in-tibet-wants-buddhist-temples-to-spread-propaganda/

Top Chinese official in Tibet wants Buddhist temples to spread propaganda - The Washington Post
Sign in or create an account so we can save this story to your Reading List. You'll be able to access the story from your Reading List on any computer, tablet or smartphone.
China's top-ranking official in Tibet wants monks in the restive far western region to "revere" science and embrace the "warmth" of Chinese Communist Party ideology.
An article, cited by Reuters, written in a prominent fortnightly party magazine by Chen Quanguo, Tibet's Communist Party boss, urged Tibet's nearly 50,000 monks to see Beijing officialdom as "friends."
That's a bit of a tricky sell, given China's long history of repression in Tibet, its demonizing of the exiled Dalai Lama and the recurring gruesome tactic of self-immolation practiced by Tibetan monks protesting the Chinese state.
But Chen espouses the longstanding party line, arguing that, since its annexation by China in 1950, Tibetans have benefited from throwing off the shackles of their thralldom to Tibet's powerful lamas. In his article, Chen indicates that Tibet's hundreds of temples should recognize Beijing's vision of modernity.
"Let the monks and nuns in the temples and monasteries have a personal feeling of the party and government's care and warmth; let them feel the party's benevolence, listen to the party's words and follow the party's path," Chen writes in party journal Qiushi, which means "seeking truth."
He adds: "Monks and nuns should not have to go out of their temples or monasteries to understand the party and government's policies and social progress, or Tibet's peace, stability and good fortune, so as to be guided to follow a path of revering scientific culture."
This may sound benign, but there is an edge to the message. Stability and vigilance against any inkling of separatism are mantras of Beijing's one-party authoritarian state. Religion — particularly the Buddhism of Tibetans and the Islam of Uighurs in the neighboring restive region of Xinjiang — have long posed an implicit threat to Communist party ideology.
Chen's insistence on reverence for "scientific culture" is Beijing's way of saying minority religious practices need to be better controlled. Last year, in remarks addressing counterterrorism measures, Chinese President Xi Jinping insisted "patriotic clergy" in Xinjiang should help their co-religionists "adapt to a socialist society."
In the months since, Chinese authorities in the region have embarked on a widespread crackdown on Islamic and Uighur cultural practices, including the wearing of burqas and bans even on the growing of lengthy beards. According to my colleagues, they have even embarked on an Orwellian scheme where families in parts of Xinjiang sign "de-radicalization pledges" and encourage locals to report on each other.
This wasn't the first time Chen made a strong statement regarding religion in Tibet. Two years ago, also in Qiushi, he insisted that China must instruct people in Tibet "to be grateful to the Party, listen to the Party and follow the Party."
A spokesman from the toothless Tibetan-government-in-exile, based in India, offered this retort: "Ironically, [Chen] is expressing the kind of imperialist mentality that the Communist Party criticizes and claims to fight against."
China jails a Muslim for six years for shaving his beard
We will update you when news breaks about the virus.
Success! Check your inbox for details. You might also like:
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts.
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story.
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
It's 3D Mahjongg- you don't even need to wear 3D glasses!
Spider Solitaire is known as the king of all solitaire games!
Challenge your crossword skills everyday with a huge variety of puzzles waiting for you to solve.