2015-04~06
http://www.economist.com/node/21656216/comments

Comments on Tongue-tied | The Economist
The Economist welcomes your views. Please stay on topic and be respectful of other readers. Review our comments policy.
I found hard to understand the article as it lacks basic logic. Quite opposite to what author claimed, speaking the same language of course will bring mutual understanding and therefore stability in the long term. The reason why there are so many conflicts between the two is partly due to lack of communications between Han Chinese and Uighur. Han Chinese will more appreciate the situation of Uighurs if they can speak up in Mandarin rather than the language they cannot understand. Martin Luther King fight for African American's rights in English not in an African language. If he did that famous speech in an African language, most of, if not all, white Americans will simple ignore what he said. I believe in multi-culturalism and think every culture should be respected. But for each country there still has to be one mainstream culture that hold all people together. In multicultural nations such as Australia, Canada and US, no matter where are you from, everyone speaks English. So there is only one way to interpret the logic of this article, that is author hates to see the cultural integration happened in Xinjiang and believe Xinjiang should be an independent country. He has already set up a conclusion before he writes the article.
I can tell you that the first sentence is mistranslate.the sentence on the wall is means I will work for communism forever.
The western world should reflect themselves before attack China. What did they do in most colonies and how about the legency ？ For examples, in India, Latin America, Africa and so on.
The "karma", some vipers use it to curse China, is falling in Europa itself. Human right fighters, you can applaud for flooding immigrants from the middle-east and Africa, and waiting for the day that the EU become green.
Same approach that has been applied in Tibet for 60 years now, which has failed to win over Tibetans, but it has succeeded in making life a living hell for them. Same results in Uighur China predicated.
"even though English and Uighur—unlike Chinese—both use alphabetical scripts".
You've got to be kidding me. Uighur letters are nothing like English at all.
As for the ban on the veils, Uighur women never wear veils in history, and why on earth they want to do it now? To make a point? Sometimes I wonder whoever writes about China does not know about China and its people well. And I lost the respect for the Economist for failing to check the simple facts like this. Even worse, if this is done on purpose.
It's written with a version of the Arabic alphabet:
http://www.omniglot.com/writing/uyghur.htm
.
It's an alphabet unlike Chinese. The author is correct.
The Turkic alphabet uses Roman script and numerals, dipstick. Uighur women wear the hijab, which can be used as a veil, again, dipstick. Try checking fact yourself, dipstick.
Apparently the situation is already heading south...
.
"China says tourists attacked in Turkey during anti-China protests"
Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/reuters/article-3149897/China-says-tour...
.
Turkey is the main transit country for jihadists these days. Falling out with Turkey's government and Turkey's Muslim population means bad news and high risk for China...
What is ironic is that one of the protests happened at a 'Chinese' Restaurant in Turkey. The actual owner is a Turkish, the Chef is an Uighur and the 'Chinese' the protesters were insulting were Koreans.
And this so-called banning of fasting during Ramadan is not accurate neither. The western media is either that ignorant or intentionally spreading false news to stir up resentment towards the Hans.
I have heard similar stories in similar circumstances. East Asians do get mixed up all the time by outsiders. Koreans and Japanese will be collateral if the situation worsens, and their embassies will have to release travel alerts, too...
.
As for the situation in Xinjiang, I haven't been myself, so I rely on what I read. And if I recall correctly, the government has banned students and officials from fasting. Is that correct?
Now, the majority of them may well be Muslims, their whole families since ancient times may be Muslims. Tell me how that doesn't interfere with the free practise of religion?
Muslims are rather incited already, and while I agree, that an empty stomach may not study as well, there's another billion young Muslims outside of China who seem to manage.
Does that have to be the CPC's decision? I don't see why.
.
Besides, how is the CPC in Xinjiang ever to represent the people if it excludes them in the first place?
I have only been to Xinjiang once in 2007', so I won't claim to be an expert.
As far as I know, only the civil servants are banned from the Ramadan fasting. But the media is not telling the full story.
You may say this is their freedom of religion practise, but fasting does affect the services to the citizens, ALL citizens. It is just as controversial as whether a Sikh should be wearing helmet to ride a motorcycle or just his turban because of his religion. Or France banning the burqa of Muslim women in public places.
IMO, you can practise all you like as long as your religion practise does not affect others.
You have a choice of not fasting or not being a civil servant. How many big corporations in the West would allow their employees working with an empty stomach? It is a safety issue too.
Btw, the Xinjiang governor or chairman has always been an Uighur. The current governor is by the name of Zahir. He runs the daily affairs in Xinjiang as Li Keqiang runs the daily affairs in China. Zhang Chunxian you have mentioned few times is the party Secretary, whose role is more like Xi.
Thanks for clarifying, although I assumed as much. Fact is, as in Tibet - or the whole of China for that matter -, it's the party secretary who calls the shots. Messrs Zahir and Li are only the salesmen. Right?
.
As for Ramadan, to my knowledge it's been observed by billions of Muslims without economies collapsing or public services breaking down. Go, make your case in Turkey if you are so convinced about it!
Look, it's a sign of respect to allow people choices that don't hurt others. And how does fasting _hurt_ anyone?
.
How about the students by the way?
Chinese parents care about how their children grow up, and so do Uighurs.
.
FYI, I picked up the news on CCTV News, China's English language news channel.
Let me add, too, that wearing a burqa to my knowledge is an option for Muslims while observing Ramadan is not.
China is playing a more dangerous game than France.
Salesman or not, the governor Zahir does run the daily show. Zhang is there to ensure things are run according to the party policies. I would think this banning of fasting has been consulted with Zahir.
Although 'ADULT' muslins are obligated to observe Ramadan, not all muslins have to. Those who are travelling, sick, pregnant, breastfeeding or elderly do not have to observe. If I remember it correctly, many modern Malays do not observe it. So there are already many exceptions.
I don't know why students are banned, as only adults are obligated to fast. They don't observe it in the first place, so what fasting ban is there for students?
Fasting does not hurt anyone, I agree with that. But in the modern business world, it does affect efficiency. As I said, how many corporations in the West allow their employees fasting? I wouldn't trust a truck driver with a empty stomach, for safety reasons.
Civil servants are paid by all taxpayers. So it is only fair to provide the services to all at all time. Working with a empty stomach during daylight hours is not a good way to serve. Again, they have choices. They can work for private firms.
Btw, wearing a burqa is not a option to the hardcore muslins.
As outsiders we may reason as much as we like, the question is what it looks and feels like from the inside. My feeling is it smacks of disrespect and discrimination.
.
Try to make your case in Turkey, a reasonably modern Muslim country with a booming economy (until recently at least). You have to convince them, not me. I am a vegetarian; I'm not observing Ramadan.
.
I will be frank, no amount of talking would turn me a meat eater either.
Even the CPC wants to be respected in its practice of people's democratic dictatorship.
Giving respect to others is where it starts.
.
The burqa unlike fasting isn't mandated by the Qur'an, however much conservative fundamentalists may "fancy" it.
It may be difficult to say where the bottom line is but the burqa isn't.
Well, Turkey is officially a secular state. In fact, the Hijab had been banned by the state till just couple years ago. It wants politics separate from religion.
And it is always a waste of time to reason with religious conservatives. But as Catholics are starting to use birth controls, so can Muslins changing fasting rules to suit the modern days.
I am not observing Ramadan neither. It is not just refraining from food and drink, but also sex.... and I am a seafood lover. no shark fins though...
The magic word, I guess, is "can".
Education and rising living standards may be more conducive than official bans.
.
They only have to abstain during the day, as far as I know, but make up for it as soon as the sun sets...
You seem more knowledgable about the fineprint, though, than I am... ;)
"Students, teachers, civil servants and and Communist Party cadre members—a far-flung group that includes everyone from nurses to engineers to scholars—are forbidden from fasting and other activities. Government-run websites are running prominent messages explaining the ban on fasting, and lauding Muslims who do not fast.
[…] “Although it was Ramadan, the party members and the officials in this area showed their attitudes and expressed their opinions by not fasting, which shows the advance of the Communist Party,” and shows they are people who admire science and want to improve society, the [Tarim River Basin Management Bureau]’s website said."
In my view, the government is openly antagonizing the local population in Xinjiang with such statements.
Do you know what the best educated and highest earning ethnic groups in the US are? Hindus and Jews, both arguably at least as "religious" and "unscientific" as your average Muslim!
As if Communism and/or atheism was any more "scientific" than any other religion. For god's sake, it's just another freaking ism!
Han Chinese should get off their high horse in Xinjiang. That would be the first step towards reconciliation and de-colonization.
And honouring the occasion, let me light a few candles, too, for the most popular Chinese on the globe...
i i i i i i i i i i
i i i i i i i i i i
i i i i i i i i i i
i i i i i i i i i i
i i i i i i i i i i
i i i i i i i i i i
i i i i i i i i i i
i i i i i i i i i i
"Students, teachers, civil servants and and Communist Party cadre members—a far-flung group that includes everyone from nurses to engineers to scholars"
Party members?? Well, I have even less sympathy for them. Shouldn't communist members be atheists in the first place? nurses, teachers or not. Engineers... maybe :)..
And I think the students mentioned are college students. Children and elderly do not have to observe Ramadan.
http://www.quora.com/Why-do-followers-of-communism-as-a-matter-of-requir...
.
Apart from Cuba, I assume the various Communist parties of India, which have been voted into power by Hindus, Muslims, Christians and who not else, are made up of those very same people.
How else can the Party represent the people?
Jiang Zemin should have made it 'the Four Represents'! :)
.
Besides, you can't have it both ways, as someone points out:
"Reincarnation is not the business of the communists,'' he said.
http://www.latimes.com/world/asia/la-fg-tibet-future-20150705-story.html...
Teaching languages and culture is the solution, not a problem. Bilingual education too. There is nothing wrong with learning English via an intermediary language, if you only have a Mandarin-speaking teacher. Language and script have nothing to do with racism or oppression. The only issue is if anyone is forbidden to use or to be educated in their mother tongue.
If Uighur and Han kids learn both languages, soon there will be no deficit in bilingual teachers. That's 30,000 jobs!
China is not going to leave Xinjiang and if Uighurs want a future in China they will need to be able to speak Mandarin. That said, the Chinese could make it easier on themselves by sending Hui people (ethnic Han Muslims) to Xinjiang to administer state policies. As the two groups share a common religion, they can better interact and bridge the cultural gap.
Invest the money in Xinjiang on Uighur; there is no better stability then the kind that comes from a educated population that has a job, a mortgage, and spends its free time at the mall.
Better still, employ Uighur cadres to do the job. After more than half a century of Communist rule in Xinjiang, can the party not come up with a least a handful loyal local Communists?
If the answer to that question is no, then the case is hopeless and no one should be surprised that Uighurs feel that they're being colonized.
In the long term, that should be the goal and there are some Uighur members of the CCP already. However, there are more Hui member; the Hui are both Muslims and Chinese nationalist, thus they can bridge the gap.
I agree. Basically _anyone_ would be better than the guy who is currently in charge:
.
"Xinjiang’s top Communist Party official Zhang Chunxian told religious leaders that “hostile forces” were stepping up their infiltration in the restive region and that their teaching must be “sinicised” to ensure social stability, state media reported yesterday.
[…] He said religions must be “sinicised” and leaders must steer religions forward with Chinese socialism. He said religions must work under socialism to serve economic development, social harmony, ethnic unity and the unification of the country.
“Immerse religions in the Chinese culture… in order that religions can develop in a normal and healthy way,” he said."
.
http://chinadigitaltimes.net/2015/06/xinjiang-official-sinicize-religion...
.
I mean what does sinicising even mean in the context of Islam? At this point, I guess, it would be interesting to know in how far the Hui and Uighur interpretations of Islam vary at all? I frankly don't know.
Ultimately it's not about religion but about political representation.
To my knowledge, other minorities in Xinjiang, of which there are quite a number, seem to be less intent on challenging Han rule of their homeland. Most likely because they've always been minorities in that region and never called the shots anyway.
.
Han China needs to make Uighurs feel that they have a political stake in their own homeland (which used to be theirs in terms of actual control until the CPC took over).
.
The matter of religion is only being used to stoke the resentment that would be present in any case.
Look at Tibetans, same resentment, just different outlet due to their religious conditioning - shaming the Chinese by self-immolating instead of knifing them...
The Nationalist and Qing Emperors used to do that. But its unlikely the CPC would do it. They want to assimilate the Uighurs, even if means shoving pork down the throats of every Uighurs. They are giving bonuses to mixed race couples in Tibet and Xinjiang
Look at this way, as you said, people should just accept assimilation. There are 1.2 Billion Han Chinese, how many Xighurs are there. Just send more Han to Xinjiang, and marginalize them. The Chinese haven't done nearly as bad as the Americans. They can just copy the French with cultural genocide.
Within 100 years everyone in China will only speak Mandarin. It will be no different Japan.
Actually, it is the reverse, China was once ruled by dynasties of Mongols and Manchus; and most of the other minorities have been apart of China so long they have supplied numerous senior figures in Chinese history; their history is inseparable from Chinese history.
However, if the Chinese want the Uighurs to identify with China, they could point out the many Muslim (Hui) figures in Chinese history; like Zheng He and Ma Hongbin.
In a hundred years there will be less than 80 million Japanese left and probably less than a billion Han Chinese the world over.
And they will prefer living in the US, Canada, Australia and Europe to settling in Xinjiang and eating yang'rou'chuan day in day out...
Marginalizing the Uighurs by sending Han to Xinjiang is going to be a failing strategy. However, promoting assimilation through intermarriage and cultural exchange might work. I for personal dignity, but you have dignity within any cultural framework, so as long as the Uighurs (or their partial descendants) are treated the same as all other Han, fine.
With all due respect to The Economist, this is a ridiculous article...
:
1 - Instability increases with economic isolation
:
2 - The best way to becoming economically isolated is to not speak the dominant language of the region (Mandarin)
:
And this quote was hilarious "... But in Xinjiang even many Uighurs who speak fluent Mandarin find it hard to get ahead, partly because of racial prejudice. Highly educated Uighurs tend to earn less than their Han equivalents..."
:
(If they did not speak Mandarin they would be earning ZERO)
:
:
In China today, kids are forced to learn English (the dominant language of the world today). The reason being, that when they grow up (and unlike their parents), they would interact more easily with the world economy.
:
And the same logic would hold for the Uighurs (or any isolated culture)
how about concentrating on English taught to native American Indians, and Australian aborigal people instead of berating Chinese. White people's era is over, and get over it.
Assimilating minorities into Chinese culture has a long, quite succesful history in China (in part, that's why today the Chinese number more than a billion people). And it seems strange that the Economist would oppose teaching a minority people like Uyghur the Chinese language, which will increasingly be a language associated with high technology.
I think what The Economist does oppose here is to replace Uighur language by Chinese. It is the same as what you Chinese do today. You learn English because it is broadly used but Chinese is irreplaceable for you.
Not exactly. The combination of public schools not offering the option and parents too pre-occupied with work produces this outcome.
The Uighur language isn't being replaced. They still learn the Uighur language in school, they still study Uighur literature, and they still use the Uighur language around the home.
Are there still any native Indians in US? do they learn English from school or not?
Yes, we are still here. Interesting that one of the tools of assimilation used in residential schools in Canada was forced language assimilation. If you take away or diminish a person's language at an early age, you take away their culture.
This generation of Uighur children will still be educated in Uighur literature in their native language. Were Canada's natives educated in their native literature by the State?
There should be no place for a division. The best way to integrate people in to the main stream is to have a common law, common language and no GOD..
I am amazed how fast the America and Britain have found sympathy for Uighurs - is it because they wouldn't like to leave any stone unturned to create problems for China?
TE hardly represent the mainstream view. For instance, when rest of media had turned against the decision on Iraq's invasion, TE was still harping about the "benefits" of the invasion.
[Teaching Uighur children in Mandarin will not bring stability to Xinjiang]
But shooting them dead might and that is being done at the same time but in another place:
Westerners love to point out other people's faults point when you point out their (many more) faults, they cannot handle it.
Actually I think that was a specialty of the Soviets. As in the Soviet "what about" rhetorical tactics.
Actually I think that was a specialty of the Soviets. As in the Soviet "what about" rhetorical tactics.]
Don't know what this Soviet rhetorical tactics was but the white West does have this "pretend it did/does not happen" mentality when it comes to the more serous faults of their own. You are demonstrating that right here and now.
Memo to The Economist: stop calling Chinese "Hans." Call them what they are: Chinese. This Han thing came up only after the Tibetans started bitching about Beijing's beginning to enforce its writ on the monasteries and the temples. The so-called "Hans" constitute 95% of China's population. Guess what? That's approaching 100%. In another 100 years, it will be 100%. And that won't necessarily be a bad thing...
This is not only ardently racist but also flat-out false. Upwards of 90% of the country is indeed Han, but that still leaves over one hundred million people who fall into any one of the 55 official recognized minority group, from Russian to Tibetan to Miao to Uighur. The Economist is quite right in choosing to distinguish between Han and other Chinese; while the language and cultural norms of the Han have been made standard, that does not give anyone, especially you, the right to erase the unique identities of non-Han Chinese citizens.
Honest question: why have Uighurs committed more atrocities than Tibetans or Mongolians, despite all three being minority groups in comparable situations? Is Islam at least partially to blame, or are other factors dominant?
Muslims are not a small group globally. When you persecute them they fight back. They don't believe in non-violence like the Buddhists.
The Tibetan Buddhists might believe in non-violence towards others but not towards themselves. Their monks burn themselves alive in front of Chinese guards. Seems like a pointless excercise. At least strap on a bomb or two and take out a few of the enemy while you are at it. Which brings me to another point - the Tibetans lack the globally jihadi training network that Muslims have. Muslims know how to wage an insurgency.
If TE keeps generating rubbish articles like this one, I would rather to read the dailymail.
This is a sub-par article from your magazine. (It is not even news). The last sentence of the article does not read convincing at all, as many readers have pointed out here.
And Uighur is not the only minority race in Xinjiang. It is a highly mixed region with many tribes and not all of them have good relationship with the Uyghur, who are the majority of the minority. Seeing Xinjiang as 'Uyghur land'may raise fantasy but is irresponsible.
If we think about the Latinos and African Americans in the U.S., we will know that how important it is to speak English in the U.S., or Mandarin in China, if you want a decent job. Even many Han people, not only the Uighurs who cannot speak Putonghua(the common tone of Mandarin), also don't have well-paid jobs. Mandarin is a part of education in China, for we all have our local dialects, but in liue of comminication, we speak Putonghua.
Just like almost all readers of the economist, I speak English. (Although) I am a Chinese. Nobody(well, maybe my parents and school teachers) forces me to learn English, but if I want to communicate with other people outside your daily communication circle, as what those Uighur purpils in Xinjiang are tring to, you gotta learn the lanaguage of the powerful, English or Chinese, like it or not.
I hope that the regional political leaders in India are reading this. They are misleading the locals to stay away from English
Beacuse they can speak English fluently. If everyone can speak English as good as them, it will be pretty hard for them tho fool the people .:)
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more