2015-04~06
http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/weird-news/isis-oldest-jihadi-fighter-oap-5828717

Is this ISIS' oldest jihadi fighter? OAP aged 80 appears in new propaganda video - Mirror Online
A new propaganda video from ISIS shows a man who could be their oldest jihadist - at 80-year-old.
It's thought that Muhammed Amin is a member of the Muslim Uighur minority in China, making up around 45% of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region's population, reports Shanghaiist.
The video shows him telling a fellow fighter that he pledged to join Islamic State when his son was killed in Syria alongside the Mujahideen.
Shot in a part of Syria controlled by the self-proclaimed Islamic Caliphate, the video sees Amin reveal that he also brought his wife, daughter and four grandsons to the country.



YouTube


Ready to fight: The 80 year old took part in a training camp to learn the ways of battle



In the video, he says: "I came to the Islamic State and went to training camp despite my old age... I crawled, I ran and I rolled."
He talks about the oppression he experienced in Turkestan for 60 years "at the hands of the Chinese".
"Hijrah and jihad for Allah's cause are great blessings," he adds.
The video shows the interview with Amin interspersed with young Uighur boys being indoctrinated in the ways of jihad, with one singing a song in praise of martyrdom.
A classmate then shouts a warning at the Chinese government.



YouTube


Propaganda: The video shows young Uighur boys being indoctrinated in the ways of jihad



He says: "O Chinese kuffar, know that we are preparing in the land of the Khalifah and we will come to you and raise this flag in Turkestan."
The government in China believes that Uighur Muslims are training with ISIS before returning to take action against China in Xinjiang.
In an effort to curb the suspected activity, authorities have reportedly ordered the sale of cigarettes and alcohol at Muslim-owned shops, put a burkha ban on buses, put a Muslim man in jail for six years when he grew a beard and burned almost 100,000 confiscated matchboxes in Xinjiang.
In just one year the group has cut a carved a path of blood, fear, violence, rape and intolerance in a brutal campaign throughout Syria and Iraq
WARNING: Graphic content. Hundreds gathered to watch ISIS fighters brutally execute three gay men in the city of Mosul, Iraq