2015-04~06
http://www.womenofchina.cn/womenofchina/html1/news/action/1505/509-1.htm

Couples Attend Mass Wedding Ceremony in NW China's Xinjiang - All China Women's Federation
Thirteen couples from the Uyghur ethnic minority tied the knot at a group wedding held in a village in Kashi City in northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region on May 5.
Over 1,000 local villagers witnessed the ceremony and immersed themselves in the joyous mood.
This was the second group wedding held by the town of Naize'er Ba'ge and more will be held in future, said Ma Chunming, a resident Party secretary.
The group wedding, organized by the local people's government, aimed to update old customs and advocates a simple, modern style of wedding. It offered a chance for young people to get a sense of the care that society can offer them, and to think of themselves as part of a large family.
The event also aimed to motivate them into building a good home life and help contribute towards developing a better social ethos.
The couples took an oath before a national flag and expressed their confidence in creating a better future for themselves.
"The wedding is well organized and will be the best memory of my life," said Guza Nu'er, one of the brides, excitedly.
"Today is a memorable day in my life. The wedding is very meaningful. It is solemn and without extravagance," said Abdulla, a bridegroom, adding that the wedding helped him save over 40,000 yuan (U.S.$6,452) so that he could spend the money for future demands.
The town's government and the local women's federation presented some home appliances as gifts to the newly-weds.
Performances were staged including singing and dancing, as well as a theater performance on the theme of fighting against domestic violence and building the "most beautiful" family.
Deputy-Major of Kashi City Gulixian Yazunong attended the wedding and expressed her best wishes to all the couples.
Couples take an oath before the national flag. [Xinjiang Women's Federation/Sui Jian]
Couples on the stage decorated with a floral arch [Xinjiang Women's Federation/Sui Jian
Please understand that womenofchina.cn,a non-profit, information-communication website, cannot reach every writer before using articles and images. For copyright issues, please contact us by emailing: website@womenofchina.cn. The articles published and opinions expressed on this website represent the opinions of writers and are not necessarily shared by womenofchina.cn. 
Copyright 2005-2014 All rights reserved. Women's Foreign Language Publications of China.  Email: website@womenofchina.cn