2015-04~06
http://www.gq-magazine.co.uk/entertainment/articles/2015-06/16/ai-weiwei-exhibition-the-royal-academy-of-arts

From China with love: the UK welcomes Ai Weiwei | British GQ
From 2010 to 2011, millions of sunflower seeds spilled across the floor of the Tate Modern. From far away, each one looked identical, but they were all individually handcrafted in porcelain. As Ai Weiwei's successful Sunflower Seeds installation came to its close, the artist was detained in his home country of China for 81 days. The Chinese authorities confiscated his passport and he has been unable to leave since then.
Sunflower Seeds might have been one of the first instances where the British public was directly exposed to Weiwei's work, but it certainly wasn't the last.
The Royal Academy of Arts is working diligently in preparation for Weiwei's first major exhibition in the UK. Opening in September, it will span over 20 years of the artist's career (from 1993 onwards). Weiwei himself is an Honorary Royal Academician and has been actively involved in the process - if not in person, at least certainly in spirit.
Video footage and architectural plans have made it possible for Weiwei to virtually investigate the Academy's Main Galleries. Although Weiwei says that he "always live[s] in hope" at the prospect of coming over to London, it is rather unlikely.

ART Why we vinyl wrapped a BMW 7 Series with a fried egg

Nonetheless, the Academy is ready to roll out the red carpet, much to Weiwei's predicted protestation to the fanfare, in case he does.
Some of the workers from Weiwei's studio will be making the journey, however, to oversee the smooth running of the exhibition in its final stages.
In addition, Tim Marlow, Artistic Director and co-curator of the exhibition, and Adrian Locke, co-curator of the exhibition, have made five trips between them to Weiwei's studio in Beijing. His company goes by the tongue-in-cheek name FAKE. The four letters are inescapably positioned outside of where Weiwei lives in Caochangdi, Beijing. Always one to make light of the situation, Weiwei has hung red lanterns to sway defiantly below the surveillance cameras opposite his compound. The police installed at least 20 of them to keep an eye on Weiwei's activities. Everyday without fail, he also places fresh flowers in a bicycle that is chained to a tree across from his home.
Up to 60 percent of the artwork for the Academy's exhibition will be shipped over from Weiwei's studio, including 90 tonnes of the 150 tonne work, Straight. Marlow and Locke have decided to stay mum about most of the works that will be on display in September. The ones they have shared with us are enough cause for excitement already.
After the Sichuan earthquake of 2008, Weiwei gathered bent and twisted rebar, which are the steel rods utilised in the construction of reinforced concrete buildings. They were then straightened by hand, hence the title of the artwork. When Weiwei was released from detention in 2011, he claims that the first thing he heard was the sound of his helpers banging hammers against metal, working on Straight even during his absence. The final product mirrors the seismic waves of the earthquake.
Weiwei dipped these Neolithic vases in paint to challenge our notions of whether they are more valuable now than they previously were in their authentic form. Weiwei is also fascinated by forgeries and the fine line between fakes and originals. One of these vases (worth £600,000) was actually deliberately broken in 2014 during an exhibition in Miami, Florida.
The disgruntled man wanted to protest the fact that the museum was not showing work from local artists. This brings us to Weiwei's next artwork, where he does something very similar, but for a very different reason...
The lack of expression shown in Weiwei's face demands a reaction from the viewer while he engages in what he has described as a "silly act". The photo set references the destruction of historic and religious Chinese artefacts in a blasé manner. Yet, it also underscores China's desire for economic development, even if that means many of China's historic towns and cities will suffer in the process.
When Weiwei was released from detention, the Chinese authorities branded him with tax evasion, fining him £1 million that had to be paid in 15 days. Thousands of people donated money to the artist, whether they be small or great contributions. Weiwei wrote an I.O.U. for every individual who helped him raise the money to settle his tax bill. The notes will be displayed as a section of wallpaper at the Academy.
Weiwei's father, poet Ai Qing, and his family were sent to a military re-education camp in Xinjiang to live in despicable conditions until 1976 when he was rehabilitated. An archaeological excavation conducted in secret uncovered a group of bones of an unidentified intellectual who was subjected to similar labour camp conditions. The bones were brought to Weiwei, who replicated them in porcelain in honour of his father's plight and that of thousands of others under Chairman Mao's regime.
This porcelain puzzle is modelled from traditional Chinese pendants depicting a family's name and their status. On this map of China, "Free Speech" is the "family name" for the entire country. This brilliant piece of art speaks for itself, because it embodies everything Weiwei stands for: the right to free speech, for everyone.
Weiwei is still working right up until the deadline for the exhibition, evidence of a mind that is perpetually brimming with ideas. However, as Weiwei himself decides to humbly put it: "I just do my job, you know." That he does and he does it exceptionally well. As for the Chinese authorities, there has been no word from them yet, but not even they could get in the way of this unstoppable, artistic force.
The Ai Weiwei exhibition at the Royal Academy of Arts will run from 19 September until 13 December. Tickets are available to purchase now from the Royal Academy.