2013-01~06
http://www.news24.com/World/News/Violence-hits-Chinas-west-ahead-of-anniversary-20130629

Violence hits China's west ahead of anniversary | News24
Myanmar's parliament elects a new president as the head of the country's first democratically elected government, but it won't be Aung San Suu Kyi, the widely known face of the country's decades long struggle against military rule.
Uighurs living in Turkey set a Chinese flag on fire as they stage a demonstration outside the Chinese embassy in Ankara. (File, AFP)

Multimedia   Â·   User Galleries   Â·   News in Pictures
Send us your pictures  Â·  Send us your stories

China's communist authorities have labeled some of the incidents - including one which left 35 people dead - as terrorist attacks, and President Xi Jinping has ordered that they be promptly dealt with to safeguard overall social stability, state media reported.
The latest violent incidents were reported in southern Xinjiang's Hotan area. In one, more than 100 knife-wielding people mounted motorbikes in an attempt to storm the police station for Karakax county, the state-run Global Times reported.
Another was an attack mob in the township of Hanairike on Friday afternoon, according to the news portal of the Xinjiang regional government. It said the mob was armed, but did not say with what sort of weapons.
The official Xinhua News Agency reported a "violent attack" Friday afternoon on a pedestrian street in downtown Hotan city. No casualties were reported for any of the incidents, which state media say were quickly brought under control. The government's news portal, Tianshan Net, said there was no civilian casualty in Hanairike.
It has not been possible to independently verify the reports because of tight controls over information in the region.
The incidents on Friday in Xinjiang came after what the government described as attacks on police and other government buildings on Wednesday in eastern Xinjiang's Turpan prefecture's Lukqun township killed 35 people.
That was one of the bloodiest incidents since the July 5, 2009, unrest in the region's capital city, Urumqi, killed nearly 200.
Xinjiang (shihn-jeeahng) is home to a large population of minority Muslim Uighurs (WEE'-gurs) in a region that borders Central Asia, Afghanistan and Pakistan, and has been the scene of numerous violent acts in recent years.
Critics often attribute the violence in Xinjiang to what they say is Beijing's oppressive and discriminatory ethnicity policies. Many Uighurs complain that authorities impose tight restrictions on their religious and cultural life.
The Chinese government says that it has invested billions of dollars in modernizing the oil- and gas-rich region and that it treats all ethnic groups equally.
Calls to local government agencies were either unanswered or returned with the answer that they were unauthorized to speak.
State-run media reported that the incident Wednesday started when knife-wielding assailants targeted police stations, a government building and a construction site - all symbols of Han authority in the region.
Photos released in state media show scorched police cars and government buildings and victims lying on the ground, presumably dead.
An exiled Uighur activist has disputed that account, saying the violence started when police raided homes. It was impossible to independently confirm the conflicting accounts.
Xinhua said 11 assailants were shot dead, and that two police officers were among the 24 people they killed.
"This is a terrorist attack, there's no question about that," Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said Friday at a regular news briefing. "As to who masterminded it, local people are still investigating."
State news reports did not identify the ethnicity of the attackers, nor say what may have caused the conflict in the Turkic-speaking region. The reports said police captured four injured assailants.
The Global Times newspaper said on Saturday that police had stepped up security measures, deploying more forces to public areas, governmental institutes and compounds for police and military police. It said a suspect was captured on Friday afternoon in Urumqi.
Dilxat Raxit, spokesman for the Germany-based World Uyghur Congress, questioned Beijing's account of the event, saying local residents had told him police had forcefully raided homes at night, triggering the deadly conflicts.
24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.
24.com publishes all comments posted on articles provided that they adhere to our Comments Policy. Should you wish to report a comment for editorial review, please do so by clicking the 'Report Comment' button to the right of each comment.
How to make the most of the long weekend and Easter break.
...it's me, AGAIN! Anje Rautenbach reaches out to SA's busiest airport.
Time to get into the Easter spirit if you haven't already!

 Cape TownHire ResolveR280 000 - R360 000 Per Year
There is a tendency to over spend or have unrealistic expectations that could affect your budget. Slow down a bit and reorganise...read more
After a fun-filled weekend of playing, it is time to focus on reorganising your daily rhythm. Work before play is the focus for...read more
It is easy to overreact today as the under current energy is quite tense and heated. Try to remain calm and avoid the people and...read more
Just because you can`t see it, doesn`t mean it is not there. Let go of outwardly looking for directions and rely on your insight...read more
Focus on your foundations. Make sure they are solid before pushing ahead too quickly. There is a tendency to overreact or push too...read more
The moon moves into the ordered sign of Virgo emphasising the need to slow down and reorganise your daily rhythm. Too much of a...read more
You may find yourself becoming more critical and frustrated today as things may not flow as easily and harmoniously. The...read more
Try not to obsess too much on what you cannot have, and focus on pacing yourself back into reality and finding a way to create a...read more
As much as you like things to be endless and limitless and abundant, at some point you need to contain these dreams and ideals to...read more
If things are not working your way. Stop for a moment and look at other options. Pushing, forcing or reacting will not solve the...read more
The moon has now moved into analytical and ordered Virgo. It is a good time to take your creative ideas and dreams and find a...read more
The moon moves out of playful Leo throwing you back into the tendency to over analyse and over think things. Try not to push so...read more
News24 on Android
 Get the latest from News24 on your Android device.

TV
 Get us in your home, on your television. 

Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.
This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.

 News24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location.
 If you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences, please select a
 location for each component and click "Submit" in order for the changes to
 take affect.

 Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.


 Log in with Facebook to comment and personalise news, weather and listings.
