2013-01~06
http://blogs.wsj.com/japanrealtime/2013/06/24/exiled-leader-sees-more-pressure-on-uighurs-under-xi-2/

Exiled Leader Sees More Pressure on Uighurs Under Xi - Japan Real Time - WSJ

 WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:

Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use.Please re-enter the email address.
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
Rebiya Kadeer, the top leader of exiled Uighur activists, says she hoped new Chinese leader Xi Jinping would end the plight of her people and ease ethnic tensions. Only three months after his appointment, she is pessimistic. The pressure on the Uighur people has become harsher.
China’s rapid economic development has led to mass migrations of Han Chinese to seek their fortunes in the remote Xinjiang province, home to the Muslim Uighur minority, where animosities between the two sides have led to frequent violent clashes. The most recent confrontation occurred in late April, when over 20 people were reported to be killed.
Ms. Kadeer, president of the Munich-based World Uighur Congress, said violence in Xinjiang has continued since.
“Recently, police and special forces have been permitted to search every house without reason,” she said. “If the owners put up a fight for invasion of privacy, they will simply kill them and say there was terrorist activity in the house–an incident like this just happened in May in the countryside.”
A Chinese embassy spokesman in Tokyo dismissed Ms. Kadeer’s decision to come to Japan. “Rebiya Kadeer’s recent visit is regrettable,” he told JRT. “She promotes anti-China activities and has connections to terrorism. The Chinese government feels her activities are ill-willed.”
Last year, Japan’s decision to host a large conference of Uighur activists upset the Chinese government and led to cooling of bilateral relations. Many Japanese politicians attended the event.
This year, Ms. Kadeer is participating in lecture events in Tokyo, Sapporo, Osaka, Nagoya, and Okinawa, sponsored by a private group of exiled Uighurs and their Japanese supporters. She does not intend to meet with any policy makers, citing the preparations for the upper house election next month as the reason. “This time, my trip is simply to talk with ordinary Japanese people about what has been happening recently with the Uighur issue.”
During her passionate speech at the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of Japan Thursday, Ms. Kadeer said she now has doubts about Mr. Xi’s stance toward China’s ethnic populations. “We hoped that Xi Jinping could bring a better ethnic policy towards the Uighurs, and release prisoners from jail. Unfortunately, instead he announced there are three forces in Xinjiang: separatism, extremism, and terrorism. The pressure on the Uighur people remains unchanged.”
Her visit to Japan in May last year caused a diplomatic stir as the Chinese government harshly rebuked the Uighur conference as a separatist activity looking to undermine Japan-China relations. Despite the noticeable presence of Japanese lawmakers at the conference, Tokyo maintained it was nothing more than a private event. Nevertheless, the argument led to the cancellation of  high-level meetings on the Chinese side, including one between former Chinese President Hu Jintao and then-Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda.
Ms. Kadeer also visited a controversial war shrine in Tokyo that has long irked Asian neighbors occupied by Japan during World War II. According to a flyer for the ongoing forum distributed by the Japan-Uighur Association, Ms. Kadeer called the Japanese war dead commemorated at the Yasukuni shrine “heroes,” and expressed that she wanted to establish a similar place dedicated to Uighur heroes in the future. She even contributed ¥100,000 to the Tokyo metropolitan government’s now-defunct fund to purchase contested East China Sea islands which the Japanese call Senkaku and the Chinese call Diaoyu. Both the Yasukuni and island issues are considered extremely sensitive to the Chinese.
Chinese government has always been trying to hide its inhuman policies that they`ve been implementing for over 60 years in Uighurs land. However, the truth has been told by this brave woman-Rabiya Kadeer, since she got out of Chinese territory in 2005,and landed her foot on the Home of the Brave. Since then, this forgotten part of the world, its people, and their voices were heard by the western countries. People began to realize that this peaceful nation who had and still have their wonderful culture which has enriched many nations society over the thousands of years, are ruled and treated inhumanly by the Red Evil Dragon.
As hard as it is to believe, Chinese governments brutal policies still getting worse and worse and worse.. As one of the biggest economic power of the world, Chinese government use its reputation to cover their Dark Blots and bloody truths. This may last a while, but it is for sure that this blood-thirsty Red empire will fall, like every other dictator fell in the past. And when that day comes, chinese people and other minorities who live under the shadow of red dragon will get thier freedom, democracy, and bright future.
@FACTS TALKS There was no proper country 2500 years ago and borders were all varying as it was common for neighbors to conquer each other. And "han" is a diverse group of peoples - even genetically distinguishable amongst itself. Physically, I have met "han" with more western Asian features than others, some with stronger north Asiatic features, etc.
This is about the Uyghur separatists wanting to separate but have no basis to separate based on origin because Xinjiang consisted of multiple groups including "han", Kyrgyz, Kazakhs, etc. long before Uyghurs migrated largely to form a majority in Xinjiang. Not everyone in Xinjiang want a separate country for fear of instability and extremism spreading from neighboring countries. Japan is just playing my enemy's enemy is my friend game and have no genuine interest in Uyghurs.
It is more than obvious the above statement is factual
But statement made by other opposing side where Historically completely wrong.
Historically, Under the Xia dynasty,Xinjiang, Tibet, Mongolia etc... (see map of Xia dynasty)
No statement can be made that Xinjiang was historically part of China.
With a documented history of at least 2,500 years, a succession of peoples and empires has vied for control
over all or parts of this territory. Before the 21st century, all or part of the region has been ruled, controlled,
The first people lived in Xinjang were Central Asian mongoloid people and few thousand years ago European
migrants came in the Xinjang. According to J.P. Mallory and Victor H. Mair
Japan Real Time is a newsy, concise guide to what works, what doesn’t and why in the one-time poster child for Asian development, as it struggles to keep pace with faster-growing neighbors while competing with Europe for Michelin-rated restaurants. Drawing on the expertise of The Wall Street Journal and Dow Jones Newswires, the site provides an inside track on business, politics and lifestyle in Japan as it comes to terms with being overtaken by China as the world’s second-biggest economy. You can contact the editors at japanrealtime@wsj.com
An error has occured and your email has not been sent. 
 Please try again.
