2013-01~06
http://gulfnews.com/opinions/columnists/chinese-repression-in-xinjiang-1.1300682

Chinese repression in Xinjiang | GulfNews.com
The monthly women's lifestyle magazine offering real solutions for real women.
The most read magazine in the UAE. Lively, intelligent and thought-provoking.
Focused reports on events, business and lifestyle. In depth, insightful, influential.
An inspiring home interiors magazine showcasing the best interior design.
The No. 1 source for entertainment, lifestyle & fashion in the UAE.
In-depth look at issues behind the news, with sections on people, books and art.
A weekly motoring magazine packed with the latest local and global motoring news, reviews and views.
The UAE's most listened to pop music FM radio station.
Radio 2 is all about great fun and great music!
A contemporary hits radio station with a South Asian focus
Gadget soup for the techy soul. News and reviews with our own irreverent spin
The UAE's monthly magazine for men. High octane cars, gadgets, and interviews.
The UAE's first stop shop for buying and selling cars.
Give your career a boost. Find the best and latest jobs.
Digital version of today’s newspaper, exactly as it is in print.
Get your brand seen in the region's most read newspaper.
100s of offers, half price deals, 2 for 1s - and more.
Have something you want to tell us, a question, or complaint?
Migration is a fact of history. We should learn to handle it, not pretend to stop it.
The struggle by the people of this province for independence from Communist domination is just beginning — and their fate matters
When in the in wildly popular TV series, The Sopranos, Tony Soprano’s college-age daughter Meadow started dating a biracial — the product of a union between a black father and a Jewish mother — the Don was not pleased. He referred to him dismissively as that “Jamal Rosenberg fellow”. Later, when Meadow took up with an Italian-American — a less academically endowed suitor whom Mrs Soprano disapproved of — the Don (played by the late James Gandolfini) again put in his five cents worth about race. “Whatchu talking about?” he scolded his wife. “He’s one of us.”
The script writers may have hit on somehing here, beyond highlighting Tony Soprano’s bigotry: The penchant that people everywhere have — encoded in their human consciousness — to instinctively reach out to those who belong to their “community”, to that commonwealth of ethnicity, of faith, of nationality and the rest of it.
Thus, when in the 1990s, Russia launched two wars against the people of Chechnya, a Muslim republic that had long suffered grievously under Russian Tzars as under Communist Commissars, we hurriedly dusted off our atlases. First step: Find Chechnya on the map. Second step: Order and read half a dozen decent books on the subject. Third step: Have an extended lunch with a professor versed in Russian Studies where he will answer for you unresolved questions about a people whose name you cannot pronounce, whose patrimony you cannot locate and whose history you cannot fathom.
Chechens were Muslims and you were a Muslim. They were being invaded, bombed and massacred. There was no doubt about where your sympathies lay in this conflict: One’s fellow Muslims were being oppressed in a far away land by a big power noted for its traditions of totalitarian rule and of subjugation of ethnic minorities in its “republics”. Even those of us who called themselves political commentators, to whom objectivity was a major building block of their craft, could not wholly free ourselves of that parochial sentiment, or prevent that sentiment from stealthily projecting itself into their commentary.
And now here we go again. Just as in the 1990s Chechens, out of the blue, as it were, burst upon us and insinuated themselves into our public debate, we today have to edify ourselves about the Uighurs, a Muslim minority — neither ethnic Chinese nor Chinese-speaking — who live on the western-most edge of northern China in a region called Xinjiang, that had chafed under Chinese rule since it was grabbed by the Communists in 1949. Since then, Communist leaders have done more than just repress these people’s common freedoms — they have encouraged a steady influx of ethnic Chinese into their region.
That is a policy the Chinese central government had learned from the Russians, a policy known as “Russification”, whose aim again — whether under the Tzars or the Commissars — was to encourage the massive settlement of ethnic Russians in republics in the Caucasus, Central Asia and, as recent events in Crimea will attest, Ukraine, where Russians were assigned to leading administrative positions in national institutions and where the Russian language was used in business, schools, media, parliamentary debate and the like.
The objective here clearly was Russian domination not in political culture, but in demographics as well. That is precisely what the Chinese have been doing to the Turkic-speaking Uighurs in Xinjiang. And that is precisely what these independent-minded people have been protesting all these years — and why eight of these folks, wielding knives, attacked people at random in a railway station in the southwestern city of Kunming last week, killing 29 and wounding 130, 20 of them seriously.
Let us be clear: The assailants were terrorists, the assault was an act of terrorism and the end result was horror.(Four of the attackers were shot dead by police, one female suspect was injured and detained and three male suspects were arrested.)
‘Terrorism’ is a loaded word and its use often invites a value judgement, true, and some readers do get testy — or at best just uneasy — when columnists attempt to go beyond an act of terror to understand its motive. Our attempt, in other words, is seen as sympathy for the act of terror than for the cause the trerrorist is promoting. What those Uighurs did in Kunming, slashing away with kitchen knives at innocent Chinese passengers, was wrong, wrong, wrong, as indeed was another shocking attack blamed on Uighurs last October, when a jeep veered into a crowd in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square, killing five people after it crashed and burst into flames. But then let us backtrack to 2009, when clashes with Chinese police in Xinjiang caused the death of roughly 200 Uighur demonstrators and the death of another hundred last year.
The struggle by the people of Xinjiang for independence from Communist domination is just beginning. Their fate matters. And lest we forget, they are “one of us”. And they are one of us not only because they are Muslim (surely there are other coordinates of cultural reference that touch on the contours of our sense of solidarity with others), but because they are little people being victimised by an occupying power immeasurably bigger and stronger than they are. Sounds familiar?
Fawaz Turki is a journalist, lecturer and author based in Washington. He is the author of The Disinherited: Journal of a Palestinian Exile.
Migration is a fact of history. We should learn to handle it, not pretend to stop it.
The initial overtures that Obama has made towards Cuba have already become an important part ...
The West is wary of headstrong leaders and appears to be losing patience with Recep Tayyip Er ...
GulfNews.com is the most widely read newspaper, and online site in English in the Middle East. With a daily BPA audited paid circulation of over 108,000, and an online audience of 3.5 million uniques every month, it is your go to source for information on the region. Sign up below to begin personalising your experience