2013-01~06
http://www.upi.com/Top_News/World-News/2013/04/24/21-people-including-15-police-killed-in-Xinjiang-clash/UPI-41451366806104/

15 police and officials among 21 killed in Xinjiang clash - UPI.com
BEIJING, April 24 (UPI) -- Police officers were among the 21 people killed when suspected terrorists fought with police in China's Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, officials said.
The attacks occurred Tuesday in a town in Bachu County when three community workers reported suspicious individuals and knives in a resident's home, China's state-run Xinhua news agency reported Wednesday. The suspects hiding in the house captured the community workers, officials said.
The BBC reported 15 police and officials were among those killed in the confrontation.
Police officers and community officials were attacked and killed by the suspects, who also killed the three community workers taken hostage, Xinhua said.
Xinhua reported the suspects had set the house on fire.
The incidents come amid ethnic tensions between the Muslim Uighur and Han Chinese communities. In 2009, nearly 200 people, mostly Han Chinese, were killed in rioting.
Xinhua said a preliminary investigation into Tuesday's incident indicated the suspects were terrorists who were plotting violent attacks.
But Dilxat Raxit, a representative for the World Uighur Congress, an umbrella organization for Uighur groups, told the BBC the killing of a young Uighur by Chinese "armed personnel" sparked the attack.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
A Spanish version of the site reaches millions of readers in Latin America and beyond.
UPI was founded in 1907 by E.W. Scripps as the United Press (UP). It became known as UPI after a merger with the International News Service in 1958, which was founded in 1909 by William Randolph Hearst. Today, UPI is owned by News World Communications.
It is based in Washington, D.C., and Boca Raton, Fla.
Copyright © 2016 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events.
We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.