2013-01~06
http://en.rian.ru/world/20130429/180895315.html

Russian, Chinese Policemen Jointly Solve Kidnapping Case
MOSCOW, April 29 (RIA Novosti) - Law enforcers of Russia and China jointly detained four suspects for allegedly kidnapping and killing two Chinese nationals in Russia’s Siberian city of Irkutsk last year, Xinhua news agency reported.
The agency reported citing the Chinese Ministry of Public Security that two victims from northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region were kidnapped in Russia in April of 2012. Abductors demanded a ransom of 4 million yuan ($649,000).
Although Chinese relatives of the victims paid an initial ransom sum of 1.6 million yuan, the two men were later found dead along a river in Irkutsk.
According to the agency, all four suspects in the case are Chinese nationals. Two of them were detained in China late last year, while two more were arrested in Russia and convoyed to China this year.
The fact of registration and authorization of users on Sputnik websites via users’ account or accounts on social networks indicates acceptance of these rules.
Users are obliged abide by national and international laws. Users are obliged to speak respectfully to the other participants in the discussion, readers and individuals referenced in the posts.
The websites’ administration has the right to delete comments made in languages ​​other than the language of the majority of the websites’ content.
In all language versions of the sputniknews.com websites any comments posted can be edited.
The administration has the right to block a user’s access to the page or delete a user’s account without notice if the user is in violation of these rules or if behavior indicating said violation is detected.
Users can initiate the recovery of their account / unlock access by contacting the moderators at moderator@sputniknews.com
If the moderators deem it possible to restore the account / unlock access, it will be done.
In the case of repeated violations of the rules above resulting in a second block of a user’s account, access cannot be restored.