2013-01~06
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/10149884/Terrorists-attack-police-station-in-restive-Chinese-province.html

'Terrorists' attack police station in restive Chinese province - Telegraph
The Global Times newspaper said casualties were “still being counted” after rioters on motorcycles launched a noon assault on the building in the city of Hotan.
The incident came just two days after at least 35 people were killed during bloody clashes in Turpan, a city in the same province in China’s extreme west.
State news agency Xinhua said eleven rioters were gunned down by police and another four were captured after armed groups targeted government installations and a building site on Wednesday morning, torching police cars and killing 24 people.
Almost half of Xinjiang’s 22 million-strong population is composed of Uighurs, a largely Muslim, Turkic-speaking group who often oppose the growing influx of Han Chinese immigrants.
Uighur rights groups criticise Beijing’s alleged attempts to restrict their religious and cultural freedoms and argue that the Uighurs have largely been excluded from the region’s economic boom.

China and Britain have their differences but they also have a lot to offer each other


Seven years in Tibet: 2 million 'displaced' by Chinese relocation policy

Xinjiang has been the scene of repeated inter-ethnic clashes, including confrontations between Han Chinese and Uighurs in July 2009 that left nearly 200 dead.
In a lengthy editorial on Saturday, the state-run Global Times blamed this week’s violence on “am absolute minority in Xinjiang” and said the incidents represented “a rare situation”.
“There is zero possibility that Xinjiang’s overall social stability will be overturned,” the newspaper argued. “China, including Xinjiang, is experiencing unprecedented prosperity and we must have full confidence that we can solve the problems we are confronted with.”
On Friday, the Uighur American Association disputed the government’s account of Wednesday’s violence calling for “an independent verification of events”.
In a statement, its president Alim Seytoff questioned the government’s claims that “terrorists” were behind the violence and blamed the troubles on the “devastating effects of [Beijing’s] failing ethnic policies.” A spokesperson for the US State Department addressed the violence on Thursday saying Washington was “deeply concerned by the ongoing reports of discrimination and restrictions against Uighurs and Muslims in China.” US criticism was rejected by Beijing. A spokesperson for the Chinese Foreign Ministry said Beijing was “unsatisfied” with the US’ comments.
“Western public opinion, standing upon Western interest, may make use of the incidents to try to fan the flames of trouble. We should ignore those noises,” said the Global Times editorial on Saturday.

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
