2013-01~06
http://zeenews.india.com/news/south-asia/china-to-raise-issue-of-terror-camps-in-pakistan-with-sharif_859735.html

China to raise issue of terror camps in Pakistan with Sharif | Zee News
Beijing: China will take up the issue of terror training camps for Uygur militants in Pakistan with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif who arrived here for a five-day maiden foreign visit after assuming office last month.
During his visit, Sharif will hold talks with President Xi Jinping, Premier Li Keiqiang and other senior leaders.
Sharif is accompanied by a 11-member high-level delegation that include senior ministers, Punjab and Balochistan Chief Ministers and top officials.
Establishment of an energy corridor and firming up of nuclear energy cooperation will also be discussed during talks with the top leadership.
Sharif opted to visit China for his maiden official foreign trip since assuming office in June as he struggles to address Pakistan`s crippling energy crisis and revive its ailing economy.
Ahead of Sharif`s visit, China`s restive Xinjiang province bordering PoK was rocked by violence, claiming the lives of 35 people.
The violence in the Muslim-majority province brought to the fore Beijing`s concerns that the Uygur militants of the separatist East Turkiministan Islamic Movement (ETIM) are being trained in terror camps in Pakistan.
Chinese official media highlighted Syrian government`s allegations that Uygur militants recruited by ETIM, an affiliate of Al-Qaeda were being trained in Pakistan to fight to oust Assad government in Syria.
One trained militant was caught in Xinjiang few days ago. "The recent resurgence of attacks in Pakistan and Xijiang province probably related to the uncertainty in Afghanistan which gives greater reason for China and Pakistan to cooperate more closely to deal with common threat of terrorism," current affairs commentator Victor Gao Zhikai, told the state run CCTV here today.
"If the Karzai government and Taliban failed to come to terms, the situation in Afghanistan will deteriorate and refuel terrorism and extremism in this part of the world," the expert said.
Answering a question on the issue, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said, "Regarding security situation in Pakistan, we know that Pakistan has made huge and hard efforts to fight terrorism, to maintain national security."
"We believe that the international community should help Pakistan overcome difficulties and meet challenges," she said.
DNA: Analysis of Shashi Tharoor's statement comparing Kanhaiya Kumar with Bhagat Singh
DNA: Truth behind "drunk policeman in metro" 2015 viral video