2013-01~06
http://www.theborneopost.com/2013/07/01/china-ramps-up-response-after-xinjiang-attacks/

China ramps up response after Xinjiang ‘attacks’ – BorneoPost Online | Borneo , Malaysia, Sarawak Daily News | Largest English Daily In Borneo
URUMQI, China: China has vowed to ramp up patrols and “crack down upon terrorist groups” after staging large military exercises in the ethnically-divided Xinjiang region following clashes that killed at least 35 people.
Beijing also dispatched two high-ranking officials to the far western region Saturday following a top level Communist Party meeting presided over by President Xi Jinping.
“We will step up actions to crack down upon terrorist groups and extremist organisations and track the wanted,” Yu Zhengsheng, a member of the party’s Politburo Standing Committee, said after arriving in the Xinjiang capital Urumqi, Xinhua news agency reported late Saturday.
China often labels outbreaks of sporadic unrest in the region as terrorism — claims denied by rights groups for the mostly Muslim Uighur minority who blame unrest on economic inequality and religious repression.
Meng Jianzhu, another senior party official, was also in Urumqi making “detailed anti-terror arrangements”, it said.
Meng also called for “24 hour patrols (in) all weather conditions” according to a report by the state news agency yesterday. Their visit and the exercises suggest Beijing sees maintaining stability as a priority ahead of the fourth anniversary on July 5 of riots in Urumqi between members of Uighur and Han Chinese communities which left around 200 dead.
Saturday’s exercises saw large sections of the city shut down as military vehicles took to the streets with at least 1,000 personnel from the People’s Armed Police, part of China’s armed forces responsible for law enforcement and internal security during peacetime.
The state run Global Times newspaper yesterday described the exercises as “ceremonies… to support the fight against terrorism”.
“Every year come July 5, there are more patrols, and the armed police force is strengthened, but not of this scale,” Wang Tingxiang, a Han Chinese resident of Urumqi told AFP during the exercise.
“All the ethnic groups here get along. It’s all good here. Most of the ethnic clashes have probably got something to do with the outside world,” he added, repeating a commonly-used official line from Beijing that separatists from outside of China were partly responsible for unrest.
State-run media on Saturday blamed more than 100 people it branded “terrorists” for sparking “riots” in Xinjiang. — AFP