2016-01~02
http://www.todayonline.com/world/hong-kong-independence-goes-fringe-cause-contender

Hong Kong independence goes from fringe cause to contender | TODAYonline
HONG KONG – On the sixth floor of a commercial building in Hong Kong’s semi-industrial Kowloon East is an office stuffed with the paraphernalia of protest. Megaphones lie on the floor next to piles of pamphlets, backpacks and leftover red and gold Lunar New Year decorations.
In a corner is a makeshift radio-and-television studio with chairs lined up facing a camera. A white backdrop is festooned with the gold logo of Civic Passion, a party advocating independence for Hong Kong whose leader, Mr Wong Yeung-tat, said he was beaten by police during a protest that descended into a riot earlier this month. Mr Wong joined the fracas after police fired two warning shots to ward off surging protesters.
Wong and his supporters are among a small, but growing number of voices calling for Hong Kong’s independence, a position that could put the former British colony on a collision course with Beijing if it acquires broader support. Some of the so-called localists favour a more forceful response than the largely peaceful 2014 Occupy protests, shocking the city when they escalated a Feb. 9 confrontation with police into a riot that injured more than 90 officers.
“Hong Kong people feel there is no way out,” said Mr Wong, a 36-year-old former film script writer who founded Civic Passion in 2012 to fight against what he sees as China’s growing encroachment. “We don’t have democracy or human rights.”
A test for the movement will come on Sunday, when the leader of another pro-independence party, Mr Edward Leung Tin-kei, competes for a seat on the city’s Legislative Council. Leung was arrested on a rioting charge after the clashes and released on bail.
“Some young people are being drawn to these groups that really want to push back at what they see as a threat to their way of life,” said Prof James Rice, an assistant professor of philosophy and law at Hong Kong’s Lingnan University. They’re fed up with the inability of Hong Kong’s pro-democracy parties to stand up to the Beijing-backed local administration, he said.
BLAMED FOR RIOTS
The riot involved more than 700 people and police have arrested more than 70 suspected participants. Beijing’s top representative in Hong Kong, Mr Zhang Xiaoming, branded participants as “radical separatists” who were "inclined toward terrorism." That puts them in the same category as the most extreme dissidents of Tibet and Xinjiang, where reports of deadly clashes between Communist Party security forces and ethnic minorities are common. 
How much support Hong Kong’s localists command and how the riots have coloured views about them is difficult to gauge. While their rallies usually attract a few hundred, they have strong support on university campuses, with a localist group winning more than 60 percent of the vote in a student union election at the Chinese University of Hong Kong this week. Localists helped organize protests against parallel traders from the mainland last year that led Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying and mainland authorities to restrict cross-border trips.
A victory for Mr Edward Leung, a leader of Hong Kong Indigenous, in Sunday’s election would shock the political establishment. His group has been blamed for inciting the riots with a Facebook post summoning supporters to Mong Kok with face-masks, water and protective gear to protest what was seen as a crackdown on street vendors. 
LEGISLATIVE ELECTION
"Take back our future and our Hong Kong," Mr Edward Leung, who’s not related to the chief executive, said at a election rally last Saturday, according to the South China Morning Post. "We have no connection to the vested interest in the old system.”