2016-01~02
http://news.nationalpost.com/news/canada/canadian-preacher-jailed-in-china-on-terrorism-charges-has-life-sentence-shortened

Canadian preacher jailed in China on terrorism charges has life sentence shortened | National Post
Joseph Brean | February 4, 2016 12:17 AM ETMore from Joseph Brean | @JosephBrean
Huseyin Celil, 46, the Canadian Uighur Muslim preacher arrested in Uzbekistan in 2006, extradited to China and sentenced to life on terrorism charges, has had his prison sentence lowered to an unspecified fixed term, thought to be about 20 years.
The move reportedly follows Celil’s completion of a re-education program and his public repentance at a prison rally.
Celil is one of 11 members of the minority Muslim Uighur ethnic group whose sentences have been similarly lowered, in some cases to as little as six months, in what is being interpreted as both a conciliatory move toward Canada, and a reflection of Beijing’s confidence that it has solidified its rule over the restive Xinjiang region, in China’s far northwest.
John Kamm, an American activist for Chinese prisoners, who has advocated for Celil for many years, told The Associated Press the move is “a step in the right direction” that should be imitated across the region.
Celil came to Canada in 2001, having fled persecution in China through Kyrgyzstan to Turkey, where he was designated a refugee and allowed to settle near Toronto in Burlington, Ont.
Chinese police had arrested him several years earlier, and always maintained he is the same person who went by the name Guler Dilaver, who was similarly wanted for terrorism. Celil’s supporters have suggested this is a case of mistaken identity.
Celil’s imprisonment was a dominant theme in the especially strained relations between China and Canada’s previous Conservative government, which regularly protested the preacher’s treatment.
When he returned to Uzbekistan in 2006, reportedly to get three of his seven children out of Xinjiang, he was arrested and spent months in jail, not allowed to contact his wife and children in Burlington. Neither China nor Uzbekistan recognize his Canadian citizenship. China does not recognize dual citizenship and has treated him as a Chinese national.
Celil was convicted in China of supporting the East Turkestan Islamic Movement extremist group, and later lost his appeals. Among his alleged crimes are a kidnapping and a murder on behalf of the group, designated a terrorist organization by many countries, including the United States, but not Canada.
His life sentence came after assurances to Canada, brokered through diplomatic channels, that the death penalty would not be applied.
Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress exile group, told The Associated Press that the sentence reductions are a “political propaganda tool” meant to divert attention from Beijing’s repressive policies. Those policies are known as the “Strike Hard” approach.
That involves a campaign to boost security and speed cultural assimilation of Uighurs, along with the more targeted deradicalization programs in prisons, about which little is known.
The move closely follows the indictment of Kevin Garratt, who did aid work and ran a café near the North Korean border, for allegedly spying on behalf of Canada. He was arrested in August, 2014, with his wife, Julia, who was released on bail last February.
© 2016 National Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.