2016-01~02
http://jakartaglobe.beritasatu.com/terrorism/police-make-fourth-arrest-bandung-nye-terror-plot/

Police Make Fourth Arrest in Bandung NYE Terror Plot | Jakarta Globe
West Java Police inspect a car belonging to TV One television station that was destroyed by a low-powered explosive on New Year's Day in Bandung. (Antara Photo/Novrian Arbi)
Jakarta. The National Police's counter-terrorism squad Densus 88 arrested a fourth suspect linked to the New Year's Eve blast in Bandung, with the group reportedly plotting to launch another attack against a Shiite figure.
“[On Tuesday], we caught another in Bandung identified as U.B.,” National Police Spokesman Insp. Gen. Anton Charliyan said at the National Police Headquarter in Jakarta on Tuesday.
Police earlier arrested three suspects, one in North Jakarta's Koja area and two more in Ciwidey, Bandung, over the weekend.
Densus 88, aided by the West Java Provincial Police, raided the house of the first suspect, M.S., on Jalan Mengger Girang in the Pasirluyu area of Bandung on Sunday afternoon.
Anton said two of the four are ethnically Uighur, a Chinese minority hailing from the Xinjiang region in far-western China.
The spokesman said police believe five Uighurs have entered Indonesia to train and join militant cells.
Another Uighur was arrested by police in Bekasi, on the outskirts of Jakarta, where he was training to be a suicide bomber. The remaining two are still at large.
Indonesian officials have teamed up with their Chinese counterparts to stem the flow of ethnic Uighur militants seeking to join Islamist jihadists here. Indonesia's most wanted terrorist fugitive Santoso issued a call last year to the group to join his band of fighters.
Violence in energy-rich Xinjiang on the borders of Central Asia has killed hundreds in recent years, with rights group saying that much of the unrest can be traced back to frustration at controls over the Uighurs’ culture and religion, prompting most to flee repression.
Anton said police had discovered plans and documents indicating that the four was behind the low-powered explosive which set off during the New Year's celebration in the West Java capital's main square Alun-Alun.
"From the group we have acquired plans and sketches of [targeted] areas. One of the targets is a Shia figure. We will not mention the name [of the target]," he said.
Bandung is home to renowned Shiite figure Jalaluddin Rakhmat, although police have refused to confirm he is the target. Police were also unwilling to divulge how the group was planning to attack the figure.