2016-01~02
http://www.laprensasa.com/309_america-in-english/3582004_china-accuses-communist-party-members-in-xinjiang-of-supporting-terrorism.html

China accuses Communist party members in Xinjiang of supporting terrorism :: La Prensa :: America in English
Chinese special forces carrying Type 97 assault rifles during an anti-terrorism drill in norwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. EFE
Beijing, Jan 25 (EFE).- A government official in China's northwestern Xinjiang province, where Beijing claims terrorist groups are active, has said some members of the Communist Party of China (CPC) support, and even organize, terrorist activities.
"There are party members who are being 'double-faced' on issues of anti-separation, anti-infiltration and anti-terrorism. Some officials have even supported, participated in and organized terror acts," said Xu Hairong, secretary of Xinjiang's Commission for Discipline Inspection.
However, he also said that "most of the party members in Xinjiang are determined and clear-minded" in the fight against terrorism, the South China Morning Post newspaper reported Monday, citing an article from a newspaper affiliated with the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, published Sunday.
Xu did not give details about the party members allegedly involved in terrorist activities, but said Chinese authorities remain firm in their commitment to crack down on these organizations, and that it was a long-term mission.
Measures would be taken against officials "not serious about fighting the threat," he added.
Last year, Xinjiang authorities tackled 672 cases of political discipline violations, Xu said.
The statements come after the Chinese government warned of rising risks of terrorist attacks in the country due to a surge in extremism globally, and called to firmly tackle the violence in Xinjiang.
The communist East Asian nation was struck twice by jihadi attacks last year.
In November, the Islamic State (IS) executed its first Chinese hostage Fan Jinghui in Iraq, and shortly after three Chinese citizens were killed in a terrorist attack at a hotel in Bamako in Mali.
The autonomous northwestern territory of Xinjiang is home to the Muslim Uighur minority, and there are frequent clashes between them and Han Chinese residents, who represent the country's majority ethnic group with political clout.
China blames separatists from Xinjiang for instigating the clashes and suspects some Uighurs of being involved with terrorist organizations, including the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which is linked to other foreign radical Islamic groups such as the IS.
But Uighur associations based abroad deny these charges and attribute the violence in Xinjiang to the repressive Chinese regime imposed on the minority community, which has in recent years seen an exodus of refugees fleeing persecution by authorities.
On Jan. 1, the country's first anti-terror law came into force, generating controversy over the wide range of powers given to the central government and the ban on disseminating information related to terrorist incidents.