2016-01~02
http://english.cri.cn/4926/2016/02/03/178s915738.htm

轻松调频 CRI EZfm，from Beijing for China
The Authorities in northwest China's Xinjiang have reduced the sentences of 11 offenders convicted of jeopardizing national security.
According to a decision by the region's higher people's court, seven of the offenders who had been given life terms were instead jailed from 19 and half years to 20 years.
Among the seven were criminals who instigated secessionist activities or participated in violent terrorist attacks in Xinjiang.
The other four prisoners had their jail terms shortened by six months from the initial 8 to 15 years.
One of the convicts, Memet Tohti Memet Rozi, had close contact with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement and the Taliban terrorist group. Court investigations found he set up terrorist training bases in Afghanistan, where native citizens of Xinjiang were trained to become militants.
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi has met with the top leadership in northern African nation of Mauritania.
In meeting with President Ameenah Gurib-Fakim and Prime Minister Anerood Jugnauth, Wang Yi says the Chinese side is willing to step up assistance to Mauritania in areas such as technology and economics.
The Mauritanian side says it wants to increase ties with China in areas such as agriculture, tourism, climate change and marine economics.
Mauritania is located on the Atlantic coast in the far west of Africa's Sahara region.
Mauratania is one of 4 stops Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi is making as part of his current African tour.
China's top political advisor has vowed that the mainland will work to maintain peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait and contain so-called "Taiwan independence".
Yu Zhengsheng was speaking at an annual meeting of central and local officials in charge of Taiwan affairs.
He emphasized that the peaceful development of cross-Strait ties is the correct path.
Yu Zhengsheng also says the central government will make efforts to promote economic integration across the Taiwan Strait and try to benefit as many small businesses, farmers and fishermen as possible.
China is lowering the minimum deposit for home purchases in most cities to spur the real estate market.
In cities where there's no home purchase restrictions, down payments for first homes financed by bank loans can go down to 20 percent.
China's property market took a downturn in 2014 due to weak demand and a supply glut.
The cooling continued into 2015 and affected sectors ranging from steel, cement, furniture to home appliances.
The United Nations has confirmed that North Korea has informed the UN of a plan to launch an earth-observation satellite later this month.
A UN spokesperson said the UN had been "carefully monitoring the developments" and are in close contact with "interested parties and international organizations".
The White House has called on the international community to take swift action to try to prevent North Korea from conducting the launch.
Texas has reported the first locally transmitted case of Zika virus in the United States.
Authorities say the patient was infected with the virus after having sexual contact with an ill individual who returned from a Zika affected country.
Meanwhile, both Ireland and Australia have individually reported two confirmed cases of Zika virus and patients have recovered from the infection.
Zika, transmitted primarily through mosquito, is believed to cause birth defects such as microcephaly, or small heads.
Former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has declared victory in Iowa's Democratic Caucuses.
Clinton narrowly edged out Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders by a margin of 49.8 to 49.6.
The victory is one of the most narrow in Iowa's Democratic primary history.
Iowa's caucuses are more symbolic than important, as it is the first state to hold the vote to pick candidates from the two major parties for November's election.
On the Republican side, it was Texas Senator Ted Cruz pulling out a victory in Iowa over New York billionaire Donald Trump.
New Hampshire is set to hold the next primary vote this coming Tuesday.
Nine Migrants, Including Two Babies Drowned Off Turkish Coast: Coastguard
Nine people, including two babies, were found drowned Tuesday off the coast of western Turkey after a boat carrying people to Greece partly capsized.
The Turkish coast guard says two people were rescued swimming to the shore.
A crackdown on illegal crossings and the dangerous winter conditions have failed to deter tens of thousands from attempting to cross the Mediterranean in the first few weeks of the year.
The International Organization for Migration says more than 360 people died in the Mediterranean last month.
Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi has denied reports that it will sell smartphones in the United States.
Earlier reports said US Mobile, a small carrier in America, is vending a few Xiaomi devices online starting on Monday.
In a statement, Xiaomi says it is yet to enter the highly competitive US market.
Xiaomi is the biggest smartphone maker in China in terms of shipment.
The Beijing-based company launched an online store in the US last year but it only offers a small selection of accessories such as earphones and fitness bands.   