2016-01~02
http://english.cri.cn/4926/2016/02/03/178s915764.htm

轻松调频 CRI EZfm，from Beijing for China
The Authorities in northwest China's Xinjiang have reduced the sentences of 11 offenders convicted of jeopardizing national security.
According to a decision by the region's higher people's court, seven of the offenders who had been given life terms were instead jailed from 19 and half years to 20 years.
Among the seven were criminals who instigated secessionist activities or participated in violent terrorist attacks in Xinjiang.
The other four prisoners had their jail terms shortened by six months from the initial 8 to 15 years.
One of the convicts, Memet Tohti Memet Rozi, had close contact with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement and the Taliban terrorist group. Court investigations found he set up terrorist training bases in Afghanistan, where native citizens of Xinjiang were trained to become militants.
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi has met with the top leadership in northern African nation of Mauritania.
In meeting with President Ameenah Gurib-Fakim and Prime Minister Anerood Jugnauth, Wang Yi says the Chinese side is willing to step up assistance to Mauritania in areas such as technology and economics.
The Mauritanian side says it wants to increase ties with China in areas such as agriculture, tourism, climate change and marine economics.
Mauratania is one of 4 stops Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi is making as part of his current African tour.
South Korean authorities are warning of harsh repurcussions against the North Korea if it launches a ballistic missile.
This, after Pyongyang notified the United Nations of its plan to launch a satellite sometime later this month.
Seoul is warning of a "harsh price" from the international community against Pyongyang if it goes ahead with its planned launch.
The South Korean Cabinet has held an emergency meeting to discuss North Korea's planned missile launch.
Texas has reported the first locally transmitted case of Zika virus in the United States.
Authorities say the patient was infected with the virus after having sexual contact with an ill individual who returned from a Zika affected country.
Meanwhile, both Ireland and Australia have individually reported two confirmed cases of Zika virus and patients have recovered from the infection.
Chilean authorities on Tuesday also confirmed the first case of Zika virus in the country.
Zika, transmitted primarily through mosquito, is believed to cause birth defects such as microcephaly, or small heads.
European Council Chief Unveils Reform Proposals to Keep Britain In EU
The head of the European Council has unveiled a set of proposals to try to keep Britain inside the European Union.
The proposals, outlined by Donald Tusk, would allow the UK to immediately suspend welfare payments to EU migrants if the people of Britian vote to stay in the bloc.
The proposals will also allow the UK, in conjunction with a majority of other member states, new powers to block legislation proposed by the European Commission.
The UK would also be able to opt out of further political integration among the current 28-member bloc.
David Cameron's government has threatened to ask UK voters to reject EU membership in a nation-wide referendum the Cameron administration has promised to hold before 2017.
Former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has declared victory in Iowa's Democratic Caucuses.
Clinton narrowly edged out Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders by a margin of 49.8 to 49.6.
Iowa is the first state to hold the vote to pick candidates from the two major parties for November's election.
On the Republican side, it was Texas Senator Ted Cruz pulling out a victory in Iowa over New York billionaire Donald Trump.
New Hampshire is set to hold the next primary vote this coming Tuesday.
The Chinese government says it's welcoming a new Malaysian visa policy towards Chinese tourists.
Malaysian authorities are planning to grant visa exemptions for certian Chinese tourists as a measure to boost tourism.
Visas will not be required for Chinese tourists travelling to Malaysia for a period of no more than 15 days starting from March 1st to the end of the year.
NASA's Deep Space Rocket to Launch Small Satellites in First Flight
NASA has announced its new plans for its latest deep space mission.
The new Space Launch System will carry 13 small satellites, along with an unmanned Orion spacecraft, as part of a launch in 2018.
NASA says the mission will be to evaluate the rocket system ahead of a manned Orion launch.
NASA says sending up the small satellites in the next launch will help observers as they prepare for deep space missions, including the proposed journey to Mars.
China's Evergrande Sign Atletico Madrid Striker Martinez On 42 Million Euros
Chinese Super League champions Guangzhou Evergrande have signed with Atletico Madrid striker Jackson Martinez on a 4-year contract.
The deal, said to be worth 45-million US dollars, is the most expensive transfer in the world so far as part of the current winter transfer window.
The Colombian striker will join the Asian Champions League champions in Dubai next week for winter training.
29-year old Martinez had just moved to Atletico in July for around 35 million euros.
However, he's struggled in Spain, only scoring twice in 15 La Liga appearances.