2016-01~02
http://www.thailandnews.net/index.php/sid/241362487

Thailand News - Two Uyghur Suspects Plead Innocent in Bangkok Bombing


Appearing in a Thai military court, Adem Karadag, 31, and Yusufu Meiraili, 28, both identified themselves as Uyghurs from Urumqi in China's Xinjiang special zone.


Karadag's lawyer claimed he entered Thailand on Aug. 21, days after the attack, so could not be responsible.


He also alleged that unidentified officials tortured Karadag in custody with water boarding, dog intimidation and a threat to return him to Chinese authorities.


"The said actions were aimed at forcing him to admit that he was the suspected bomber who planted the bomb seen in security camera records," lawyer Chuchart Kanpai told reporters.


Uyghur and English translators were present as Karadag and Mieraili heard the charges against them and pleaded innocent.


Mieraili challenged the court for his incarceration. "It is not the right thing to have detained a Muslim for too long," Meiraili said through an English translator.


Karadag, aka Bilal Mohammad, was arrested on Aug. 29, 2015, after police said they had found bomb-making materials at an apartment in Bangkok's suburban Nongjok district. He was charged with offenses ranging from premeditated killing and bomb possession to illegal entry into Thailand, and could face a death sentence if convicted.


Mieraili was arrested on Sept. 1, 2015, while attempting to flee to neighboring Cambodia, police allege. Investigators claim he was attempting to acquire materials to make bombs. He could face a death sentence as well if convicted.


In the days following their arrests, both men participated in police-staged reenactments of the alleged events leading to the bombing.


The attack at the Hindu shrine, popular with both Thais and foreign tourists, took place during the busy evening rush time. A security camera captured footage of a man leaving a backpack on a bench at the shrine moments before the blast.


A pipe bomb explosion the next day near Sathorn passenger pier, some five miles from the shrine, caused no injuries.


In September, then-police chief Pol. Gen. Somyos Poompanmuang told a press conference that a Uyghur group had carried out the attack to wreak revenge on Thai authorities for clamping down on them.


"We believe the motive behind this incident stemmed from government officials arresting or cracking down on a human trafficking ring," he said at the time.


In June, Thai authorities forcibly repatriated nearly 100 Uyghurs to China, drawing criticism and protests from rights activists and Uyghur advocates who say the Muslim minority suffers harsh repression in China.


The next court hearings in the Erawan case are scheduled between April 20 and 22.


Thai investigators claim as many as 15 more suspects are wanted for their roles in the attacks, including a man who hurled a bomb near the Sathorn pier.


Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Following Chinese tourists' chaotic stampede and subsequent gluttonous gorging of piles of prawns at a buffet in Thailand, Phuket will be holding an etiquette course for guides working with ...
NAY PYI TAW, Myanmar - Myanmar's new president-elect told lawmakers Monday that plans to create a new ethnic affairs ministry were "vital" for the conflict-torn nation, in his maiden ...
Comments Your feedback is important to us! We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article. Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties ...
The tourist was identified as Perez Neftali who rented the room since March 10. Officials of Udon Mansion apartment told police that the man was staying alone. Police ...
A THAI driver who gained notoriety after causing the deaths of nine people five years ago has been accused by Thai authorities of breaching the conditions of her probation, which has kept her out of ...
SYDNEY - Environmental groups Monday urged greater action on climate change after the government declared the highest alert level over an epidemic of coral bleaching in the pristine northern reaches ...
The service was disrupted after a Suvarnabhumi-Phayathai train's electric system malfunctioned before it reached the Ramkhamhaeng station. Some passengers got out of the ...
MAJURO, Marshall Islands - Battered by massive cyclones, El Nino-fuelled drought and swollen king tides, fragile Pacific island nations vulnerable to climate change are leading the charge in ...
Thailand’s latest draft constitution is a push by the Junta to cement its hold on power, effectively shattering the country’s democracy. While the Junta ostensibly ...
Thailand’s power peak in 2016 is expected to hit 28,500 megawatt, according to an estimate by the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand under the assumption that ...
The Thai military junta says it understands European concerns over the constitution drafting underway, but says it intends to restore democracy. ';The government has no ...
A power breakdown prompted an Airport Rail Link train to get stuck in the rail Monday morning before panic passengers exit through the emergency exits after they unsuccessfully tried to break the ...
London, United Kingdom: Leaving the European Union could cause a "serious shock" to Britain's economy, with the risk of losing almost one million jobs, according to a CBI business ...
WASHINGTON - A 6.6-magnitude earthquake hit off the east coast of Russia's Kamchatka Peninsula Monday but was not expected to cause damage or fatalities, US experts ...
OVER?the last few decades Thailand has attracted expatriates to the country to work, stay long periods of time to explore the country, or retire. Thailand attracts many young ...
Mumbai: As Indians are gearing up for the long weekend break on account of Holi and Good Friday, short- haul destinations like Dubai and Thailand have topped the list of popular global destinations. ...
" Campaign. This introduces a green approach to the market, focusing on "innovation to conserve energy and protect the environment, as Electrolux strives to lead in healthier home ...
LIMA - The United Nation's cultural body Unesco has added 20 new sites to its network of protected biosphere nature reserves, including two in Canada and two in ...
SYDNEY - Australian authorities said Sunday coral bleaching occurring in the World Heritage-listed Great Barrier Reef had become "severe", the highest alert level, as sea temperatures ...
He said yesterday that the new government would heed public opinion before making the next move and if the project does not win public approval, it would not be resumed. "We ...
Thailand News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Beaches, exotic temples, ruins, good food, world-class services, snorkeling and scuba diving, hill-tribe culture, trekking, nightlife, exceptional handicrafts, classical dance, friendly people and beautiful scenery are among the main attractions of Thailand.
Thailand will appeal to anyone who is interested in beach vacations or archaeology, but especially to those who want to explore exotic cultures without sacrificing modern conveniences.
Sydney - Two pieces of debris found in Mozambique have arrived in Australia for experts to determine if they came from missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, an official says.
A huge search for the ...
Kunshan (China), March 21 (IANS) India were placed in a relatively easy group in the women's section but the men's team did not prove to be as lucky at the draw for the prestigious Thomas and Uber ...
Shillong, March 21 (IANS) Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday admitted that there was a need to strengthen security along the international border in the northeastern region to curb ...
Bangkok, March 20 (IANS) A Thai anti-corruption commission will investigate police officials who were accused of mishandling a probe into a car crash that killed two students last week, the media ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
CAIRO, Egypt - Egypt’s Interior Ministry has claimed that the death toll from a mortar attack has risen to 15. The ministry pointed out that all the victims are policemen, including three ...
PRETORIA, South Africa— South Africa’s ruling party, the African National Congress, on Sunday said it had full confidence in President Jacob Zuma in the wake of mounting allegations of political ...
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia - Saudi Arabia’s leading electrical product manufacturer, Alfanar Group has announced that it is close to finalising the procedures for the acquisition of Germany-based ...
WASHINGTON – The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by temporarily easing trade sanctions slapped earlier this month against the Chinese telecom equipment and smartphone ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
SYDNEY, Australia - The sleeker, two-door version of the Mercedes-AMG C63 S is set to hit the roads down under in June 2016. AMG’s C63 Coupe is reportedly priced from $162,400 and reviews have ...
© 1999 - 2016 Thailand News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)