2016-01~02
http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/feat/archives/2016/02/05/2003638858

Art exhibition listings - Taipei Times
Asia Art Center II is currently exhibiting the works of Xinjiang-born Chinese artist Qin Feng (秦風) in the aptly named exhibition, Qin Feng Solo Exhibition (秦風個展). Qin, who started his career dabbling in the Chinese avant-garde, went on to live in both Germany and the US, where he became known for his ability to synthesize elements of Western expressionism with Chinese ink painting. He paints with acrylic on linen, or ink on cotton paper, the result of which gives his work a quality that’s delicate and stoic at the same time. His choice of large, circular motifs is meant to convey a belief in the power of wisdom, as well as the idea of civilizations being cyclical. Besides that, his gargantuan-sized paintings are also pretty to stare at.
■ Asia Art Center II (亞洲藝術中心二館), 93, Lequn 2nd Rd, Taipei City (台北市樂群二路93號), tel: (02) 8502-7939. Open Tuesdays to Sundays from 10am to 6:30pm
From using the museum’s facade to project “apparitions” to hosting artists who use face masks to create gun sculptures, MOCA, Taipei has been doing an exceptional job at continually introducing new media and new ideas. Their latest exhibition is pretty cool too. Held at a tunnel in Zhongshan MRT Station, The Image of Virtuality (空相) features a video presentation by Ma Chao (馬超) and will be displayed across five television screens. It uses Russian artist Wassily Kandinsky’s 1938 painting Colorful Ensemble (a beautifully convoluted piece of abstract art) as inspiration and focuses on the relationship between abstract painting and digital art, especially their conceptual overlaps. The ultimate goal, the exhibition notes state, is to convey an “appearance of nothingness.” It’ll be interesting and puzzling to see how Ma will manage to achieve that.
■ MOCA Video Underground (藝術一條街), Zhongshan Metro Mall Exit R9 TV Corridor (捷運中山地下街 R9 出口電視牆), tel: (02) 2552-3720
The works of famed UK web animator and occasional music video director Cyriak Harris are currently on display at MOCA, Taipei. The exhibition, Hyperplasia — Mutation (增生— 異變), consists of a selection of eight of Harris’ best (and creepiest) works since 2007, including one where he takes an image of his face and replicates it numerous times, mimicking the manner in which abnormal cells replicate. Spoiler alert: there’s also a lot of deformed sheep and clones of cats and teddy bears in his animated shorts. In other words, he’s good at introducing disturbing themes through the use of cute, furry animals. Maybe he does it to poke fun at social ills or maybe he’s just a little kooky, but it’s safe to say that this exhibition isn’t for the light-hearted.
■ Museum of Contemporary Art, Taipei (台北當代藝術館, MOCA), 39 Changan W Rd, Taipei City (台北市長安西路39號), tel: (02) 2552-3720. Open Tuesdays to Sundays from 10am to 6pm
The National Museum of History is currently hosting Taiwan’s first-ever large scale exhibition of the works of late American artist and social activist Keith Haring. The exhibition, Keith Haring: Multiplexism (普普‧塗鴉凱斯哈林特展), includes a vast selection of Haring’s pop art-style paintings from his cheerful and bold pieces in the early ‘80s to his more distressing (but still colorful) work leading up to his HIV diagnosis in 1988. His work was not only introspective, but it also served as social commentary on New York City street life in the 80s. The griminess of the city and the struggle to survive is beautifully conveyed in the bold, convoluted lines and intertwining human figures of Haring’s work. Haring, who was openly gay, never shied away from politically-charged topics in his artwork. Sexuality was a constant theme and his later work seemed to have alluded to the AIDS epidemic.
Comments will be moderated. Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned.