2016-01~02
http://www.thestandard.com.hk/section-news.php?id=166193

Uygurs deny guilt in Thai shrine bombing - The Standard
Thai investigators had also compelled Bilal Mohammed to dress up and wear a wig so he resembled a CCTV image of the prime suspect in the blast, according to a statement issued on his behalf.
Mohammed, also known as Adem Karadag, and Yusufu Mieraili arrived barefoot, handcuffed and shackled at their plea hearing in a military court in the Thai capital yesterday. A judge read charges including premeditated murder and possession of illegal weapons to the pair through a Uygur translator.
Both said they were not guilty of the bombing charges, although Mohammed the suspected bomber admitted one charge of entering the country illegally.
A disconsolate-looking Mieraili added: "I'm not guilty ... but I've been in prison for six months."
The August 17 bomb killed 20 people, including two Hongkongers, and wounded scores more at a Bangkok shrine popular with ethnic Chinese tourists.
A convincing motive has yet to be established for an attack that dented Thailand's key tourist industry, spreading fear through a politically febrile country that is under military rule.
But speculation of a link to Thailand's deportation of Uygur migrants to the mainland a month before the bombing has refused to die down.
Police say the pair initially admitted their roles in the bombing. But Mohammed's lawyer told reporters his client had only confessed after torture and threats of deportation to China, where he feared his life would be in danger.
Mohammed, 31, a Chinese citizen from the Uygur ethnic minority, is accused of being the man seen in CCTV footage wearing a yellow T-shirt and placing a backpack at the Erawan Shrine moments before the explosion.
Mieraili, 26, also a Chinese Uygur, is accused of delivering the backpack bomb.
National police chief Chakthip Chaijinda said it was the "defendants' right" to retract their earlier confessions, but rejected any suggestions these were obtained under duress.
"We have witnesses and clear evidence to prosecute them," he said.
Mohammed was arrested in late August in a Bangkok suburb. Photographs released at the time showed him surrounded by bombmaking paraphernalia and dozens of fake Turkish passports.
Shortly after the arrest, his lawyer Schoochart Kanpai said Mohammed admitted carrying out the bombing on the orders of an apparent mastermind who remains at large.

 Trademark and Copyright Notice: Copyright 2016, The Standard Newspaper Publishing Ltd., and its related entities. All rights reserved.
 Use in whole or part of this site's content is prohibited. Use of this Web site assumes acceptance of the Terms of Use, Privacy Policy Statement
and Copyright Policy. Please also read our Ethics Statement.
