2016-01~02
http://www.southasiaanalysis.org/node/1937

New Law Signals China’s Intentions to accelerate its International Counter-Terrorism Cooperation | South Asia Analysis Group
Paper No. 6066                                Dated 28-Jan-2016
To deal with the increasing challenges from terrorism to its interests both at home and abroad, the People’s Republic of China (PRC) has enacted a new counter-terrorism law, stipulating inter alia formation of national and regional counter-terrorism agencies. The law contains a firm indication that the country is poised to give a big push to its international counter-terrorism cooperation; for countering the emerging grave threats to the global stability and prosperity from terrorist forces like the Islamic State, the indication should be welcome to the outside world. Nevertheless, China should make sure that its stated desire to be a part of global “united front” against terror is not motivated by self-interests but by interests common   to all affected nations. It must, especially, take a clear position against all cases of state sponsored terrorism.
With respect to the particular case of well-known Pakistan’s state-sponsored terrorism against India, it is being widely felt that the PRC has so far shown an inclination to give a clean chit to Islamabad administration and blame only non-state actors; on the contrary, the world knows that without support from some state organs in Pakistan, terrorist elements from that country cannot launch attacks in India, for e.g the one that happened in Pathankot. This being so, there are reasons to believe that China is becoming more and more sensitive to India’s terrorism concerns. In this regard, the progress seen in the recent Beijing- New Delhi talks on counter terrorism cooperation looks commendable. The talks should proceed further, on the basis of realization by the two sides that they can learn from each other as Jihadi elements of the same nature target both – in China’s Xinjiang and India’s Kashmir.  If talks lead to   China’s recognition of the indirect involvement of Pakistan state in terrorist acts against India and giving up accordingly of its pro-Pakistan stand held so far on terrorism issue, the same are certain to contribute to removing an irritant in Beijing-New Delhi relations; in a larger perspective, that will also favorably impact on eliminating the strategic mistrust as a whole, which continues to bedevil such relations till today.          
 The concept of “terrorism”, broadly understood in the present era as one denoting   acts of violence by the concerned actors against authorities perceived by them as misusing their powers, did not exist in Imperial China. It is true that during the rule by various dynasties, a justification was extended to resorting of political violence against rulers who lacked propriety and virtue and thus lost the ‘mandate of heaven (for e.g. overthrow of Shang dynasty by that of Zhou in 1046 BC); such past dynamics can be said to form the basis for contemporary Chinese understandings of political violence. Mao believed that violent social revolution by the working class against its class enemy is justified. But for People’s Republic of China (PRC), terrorist violence is different from political and social violence justified by Mao and needs to be fought.  It approaches terrorist violence in terms of the need to fight what is called “three evils” (ethnic separatism, religious extremism and violent terrorism) which in its view require to be crushed especially in Xinjiang and Tibet.
The PRC is facing terrorist violence in Xinjiang since early nineties. Ethnic riots, bombings and attacks on people are happening in that province regularly- incidents took place in 1992, 1997, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2013, 2014 and 2015.  In the July 2009 Urumqi riots, 140 were killed and 828 injured. The October 2013 incident of car ramming by an individual shocked the nation as it took place in Beijing’s Tian An Men square; it killed 5 and injured 40. The authorities charged that the attack was the work of the separatist East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM). The March 2014 Kunming Railway Station attack killed 29 and wounded 130 for which officials blamed Xinjiang separatists.  The riots which occurred  on July 28, 2014,  in Shache County (also known as Yarkand in the Uighur language) were  the biggest since the one witnessed in the capital Urumqi in 2009; nearly  100 were killed, and 215 arrested in Shache. On September 18, 2015, a separatist attack happened at the Sogan colliery in Aksu.
Incidents of separatist violence on the part of Tibetans included the one occurred in Lhasa in 1996, in Chengdu in 2002 and again in Lhasa in 2008. The last mentioned protest saw the authorities calling it a separatist act and arresting nearly 660 people. In September 2015, Aba country (Tibetan name- Ngaba) witnessed ethnic protests. Then, there are the continuing Tibetan self immolations since February 2009; its number stood at 138 as of April 11, 2015.  China calls 
the immolations "terrorism in disguise".  It also ascribes terrorist motives to Tibetan exiles who call for independence. In both the cases of Xinjiang and Tibet, the government has launched strike –hard campaigns to suppress the alleged terrorist tendencies.
The PRC is becoming more and more sensitive also to external factors involved in terrorism in Xinjiang and Tibet. It believes that the ETIM, already declared a terrorist outfit and banned in the country, has ties to the al-Qaeda, Pakistan Taliban and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan and has set up training camps modeled on those of Al Qaeda and the Islamic State (IS) in Pakistan's North Waziristan region.  China recognizes the presence of ETIM camps in Pakistan; the PRC foreign ministry spokesperson praised Pakistan’s contribution to counter terrorism by launching air raids on terror camps in North Waziristan (Xinhua, June 18, 2014). China must not be missing the IS declaration that the liberation of Islamic Xinjiang from China is its objective.  The PRC is certain to notice the seriousness of terrorism- related developments like the murder of three Chinese executives on November 20, 2015   when Islamic militants stormed a hotel in Bamako, the capital of Mali, the announcement of the IS in one of its online magazines about murdering a Chinese captive, Fan Jinghui[1],   terror attacks in Paris, the bombing of a Russian passenger jet over Egypt, and the executions of hostages done by the IS.
Since the year 2000, the United Nations General Assembly has been discussing a Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism; the process remains inconclusive and there is so far no definition of the term “terrorism”, acceptable to all countries. Admittedly, the UN Security Council Resolution No. 1566 of 2004  had very nearly defined the term; it referred to “considerations of a political, philosophical, ideological, racial, ethnic, religious or other similar nature” as motives behind terrorism acts.
In the circumstances mentioned above, the adoption of a document entitled “Counter-Terrorism Law of the People’s Republic of China” (herein after called the Law), at the 18th session of the   Standing Committee of National People’s Congress (Beijing, December 27, 2015) assumes significance. It is the first such law to be passed in the PRC.  The Law, to be effective from January 1, 2016, consists of 97 articles falling under 10 Chapters and states that it is “drafted in accordance with the Constitution in order to prevent and punish terrorist activities, strengthen counter-terrorism efforts and to safeguard the security of the state, the public, and the lives and properties of the people”. Its unofficial full English translation is at Appendix below for record.
The Law’s definition of the term “terrorism”, given below, deserves attention:
“Terrorism is any proposition or activity — that, by means of violence, sabotage or threat, generates social panic, undermines public security, infringes on personal and property rights, and menaces government organs and international organizations- with the aim to realize certain political and ideological purposes”.
Beijing’s stand is that in Xinjiang, “ethnic relations featuring equality, unity, mutual assistance and harmony are reflected in every aspect of social life”[2] and that in Tibet, “the people of all ethnic groups enjoy equality, unity, mutual support and harmony.” [3]  China seems to make clear on this basis that there are no "ethnic problems" in the two provinces, though others may challenge this formula. As such, the non-inclusion in the Law of ‘religious’ or ‘ethnic’ purposes as motives for terrorism, should not come as a surprise.   The country’s perception, as could be discerned from the Law’s definition of “terrorism”, seems to be that politics and ideology, not ethnicity, are main factors behind terrorism in Xinjiang and Tibet and that the State has been able to deal with them effectively. For the PRC, such factors may specifically include the demands for Eastern Turkestan Independence and   genuine autonomy for Tibet as well as the emerging IS threat to Xinjiang security with some Uighur separatists already joining it. [4]
While there is still no change in China’s pro-Pakistan policy on terrorism, of late, Beijing seems to be a conveying a subtle message to New Delhi that it may be willing to address India’s concerns on terrorism. As examples, with regard to the terrorist attack in India’s Pathankot air base, China has said[5] that “in dealing with counter terrorism issues, the Chinese side will continue to adopt a fact-based, objective and unbiased position and follow relevant resolutions and regulations of the UN Security Council." A similar message can also be seen in the Joint Statement[6] on internal security of India and China which marked new areas for cooperation in meeting counter-terrorism challenges, exchanging information on terror groups and streamlining channels of communication on security-related issues. Through the Statement, the two nations agreed to coordinate positions on anti-terrorism endeavors at regional and multilateral levels, support each other and promote exchanges by groups of counter-terrorism experts to discuss counter-terrorism cooperation.  
 To sum up, in response to increasing challenges from terrorism to its interests both at home and abroad, the PRC is coming under compulsions to enact necessary laws, form new counter-terrorism agencies and start an active round of counter-terrorism international collaboration. The last mentioned is certainly a good thing for the world, the stability and prosperity of which are being threatened by a fresh wave of terrorism from forces like the Islamic State. China should at the same time make sure that its desire to be a part of global “united front” against terror is not motivated by self-interests but by interests common   to all concerned nations. With respect to the particular case of Pakistan’s state-sponsored terrorism against India, the PRC seems to have an inclination to give a clean chit to Islamabad administration and blame only non-state actors whereas the world knows that without support from some state organs in Pakistan, terrorist elements from that country cannot launch attacks in India, for e.g in Pathankot. While noting the progress achieved in the recent New Delhi-Beijing talks on counter terrorism cooperation, we, in India, hope that China would ultimately realize the indirect involvement of Pakistan state in terrorism against India and accordingly give up its pro-Pakistan stand held so far on terrorism issue. Any positive response from Beijing on this count, will significantly contribute to reducing the level of strategic mistrust existing between China and India.      
(The writer, D.S. Rajan, is Distinguished Fellow, Chennai Centre for China studies, Chennai, India.email:dsrajan@gmail.com).                                                                       
Counter-Terrorism Law of the People's Republic of China (translated by chinalawtranslate,
(Passed at the 18th Session of the Standing Committee of the 12th National People's Congress on December 27, 2015).
      The State does not make compromises to terrorist organizations or offer asylum or give refugee status to any terrorist activity personnel. refugee status to any terrorist activity personnel.
      "Terrorist Activities" as used in this law refers to the following acts of a terrorist nature:
 (1) Activities that seriously harm society such as organizing, planning, preparing for, or carrying out any of the following conduct so as to cause injuries to persons, major property damage, damage to public facilities, or havoc in public order;
 (2) Advocating terrorism, inciting others to commit terrorist activities, unlawfully possessing items that advocate terrorism, or compelling others to wear or bear clothes or symbols that advocate terrorism in a public place;
       (3) Organizing, leading, or participating in a terrorist organization;
 (4) Providing information, capital, funding, labor, technology, venues or other support, assistance or facilitation for terrorist organizations, terrorist activity personnel, or the commission of terrorist activities;
       "Terrorist organization" as used in this Law refers to a criminal organization of three persons or more which has been formed to carry out terrorist activities.
  "Terrorist personnel" as used in this Law refers to people who carry out terrorist activities and members of terrorist organizations.
"Terrorist incident" used in this Law refers to terrorist activity in the process of       occurring or which has already occurred and which has caused or may cause significant harm to society.
The state opposes all forms of using distorted religious teachings or other means to incite hatred or discrimination, to advocate violence and other extremism; eliminating terrorism's ideological basis.
  Citizens ' freedom of religious belief and ethnic customs shall be respected in counter-    terrorism efforts, and any practices discriminating on the basis of geography, ethnicity or religion is prohibited.
      The people's governments of directly governed localities and above establish leading institutions on counter-terrorism efforts; county level people's governments accordingly must establish leading institutions on counter-terrorism efforts; the responsible localities' anti-terrorism efforts are under the leadership and command of higher level leading institutions on counter-terrorism efforts.
The Chinese People's Liberation Army, the Chinese People's armed police forces and people's militia organizations prevent and handle terrorist activities under the deployment of leading institutions for counter-terrorism efforts and following this Law and other relevant laws, administrative regulations, military regulations and the decrees of the State Council and the Central Military Commission.
Relevant departments shall establish a joint coordination mechanism that relies upon and mobilizes villagers' committees, residents' committees , enterprises and public institutions, and societal organizations to jointly develop counter-terrorism efforts.
      Where the national leading institution for counter-terrorism efforts makes a decision to revoke a determination, its administrative body will make an announcement; where capital or assets have already been frozen, they shall be released.
Administrative management departments for education and human resources, schools and relevant vocational training institutions shall include knowledge of prevention and response to terrorist activities within their teaching, studies and training content.
 Relevant units such as for news, radio, television , culture, religion and the internet shall conduct pertinent counter-terrorism publicity and education aimed at the public.
       Villagers ' committees and residents ' committees shall assist people's governments and   related departments in strengthening counter-terrorism publicity and education.
      Network communications, telecommunications, public security, state security and other such departments discovering information with terrorist or extremist content shall promptly order to the relevant units to stop their transmission and delete relevant information, or close relevant websites, and terminate relevant services. Relevant units shall immediately enforce [such orders] save relevant records, and assist in conducting investigations. Departments for network communications shall adopt technical measures to interrupt transmission of information with terrorrist or extremist content that crosses borders online.
Logistics operations units as provided for in the preceding paragraph, shall carry out a registry system for transport and shipping customer identification, and item information.
Transport units shall follow provisions in the course of operations to conduct monitoring via a positioning system of the means of transport for hazardous chemicals, civil-use explosives, or nuclear or radioactive materials.
Relevant units shall follow provisions to conduct strict oversight and management of contagious disease pathogens and other such substances, rigidly preventing their spread or entering unlawful channels.
        Competent departments under the State Council or provincial level people's governments may decide to implement controls within specified areas on the production, import, export, transport, sale, use, and disposal of controlled instruments, hazardous chemicals or civil-use explosives; and may decide to prohibit the use of cash or in-kind trading for these items, or implement other restrictions on their trade.
Units or individuals must not unlawfully make, production, store, transport, import, export, sell, provide, purchase, use, be in possession of, dispose of, or destroy goods provided for in the preceding paragraph. Where discovered by public security organs, they shall be seized; where discovered by other competent departments, they shall be seized and the public security organs shall be immediately notified , and where discovered by other units or individuals, the discovery shall be promptly reported to public security organs.
      Where State Council administrative management departments for combating money laundering discover financing suspected of being related to terrorism, they may conduct an investigation in accordance with law, and employ temporary [asset] freezing measures.
Local people's Governments at all levels shall organize and supervise relevant construction units in alloting and installing public security video image information system and other equipment and facilities for the technical and physical prevention of terrorist attacks, at the key positions of main roads, transportation hubs and public areas of the city as needed.
Public security organs discovering extremist activities shall order them immediately stopped, and forcibly take relevant personnel away from the scene and register their identification information, take relevant items and materials and seal off the site of the illegal activity.
      Any unit or individual that discovers items, materials or information advocating extremism shall immediately report it to the public security organs.
 Prisons, detention centers, and community corrections organizations shall strengthen management, education and corrections efforts for those convicted and serving a sentence for terrorist or extremist crimes. As necessary for reform and education and maintaining supervision and order, prisons and detention centers may include those convicted of terrorist or extremist crimes with the general population, or separately imprison them.
The intermediate people's court for the place where the sentence was served shall make a decision before the release on completion of sentence of those that are truly dangerous to society, ordering them to receive an educational placement after they are released on the completion of their sentence. A copy of the written decision shall be sent to the people's procuratorate at the same level. If the person subject to a decision for placement in education is dissatisfied with the decision, he may apply for a reconsideration to the people's court at the level above.
Education placements are organized and carried out by provincial level people's governments. Educational placement organizations shall conduct an annual assessment of people given educational placements, and shall promptly submit an opinion on releasing those who truly show repentence and reform and are no longer socially dangerous from the placement, to the intermediate people's court that made the original educational placement decision. Persons in education placements have the right to apply for release from the educational placement.
      People's procuratorate's carry out supervision of education placement decisions.
(1) formulate prevention and response plans and measures for terrorist actions, and periodically conduct training and exercises;
  (2) Establish systems for ensuring funding for the special counter-terrorism efforts; allot and update prevention and handling facilities and equipment;
 (3) Assign relevant organs, or put responsible persons into place, and clarify job responsibilities;
        (4) Implement risk assessment, real-time security threat monitoring and improve internal security management;
  (5) Periodically report on the situation of implementing prevention measures to the public security organs and relevant departments
  Units managing key targets shall follow the urban and rural plans, the relevant standards and actual needs, to synchronize design, construction and movement of equipment and facilities for technical and material defense precautions compliant with article 27 of this law.
Units managing key targets shall establish systems such as for the monitoring of the public security video information system, the storage and use of information, and operations protections; to ensure the regular operations of relevant systems. Gathered video or image information should be saved for no fewer than 90 days.
      For units, venues, activities, and facilities other than key targets, the competent department and  management unit shall follow provisions of the laws and administrative regulations to establish and improve security management systems and implement, put security accountability into practice.
Public security organs and Chinese People's armed police forces shall follow relevant provisions in guarding, patrolling and inspecting key targets.
 Public security organs and the Chinese People's Liberation Army frontier forces shall closely organize patrols of the national (frontier) borders; and follow provisions to conduct inspections of areas near national (frontier) borders, national (frontier) border crossings and passages, port staff, means of conveyance and materials, and boats setting off from coastal regions.
      When discovering articles suspected of being involved in terrorist activities, inspection and quarantine departments shall seize [them] according to law, and shall transfer [them] to public security organs or national security organs immediately.
        Relevant departments shall strengthen efforts to collect counter-terrorism intelligence information, and shall follow provisions to uniformly send all leads related to intelligence information, such as regarding personnel or activities, to the national counter-terrorism intelligence information center.
 Local leading institutions for counter-terrorism efforts shall establish cross-departmental intelligence information working mechanisms, organize the development of counter-terrorism intelligence information efforts, and shall promptly report important intelligence information to the leading institution for counter-terrorism efforts at the level above, and shall promptly inform relevant locations of urgent intelligence information related to those areas.
      Materials obtained in accordance with the preceding paragraph may only be used in the response to and handling of terrorist activities and in the investigation, indictment and trial of terrorist activity or extremist crimes, and must otherwise used.
      Where state secrets, commercial secrets or personal privacy are disclosed in violation of provisions, legal responsibility is pursued in accordance with law.
      Public security organs investigating suspected terrorist activity may notify persons that understand the relevant circumstances to come to the public security organ or other location for questioning.
          （1）Must not leave their city or county of residence, or designated residence, without permission of a public security organ;
  （2）must not participate in large scale mass activities, or engage in specified activities；
    (3) must not ride on public transportation or enter specified venues without approval by the public security organs;
    (5) periodically report on activities to the public security organs;
    (6) hand over passports or other entry and exit documents, id cards or drivers licenses to the public security organs organ for keeping.
 Public security organs may employ electronic surveillance, random inspections and other methods to monitor compliance with restrictive conditions.
The period for restrictive measures provided for in the preceding two paragraphs must not exceed 3 months. Where it is not necessary to continue employing restrictive measures, they shall be promptly removed.
The national leading institution for counter-terrorism efforts shall target patterns, characteristics and potential societal harms of different types of terrorist incident, and formulate a response plan based on level and category, specifically providing a system for organization direction in responding to terrorist incidents, safety precautions, response and handling procedures, post-incident social recovery, and other such content.
        Relevant departments and local leading institutions for counter-terrorism efforts shall formulate corresponding response plans.
The national leading institution for counter-terrorism efforts is responsible for commanding the response to terrorist incidents that occur across provinces, autonomous regions, or directly governed municipalities, or especially serious terrorist incidents; the provincial level leading institution for counter-terrorism efforts takes command of the response to terrorist incidents that involve multiple administrative regions within provincial, autonomous region, or directly governed municipality or are especially serious.
Higher level leading institutions for counter-terrorism efforts may conduct guidance of response efforts, and when necessary transfer relevant counter-terrorism forces for support.
Where it is necessary to enter into a state of emergency, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress or the State Council follow the scope of authority and procedures in the Constitution and relevant legal provisions to make a decision.
Where leading institutions for counter-terrorism efforts have not designated a commander, the highest ranking personnel of the public security organs active on site serve as the on-site commander. Where public security organs cannot appear at the scene, the highest ranking personnel of the Chinese People's Liberation Army or armed police forces responding at the scene will serve as the on-site commander. Regardless of whether they come from different units or systems, on-scene personnel shall all follow the on-site commander's commands.
       After a commander has been designated, the on-scene commanders shall ask for his instruction, and report to him on efforts or relevant circumstances.
        After People's Republic of China organizations, personnel, or important facilities based abroad suffer a serious terrorist attack, upon discussion and consent of the concerned nation, the national leading institution for counter-terrorism efforts may organize diplomatic, public security, national security and other such departments to appoint staff members to go abroad and develop response efforts.
 (1) Organize rescue and treatment of injured persons, disperse, evacuate and appropriately place endangered persons and also employ other relief measures;
(2) Seal off the scene and surrounding roads, check the identity documents of the persons on site, and set up temporary security lines near relevant places.
(3) Implement airspace, maritime (water) space control within specific areas, and conduct inspections of transportation vehicles within specific areas;     
(4) Implement Internet, radio, or communication control within specific areas;    
(5) Implement exit-entry control within specific areas or directed at specific personnel;
(6) Prohibit or limit the use of relevant equipment, or facilities; close or limit the use of relevant venues, suspend activities with a high concentration of people, or production and operation activities that might increase the harm;
(7) Make emergency repairs to public facilities such as for transportation, telecommunications, internet, radio, television, public water, sewage, public electricity, gas service, and heating;
(8) Organize volunteers to participate in counter-terrorism rescue work, requesting that personnel with expertise provide services;
                Response and handling measures taken pursuant to Items 3 and 5 of the preceding paragraph are decided or approved by leading institutions on counter-terrorism work at or above the provincial level; response and handling measures taken pursuant Item 6 of the preceding paragraph are decided by leading institutions on counter-terrorism work at or above districted municipal level. The applicable time and space limits of response and handling measures shall be made clear and released to the public.Article 62:People's police, people's armed police and other response personnel that are lawfully equipped with and carry weapons, may use their weapons against persons at the scene in possession of weapons such as guns and knives, or who are using other dangerous methods, who are committing violent acts or are preparing to commit violent acts, where warnings prove ineffective. In emergency situations or where giving a warning might cause a more serious harm, weapons may be used directly.
 No unit or person shall fabricate or transmit false terrorist incident information; nor report or transmit the details of implementation that could lead to the imitation of terrorist incidents; nor release the cruel or inhumane scenes of terrorist incidents; during the course of response and handling of terrorist incidents, except when news media are approved by the leading institutions on counter-terrorism work in charge of releasing information, [they] shall not report or transmit the identity information of the staff on site or of the hostage(s) or the situations of the response and handling operations.
        Provided that it does not violate Chinese law, the people's governments at the county level or above in border regions and their competent departments, may initiate exchanges of counter-terrorism intelligence information, cooperative enforcement and monitoring of international funds with neighboring nations and regions upon approval by the State Council or relevant central government departments.
      The Chinese People's Liberation Army and Chinese People's armed police forces may assign people to leave the country on counter-terrorism missions as approved by the central military commission.
 The State gives necessary financial support to key counter-terrorism sites, and gives financial assurances to areas that respond to large scale terrorist incidents.
On the basis of work needs, county and township level people's Governments guide relevant departments, villagers ' committees and residents ' committees to establish counter-terrorism forces and a volunteer corps, to assist and cooperate with relevant departments carrying out counter-terrorism efforts.
      (1) Don't release their true name, address, workplace or other personal information;
      (2) Prohibit specified persons from approaching the protected person;
      (3) Adopt special measures to protect their person and residence;
     (4) Change the name of the person being protected, and arrange for a new residence and workplace;
Public security organs, state security organs, the Chinese People's Liberation Army and the Chinese People's armed police forces may, in case of urgent need encountered while performing counter-terrorism duties, requisition the property of units and individuals in accordance with relevant provisions.
       Where the lawful rights and interests of relevant units or individuals are harmed as the result of counter-terrorism efforts, compensation or indemnification shall be made in accordance with law. Relevant units and individuals have the right to demand compensation or indemnification in accordance with law.
(1) Advocating terrorism or extremism, or inciting the commission of terrorist or extremist acts;
(2) Manufacturing, disseminating, or unlawfully possessing items that advocate terrorism or extremism;
(3) Compelling others to wear or bear clothes or symbols that advocate terrorism or extremism in a public place;
(4) Supplying support, aid, or facilitation to the advocacy of terrorism or extremism or the commission of terrorist or extremist activities.such as by providing information, financing, supplies, labor services, technologies, or venues.
 (1) Forcing others to participate in religious activities, or forcing others to supply properties or labor services to religious activity venues or religious or clerical personnel;
(2) Using methods such as intimidation or harassment to drive personnel of other ethnicities or having other faiths away from their places of residence;
(3) Using methods such as intimidation or harassment to interfering with others from having contact with or living with persons of other ethnicities or persons who believe in other religions;
(4) Using methods such as intimidation or harassment to interfere in the habits and ways of life of other persons, or in production or management;
(5) Obstructing the lawful performance of duties by state organ personnel;
(6) Distorting or demeaning State policies, laws, or administrative regulations, or inciting or abetting the boycott of the lawful administration by the people's governments;
(7) Inciting or coercing the public to mutilate, or intentionally mutilating national legal    documents such as resident identification cards, household registers or Renminbi;
(8) Inciting or coercing others to hold religious ceremonies in place of marriage or divorce registration ;
        (9) Inciting or coercing minors to not receive compulsory education;
        (10) Other acts of using extremism to obstruct the implementation of the national legal system.
(1) Not providing technical interfaces, decryption and other technical support assistance to public security organs and state security organs conducting prevention and investigation of terrorist activities in accordance with law.
(2) not following a competent department's request to stop transmission, delete information that has terrorist or extremist content, store relevant records, or to close down relevant websites, or shut down related services;
(3) Not putting into place systems for network security and supervision of information content, technological security precautionary measures, causing the transmission of information with terrorist or extremist content; where the circumstances are serious.
      (1) Not implementing safety inspection systems and checking customer identities or not conducting safety inspections of transported or delivered goods or opening them for visual         inspection.
      (2) transporting or shipping items for which transport or shipping is prohibitted, that pose a major safety risk, or that customers refuse to allow a safety inspection of;
      (3) Not carrying out a registry system for transport and shipping customer identification, and item information.
 Where lodging, long-distance passenger transport, or motor vehicle rental business operators and service providers have any of the situations provided in the preceding paragraph, the competent departments shall give a fine of between 100,000 and 500,000 yuan, and fine directly responsible managers and other directly responsible personnel up to 100,000 yuan.
 (1) Provisions were not followed to make digital tracking markers for guns and other weapons, ammunition, dangerous chemicals, civil-use explosives, and nuclear or radioactive materials, and attach inspection markers to civil-use explosives：
 (2) Provisions were not followed in the course of operations to conduct monitoring via a positioning system of the means of transport for hazardous chemicals, civil-use explosives, or nuclear or radioactive materials.
 (3) Provisions were not followed to conduct strict oversight and management of contagious disease pathogens and other such substances, and the circumstances are serious;
(4) Competent departments under the State Council or provincial level people's government’s decisions on controls or trade restriction measures for controlled instruments, hazardous chemicals or civil-use explosives were violated.
(1) Plans and measures for preventing and responding to terrorist activities have not been formulated;
(2) Systems for ensuring funding for the special counter-terrorism have not been established; or prevention and handling equipment and facilities have not been allotted.
        (3) Working institutions or responsible personnel have not been put in place.
(4) Background investigations of personnel in key posts have not been conducted or personnel with inappropriate circumstances, have not had their position adjusted.
(5) Security personnel, and related equipment and facilities, were not alloted for public transport in accordance with provisions.
(6) Systems ensuring the normal operations of the public security video information systems such as for monitoring, storing and using information, operations and maintenance were not established.
 Where units organizing large-scale activities and management units for key targets have not followed provisions to conduct safety inspections of persons, items, and transports entering key targets such as large-scale venues, airports, railway stations, docks, municipal light rail stations, and long-distance passenger stations, or ports, the public security organs shall order corrections, and where corrections are refused give fines of up to 100,000 and fine directly responsible managers and other directly responsible personnel up to 10,000 yuan.
Where individuals exhibit the conduct in the preceding paragraph, the public security organs will impose 10 to 15 days detention, and may give a concurrent fine of up to 10,000 yuan.
Where units have the conduct provided for in the preceding paragraph, a fine of up to 50,000 yuan is given by the relevant departments, and where serious consequences are caused, the fine is up to 100,000; the principle responsible managers and other directly responsible personnel are fined in accordance with the preceding paragraph.
Where units have the conduct provided for in the preceding paragraph, a fine of up to 200,000 yuan is given by the public security organs, and the principle responsible managers and other directly responsible personnel are fined in accordance with the preceding paragraph.
Obstructing the people's police, people's liberation army or people's armed police in the lawful performance of their duties, is given harsh punishment.
Where leading institution for counter-terrorism efforts or relevant departments, as well as their staffs, abuse their power, neglect their duties or misuse their power for individual benefit or have other conduct violating laws or discipline, all units and individuals have the right to report it or make an accusation to the competent department. After relevant departments receive a report or accusation, they shall promptly handle it and respond to the informant or accuser.
[1] China’s Islamic terror probe, Jayadeva Ranade, rediff.com news, October 5, 2015 http://www.rediff.com/news/column/chinas-islamic-terror-problem/20151005.htm
2 White Paper on Development and Progress in Xinjiang, china.org.cn, September 21, 2009, http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/ethnic/2009-09/21/content_8717461_7.htm
[3] Regional ethnic autonomy suits Tibet, China: white paper Sept. 6 (Xinhua) http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2015-09/06/c_134593837.htm
4 Zhang Chunxian, Xinjiang  Party secretary, at National People’s Congress, March 2015; Guy Taylor,   China warns that Uighurs joining Islamic State fight are bringing terror home,   The Washington Times,  March 10, 2015; http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/mar/10/china-says-uighurs-bring...
5 Will Adopt 'Unbiased' Approach To India's Move For UN Ban On Jaish: China; PTI, January 13, 2016  http://www.ndtv.com/india-news/will-adopt-unbiased-approach-to-indias-mo...
[6] Joint Statement between the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Public Security of the People’s Republic of China, http://pib.nic.in/newsite/PrintRelease.aspx?relid=131765 , Press Information Bureau, November 21, 2015.