2016-01~02
http://asean-community.com/2016/01/21/ease-of-militant-entry-rings-alarm-bells-in-indonesia/

Ease of militant entry rings alarm bells in Indonesia | ASEAN Community
JAKARTA: The convenience with which three separate teams of ethnic Uighur militants sneaked into Indonesia is ringing alarm bells for safety forces, who’re on excessive alert for a far deadlier assault than final week’s assault on Jakarta.
A minimum of 10 Uighurs, who hail from China, arrived on the planet’s most populous Muslim nation during the last 18 months to hitch Islamist radicals, exposing an in depth help community able to welcome wannabe jihadis.
Police worry the identical community might help within the return of battle-hardened Indonesian Islamic State fighters from Syria, who might then launch extra calculated assaults, just like that which hit Paris final November.
Indonesia’s sprawling archipelago of 18,000 islands is just too huge to regulate the actions of militants, drug smugglers, human traffickers and refugees, police say.
“There’s sufficient safety on the fundamental entry factors,” the nation’s police chief, Badrodin Haiti, advised Reuters. “However there are extra conventional factors for getting into illegally, the place often fishermen convey individuals in.”
With round 500 Indonesians taking one-method journeys to hitch Islamic State in Syria and Iraq, authorities had not thought-about the Southeast Asian nation’s porous border to be a urgent safety difficulty till lately.
However final month’s arrest of an Uighur particular person, Ali Mehmet, after police discovered bomb-making gear in a home in a Jakarta suburb, spotlighted how straightforward it’s for individuals to be smuggled into Indonesia.
Uighurs come from Xinjiang in far western China, a area Beijing says is house to Islamist militants and separatists.
Jakarta says it’s working with China to stem the movement of Uighur militants, who police say are responding to a name by Santoso, Indonesia’s most excessive-profile backer of Islamic State, to hitch his band of fighters.
Ahmet Bozoglan, a member of China’s Uighur minority, walks for his look on terrorism costs in Jakarta in July. (Photograph: AFP/Bay Ismoyo)
Fishermen from the Indonesian island of Batam, an space infamous for trafficking, have been suspected of serving to Mehmet to cross over from neighbouring Malaysia, his lawyer, Asludin Hatjani, informed Reuters.
“Clearly they convey with individuals right here earlier than arriving, primarily by way of Whatsapp,” he stated, referring to a social media software widespread on cellular telephones.
Utilizing the underground help community, the previous bread vendor made his option to the Jakarta suburb the place, authorities consider, he and his housemates plotted an assault on the capital.
“It’s clear from the police proof that Mehmet was caught dwelling in a home the place there have been bomb-making supplies and he was with individuals associated to the plan,” Hatjani stated.
Mehmet was harmless, nevertheless, he stated, including that his shopper had been on the incorrect place on the improper time. “As his lawyer, I can say that he was right here for tourism functions and stress aid after getting divorced from his spouse.”
However police suspect Mehmet was one among a number of militants, together with the 4 Indonesians who launched final week’s Jakarta assault, who acquired funding from Islamic State members in Syria.
Two extra Uighurs have been arrested this month after police discovered bomb-making gear at their home.
Police say they’re beginning to determine community members who’re in jail or on the run. However with at the very least 1,000 supporters of Islamic State in Indonesia, specialists say fighters coming back from Syria might obtain ample assist.
“The community of Islamic State sympathizers is sort of widespread and they’re believed to be in a number of places,” stated Jakarta-based mostly terrorism professional Rakyan Adibrata, who advises parliament.
Within the Nineteen Eighties and early Nineteen Nineties, Indonesians and Malaysians coming back from battling the Soviet Union in Afghanistan shaped the transnational group Jemaah Islamiyah, which was answerable for the 2002 Bali bombings that killed greater than 200 individuals.
In response to the Jakarta assault, which killed eight individuals, together with the 4 attackers, Indonesian President Joko Widodo agreed to new guidelines permitting safety forces to arrest returning Islamic State fighters.
However recognizing them on their return residence stays the issue.
“In any given place, there might be a whole lot of factors of entry,” Haiti stated.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Currently you have JavaScript disabled. In order to post comments, please make sure JavaScript and Cookies are enabled, and reload the page. Click here for instructions on how to enable JavaScript in your browser.