2016-01~02
http://www.shanghaidaily.com/national/Xinjiang-officials-facing-prosecution-for-corruption/shdaily.shtml

Xinjiang officials facing prosecution for corruption | Shanghai Daily
Follow us @  | Shanghai Call Center: 962288 |  Mobile Version  |  THU, APR 18, 2013
TWO senior officials in northwest China’s Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region have been expelled from the Party and are to be prosecuted on corruption charges, China’s anti-graft watchdog said.
China has jailed dozens of senior officials since a sweeping campaign against graft was launched three years ago.
In June, authorities said they were investigating Alimjan Maimaitiming, 56, a former secretary general in the regional government, for serious discipline violations, a euphemism for corruption.
The violations were “extremely severe” and “gravely damaged Party unity,” the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection said in a statement on its website.
His alleged crimes range from “forming cliques and factions” and opposing investigation to transferring criminal proceeds, destroying evidence, abusing his power and having improper sexual relations, the watchdog said.
According to his official biography, Alimjan is from Cherchen, also known by its Chinese name of Qiemo, in the south of Xinjiang. He was previously editor-in-chief of the official Xinjiang Daily.
Also facing prosecution, the anti-graft watchdog said in a separate statement, is Xie Hui, who ran the Xinjiang prison system from 2010 until his promotion in 2013 as a vice head of the region’s public security bureau.
Xie, 53, who was put under investigation in July, seriously violated Party discipline and rules for the appointment of officials, abused his power, and receiving “huge sums” from undetermined sources, it said.
Kindly remind you that you have reached your weekly limit of 20 free stories.
Kindly remind you that your 1-week free trial has expired. Thank you for your interest in our products.
To continue using full functionality of our site, please subscribe below.

Education, 
 Entertainment and culture, Environment,
 Expat community, 
 Health and science, Society, 
 In-depth, Services...

Art and culture, 
 Community, Education, 
 Animal planet, Travel...

Book, City Scene,
 Film, Home and design,
 Now and Then, Style,
 Technology, The Week...

 Copyright © 1999- Shanghai Daily. All rights reserved.Preferably
 viewed with Internet Explorer 8 or newer browsers.
