2016-01~02
http://www.thestar.com.my/news/regional/2016/01/07/jakarta-turns-to-beijing-to-stem-flow-of-uighur-militants/

Jakarta turns to Beijing to stem flow of Uighur militants - Regional | The Star Online
JAKARTA: Indonesian authorities are working with their counterparts in China to stem a flow of ethnic Uighur militants seeking to join Islamist fighters in the world’s most populous Muslim country, Indonesia’s counter-terrorism chief said.
Saud Usman Nasution’s comments come amid mounting concern in Indonesia about possible attacks by sympathisers of the Islamic State group and follows the arrest of 13 men across the island of Java, including a Muslim Uighur with a suicide-bomb vest.
The appearance among Indonesian militant networks of Uighurs, who come from the Xinjiang region in far-western China, is likely to add to Beijing’s concerns that exiles will return to their homeland as experienced and trained fighters.
Nasution, who heads the National Counter-Terrorism Agency, said in an interview that several Uighurs had responded to a call last year by Santoso, Indonesia’s most high-profile backer of Islamic State, to join his band of fighters.
“We are cooperating with China and investigating evidence such as ATM cards and cellphones,” Nasution said.
There was no immediate comment from China’s foreign ministry on whether Beijing is collaborating with Indonesia.
“As far as China is concerned, these people are running off, some of them taking part in fighting and planning to strike back,” said Pan Zhiping, a terrorism expert at the Xinjiang Academy of Social Sciences.
“Of course we must stop them. I believe, in terms of jointly guarding against extremism, it is necessary that we cooperate.” Bilveer Singh of the Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore said the direct involvement of Chinese Uighurs in Southeast Asian militancy added “an external dimension to the existing home-grown terrorist threat”. — Reuters
Copyright Â© 1995- Star Media Group Berhad (ROC 10894D)(Formerly known as Star Publications (Malaysia) Berhad)