2016-01~02
http://english.sina.com/china/2016/0202/887318.html

Xinjiang govt stresses border control, law on anti-terrorism - China News - SINA English
The Party chief of Northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region has stressed the importance of border control, ethnic unity and the implementation of the anti-terrorism law in the government's 2016 work.
Zhang Chunxian, secretary of the Communist Party of China's Xinjiang committee, said in a meeting on Sunday that the government must attach great importance to the reduction of overcapacity, poverty alleviation, border control, ethnic unity, reform of Xinjiang Corps and the promotion and implementation of the anti-terrorism law.
Zhang called on fellow officials in Xinjiang to profoundly understand the current situation and make great efforts in cracking down on terrorism, implementing ethnic and religious policies, promoting education and employment and reforming the Xinjiang Corps, the Xinjiang Daily reported on Tuesday.
Zhang made aforementioned statement at a Sunday meeting attended by members of the standing committee of the Party's Xinjiang provincial committee, the top decision-makers in the Xinjiang government.
At the meeting, Zhang conveyed the instructions from the Central Xinjiang Work Coordination Leading Group, whose members met and discussed Xinjiang work on January 28.
Xinjiang has been troubled by terror attacks in the past few years. In September 2015, a terror attack in a coal mine in Baicheng, Aksu Prefecture killed 11 residents and five police officers.
The government said in a later statement in November that the attack was planned and led by an extremist organization outside of China.
SINA English is the English-language destination for news and information about China. Find general information on life, culture and travel in China through our news and special reports or find business partners through our online Business Directory. For investment opportunities with SINA, please click the link "Investor" below.
| About SINA | Investor | Media Kit | Comments or Question? |