2016-01~02
http://www.shanghaidaily.com/national/Colleges-to-raise-their-intake-from-Xinjiang/shdaily.shtml

Colleges to raise their intake from Xinjiang | Shanghai Daily
Follow us @  | Shanghai Call Center: 962288 |  Mobile Version  |  THU, APR 18, 2013
More than 300 higher-learning institutes will increase enrollment of students from northwest China’s Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region in government-sponsored education programs.
At a conference organized by the Ministry of Education and State Ethnic Affairs Commission on Saturday, representatives of 323 institutions signed a deal to enroll 10,000 Xinjiang students annually from this year through 2020, up from 6,800 last year.
The program is designed to improve the education level of “ethnic talent from Xinjiang,” said Zhu Zhiwen, vice education minister at the meeting held in Urumqi, the regional capital.
Chen Gaihu, vice director of the ethnic affairs commission, said the program will help to protect the rights of ethnic groups in Xinjiang.
Although there are plenty of primary and secondary schools in Xinjiang, the region lacks higher education resources.
In December, the China University of Petroleum opened a campus in Karamay — the first higher-learning institute under the Ministry of Education to open in the region.
To ensure access to education for the ethnic people in Xinjiang, the government initiated the “education coordination program” in 1989 by encouraging universities to reserve seats.
Over the past two decades, 323 higher-learning institutes have joined the program, and helped to educate more than 60,000 students, who now provide the backbone for the region’s political, economic and agricultural sectors.
Kindly remind you that you have reached your weekly limit of 20 free stories.
Kindly remind you that your 1-week free trial has expired. Thank you for your interest in our products.
To continue using full functionality of our site, please subscribe below.

Education, 
 Entertainment and culture, Environment,
 Expat community, 
 Health and science, Society, 
 In-depth, Services...

Art and culture, 
 Community, Education, 
 Animal planet, Travel...

Book, City Scene,
 Film, Home and design,
 Now and Then, Style,
 Technology, The Week...

 Copyright © 1999- Shanghai Daily. All rights reserved.Preferably
 viewed with Internet Explorer 8 or newer browsers.
