2016-01~02
http://www.howcanigeteasymoney.com/hopes-for-border-resolution-rise-with-indian-security-officials-visit/

Hopes for border resolution rise with Indian security official’s visit | US Stock News
India’s national security advisor is visiting China and will meet with his Chinese counterpart, another official contact with China which experts believe will hasten a resolution to boundary issues.
Ajit Doval, the national security advisor and Special Representative for Sino-India boundary talks, will meet with Chinese State Councilor Yang Jiechi on Tuesday and Premier Li Keqiang on Wednesday, The Times of India reported.
Yang and Doval will “review progress on the border issue” and discuss strategic issues on relations involving neighboring countries, according to The Times of India.
“Frequent talks between the two countries will accelerate solving a dispute on the long border, including its western section with Northwest China’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, and eastern part with Southwest China’s Tibet Autonomous Region,” Wang Dehua, director of the Institute for Southern and Central Asian Studies at the Shanghai Municipal Center for International Studies, told the Global Times.
Ajit Doval’s visit to China follows frequent interactions between the two countries’ top leaders in 2015. China and India have strengthened cooperation on security issues, including solving a border dispute through peace talks, Fu Xiaoqiang, an expert on South Asian studies at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, told the Global Times on Sunday.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited China in May and Indian Home Minister Rajnath Singh also visited in November, while Chinese Vice President Li Yuanchao also visited India in November.
Fu said that the two countries have already agreed to solve the border dispute based on mutual understanding and accommodation, but its implementation faces many difficulties, including marking the Line of Actual Control in the China-India Border Areas.
Wang said that China and India have agreed to hold quarterly instead of annual talks, and to enhance discussions on security issues at different levels.
A border dispute settlement could reduce conflicts between the two countries, strengthen mutual trust and maintain regional peace, Wang added.
During a visit to India in November, Chinese Central Military Commission Vice-Chairman Fan Changlong met with Indian Army chief General Dalbir Singh, calling on the two countries to implement the consensus on boundary issues, properly control their differences, strengthen border cooperation at all levels, and safeguard peace and stability in the border regions.

Hopes for border resolution rise with Indian security official’s visit
