2016-01~02
http://www.ucanews.com/news/china-charges-seven-detained-human-rights-lawyers/74956

China charges seven detained human rights lawyers ucanews.com
Chinese police push away journalists and supporters of human rights lawyer Pu Zhiqiang in Beijing on Dec. 14. Police in China in mid-Januray formally charged seven human rights lawyers with state subversion amid a crackdown on lawyers. (Photo by AFP)
Police in China have formally charged seven human rights lawyers and their colleagues who took on sensitive religious and political cases following their detention during a crackdown on legal professionals in July.
Zhou Shifeng, founder of Beijing's Fengrui law firm and colleagues Wang Quan Zhang and trainee Li Shuyun were charged with "state subversion," another member of the firm Liu Xiaoyuan said on his verified social media account on Jan. 12.
They face up to life imprisonment if found guilty by China's court system, which retains a conviction rate of close to 100 percent.
President Xi Jinping has launched a 'rule of law' campaign in recent years, netting thousands of corrupt officials while promoting stricter adherence to Chinese laws. But rights groups say such moves have been used to attack opponents, including Christians who have faced cross removals in Zhejiang province.
Critics also point out the irony of a 'rule of law' campaign that has witnessed an unprecedented crackdown on lawyers.
Zhao Wei, a legal assistant also at Fengrui, and lawyers at other firms — Xie Yanyi, Xie Yang and Sui Muqing — were charged with the lesser crime of "incitement to state subversion," which carries a maximum 15-year prison term.
Family members said they were notified by letter, the first they had heard of their relatives' whereabouts since they were detained in secret in July — among over 130 legal professionals rounded up by authorities.
"They are now formally charged. It is better than just detaining them. This is an improvement," said Chan Kit-man, secretary-general of the Hong Kong-based Chinese Human Rights Lawyers Concern Group.
Some among the newly charged group have still not been permitted legal counsel, a violation of China's constitution, said Chan.
The Chinese legal system regularly bars independent lawyers from taking on sensitive cases, particularly terrorism cases such as those involving minority Muslim Uighurs.
Wang and Xie Yanyi have both defended members of Falun Gong, a banned sect that has accused the Communist Party of torture, extrajudicial killings and even live organ harvesting.
Members of the Fengrui firm were also involved in defending Ilham Tohti, a Uighur scholar sentenced to life in prison in September, 2014 on separatism charges.
"There were only a limited amount of lawyers throughout the country who were willing to take on sensitive cases before, but now a significant number of their ranks are behind bars," said William Nee, a China researcher for Amnesty International in Hong Kong.
Facing criticism over eroding legal rights, authorities have justified the crackdown by extracting what have been deemed as forced confessions by some of those detained while attacking them in state-run media.
Despite what has been deemed the most serious affront on China's legal professionals in years, many remain defiant.
"We are defenders of human rights and the law, and possess an unyielding conviction that the rule of law will ultimately triumph over dictatorship," read an online statement by 300 Chinese lawyers posted on New Year's Day.

 'Respect is there but devotion is less,' Filipino parishioner says

 Violent protests on Lunar New Year led to dozens of arrests, injuries

 Terrorism in the region can be combatted if the two countries fight religious extremism

 Growing fears over militancy prompts increased police presence for Semana Santa festival

 Filipinos cleanse their souls by turning Easter into a weeklong fiesta