2016-01~02
http://www.todayonline.com/world/indonesia-turns-china-ethnic-uighurs-join-would-be-jihadists

Indonesia turns to China as ethnic Uighurs join would-be jihadists | TODAYonline
JAKARTA — Indonesian authorities are working with their counterparts in China to stem a flow of ethnic Uighur militants seeking to join Islamist jihadists in the world’s most populous Muslim country, said Indonesia’s counter-terrorism chief.
Mr Saud Usman Nasution, who heads the country’s National Counter-Terrorism Agency (BNPT), told Reuters in an interview earlier this week that several Uighurs — who come from the Xinjiang region in far-western China — had responded to a call last year by Santoso, Indonesia’s most high-profile backer of Islamic State (IS), to join his band of fighters.
He said IS and human trafficking networks helped them travel via Myanmar, Thailand and Malaysia to Santoso’s hideout in an equatorial jungle of eastern Indonesia.
The counter-terrorism chief’s comments come amid mounting concern in Indonesia about possible attacks by sympathisers of IS, and follow the arrest of 13 men across the island of Java, including a Muslim Uighur with a suicide-bomb vest who was arrested on Dec 23 last year while hiding in a house just outside the capital, Jakarta.
“We are cooperating with China and investigating evidence such as ATM cards and cell phones,” said Mr Nasution, adding that an Indonesian team went to China to interview members of the man’s family, who would not confirm that they were related to him.
There was no immediate comment from China’s Foreign Ministry on whether Beijing is collaborating with Indonesia. But the appearance of Uighurs among Indonesian militant networks is likely to add to Beijing’s concern that exiles will return to their homeland as experienced and trained jihadists.
China says Islamist militants and separatists operate in energy-rich Xinjiang on the borders of central Asia, where violence has killed hundreds in recent years.
Human rights activists say much of the unrest in Xinjiang can be traced back to frustration at controls over the Uighurs’ culture and religion, and that most of those who leave are only fleeing repression not seeking to wage jihad. China denies repressing rights.
“As far as China is concerned, these people are running off, some of them taking part in jihad and planning to strike back,” said Mr Pan Zhiping, a terrorism expert at the Xinjiang Academy of Social Sciences.
“Of course we must stop them. I believe, in terms of jointly guarding against extremism, it is necessary that we cooperate.”