2016-01~02
http://www.ict.org.il/Article/1577/Periodical-Review-Summary-First-Half-of-June-2015

Periodical Review - Summary from the Jihadi Forums - The First Half of June 2015
This report summarizes notable events discussed on jihadist Web forums during the first half of June 2015. Following are the main points covered in the report:
The Islamic State calls upon Muslims in the Balkan countries to emigrate from their native countries to the jihad arenas in Syria and Iraq, in order to help in the Islamic State’s jihad war against its enemies. At the same time, the Islamic State calls upon Muslims in the Balkans to take action against the regimes in Kosovo, Macedonia, Albania, and the other Balkan countries, by planting explosives, poisoning food and water and so forth. In a video, harsh criticism is expressed against the Balkan countries for turning to secularism and Communism, and thereby wiping out the Islamic identity of their civilians.
The Islamic State publishes a video documenting the enlistment and integration of Uyghur fighters from Turkestan in the organization’s ranks. Among the new recruits are doctors, and Uyghur teenagers and children, and an elderly man who decides to immigrate to the Islamic State after his son is killed alongside the mujahideen in Syria. The video includes calls for Uyghur Muslims in Turkestan to join the Islamic State, and threats to attack the apostates in China.
An Islamic State fighter from France – a former Christian who converted to Islam – named Abu Salman al-Faransi, calls upon Muslims living in the West, and specifically in France, to immigrate to Syria. If that is not possible, then he suggests immigrating to Libya or Africa in order to help fight the jihad war against the apostates. In addition, the fighter threatens that in Paris and other European capitals there are dormant terror cells waiting for the command from the IS to carry out an attack in the heart of Europe.
The Islamic State puts out a new magazine in Turkish called Constantinople. It is the first of its kind, and is intended for a Turkish speaking audience, who mainly live in Turkey. The new magazine addresses apocalyptic traditional texts promising that the Muslims will be victorious over the Christians, criticizes the Democratic government in Turkey, calls upon Muslims to immigrate to the jihad arenas and fight alongside the Islamic State, and more.
The Salafi jihadist movement in the Gaza Strip expresses sharp criticism of the Hamas leadership, due to its persecution of Salafi jihadists in the Gaza Strip. According to the Salafi fighters, Hamas is trying to placate Israel and is cowing to the pressure of external influences. In response, the Salafi jihadists demand from the Hamas leadership to release their members from prisons, and they also fire Grad rockets at Israeli settlements in protest of the oppressive Hamas policies.  