2016-01~02
http://www.economist.com/news/world-week/21685517-politics-week?zid=311&ah=308cac674cccf554ce65cf926868bbc2

Politics this week | The Economist
Add this article to your reading list by clicking this button
Saudi Arabia executed 47 people on terrorism charges, including Sheikh Nimr al-Nimr, a prominent Shia Muslim cleric. Many Shias around the world reacted angrily. In Iran protesters stormed the Saudi embassy. The Saudi government, along with allies in Bahrain and Sudan, cut diplomatic ties with Iran, although it said talks this month on the Syrian civil war would not be affected. In Yemen Saudi fighter jets intensified their bombardment of Iranian-allied Houthi forces. Iran said they had bombed its embassy in Yemen.
Burundi’s government refused to join peace talks with the opposition. Sporadic violence continued in the capital, Bujumbura. Around 400 people have been killed since April, when President Pierre Nkurunziza said he would seek a third term in office.
Two former prime ministers were set to face off in the second round of a presidential election in the Central African Republic. The first vote on December 30th was peaceful, but militias still control most of the country, which has suffered Christian-Muslim violence since 2012.
North Korea claimed to have detonated a thermonuclear, or hydrogen, weapon underground. It was the rogue country’s fourth nuclear test since 2006, though international experts questioned the claim, arguing that it may have been a smaller “boosted-fission” explosion instead. Reports that the North had fired a missile from a submarine for the first time also surfaced. China, North Korea’s supposed ally, expressed anger at the test.
In Bangladesh the Supreme Court upheld the death sentence for Motiur Rahman Nizami, who heads Jamaat-e-Islami, the largest Islamic party. He was convicted last year for war crimes committed during the independence war against Pakistan in 1971, when he helped the Pakistani army identify and kill pro-independence activists. Critics claim he did not receive a fair trial.
A French journalist left China after the government refused to renew her press credentials. She was the first foreign journalist resident in China to be forced to leave the country since 2012. The government objected to her reporting on the suppression of ethnic Uighurs, a mostly Muslim minority in the west of China.
Hong Kong’s chief executive, Leung Chun-ying, said his government was very concerned about the disappearance of Lee Bo, the owner of a shop selling books about Chinese politics. There are widespread suspicions that he was abducted from the territory by mainland Chinese agents. Four others connected with the shop disappeared last October while visiting Thailand and mainland China.
China announced it was building an aircraft-carrier entirely from domestic technology. It has only one such ship, which was built in the Soviet Union.
Gisela Mota, the mayor of Temixco, a town south of Mexico City, was murdered less than a day after her inauguration. The killers are thought to have links to Los Rojos, a drugs gang. See article. 
Police in Guatemala arrested 18 former military and government officials on charges that they committed human-rights abuses during the country’s civil war, which lasted from 1960 to 1996. Prosecutors said that the accused commanded forces that were responsible for massacring civilians.
Venezuela’s newly elected parliament, the first to be controlled by the opposition to the country’s populist regime in 16 years, was sworn in. Four MPs were barred from taking their seats pending the outcome of an investigation into electoral fraud. The opposition Democratic Unity alliance defiantly swore three of them in, restoring the two-thirds majority it won in December’s election. The new head of the National Assembly called for the removal of President Nicolás Maduro within six months. See article. 
Germany’s chancellor, Angela Merkel, vowed to prosecute the men who formed mobs that molested women during new-year celebrations in Cologne. Over 100 women filed complaints claiming they had been groped, robbed and in one case raped. Police described the perpetrators as having “north African or Arab” appearances, further inflaming tensions over Germany’s acceptance of over 1m Middle Eastern refugees. See article. 
Sweden introduced border controls on the Oresund bridge that links it to Denmark as part of an effort to slow down the influx of Middle Eastern asylum applicants. Denmark responded by bringing in checks at its border with Germany. Business leaders warned that the controls threaten to undo the region’s economic integration.
Catalonia’s president, Artur Mas, announced that he will schedule new elections, after failing to form a government to carry out his programme of declaring independence from Spain.
The far-right government in Poland passed a media law that dismisses the heads of the public broadcasters and puts them under the control of the treasury minister. It is the latest in a series of steps by the Law and Justice party to gain control over the country’s courts, intelligence services and public media.
David Cameron, Britain’s prime minister, confirmed that the government will take a clear position in a referendum, expected this year or next, on whether to leave the European Union, but that he would let ministers hold a “different personal position”.
Jeremy Corbyn, the leftist leader of Britain’s opposition Labour Party, tightened his grip on the party in a reshuffle of the shadow cabinet, promoting an opponent of Trident nuclear weapons to defence. The big surprise was that Hilary Benn, who gave a stirring speech in favour of air strikes in Syria, to the obvious displeasure of Mr Corbyn, kept his job in foreign affairs.
Citing the long list of mass shootings in America Barack Obama said he would use his presidential powers to bypass Congress and ensure that most people who sell guns are registered. Even this very limited gun-control measure was met with stiff resistance from the National Rifle Association. Gun sales are expected to soar, as they have each time Mr Obama has spoken of gun restrictions.
The desert kingdom is striving to dominate its region and modernise its economy at the same time
After Pyongyang’s fourth nuclear test, China must change its tune towards its outrageous ally
A desire to limit volatility is giving rise to even bigger risks
Every six months the Council of the European Union gets a new president. This is a recipe for...
Muhammad bin Salman gambles on intervention abroad and radical economic change at home. But forget...
A possible IPO of Saudi Aramco could mark the end of the post-war oil order
The commonwealth has run out of wealth. Will Washington save it?
Measures to make life near the Missouri flood plain safer have done the opposite
Too many American schools use police officers to enforce classroom discipline
The Christian right sees 2016 as a chance to elect one of its own to the White House
A dangerous stand-off looms between the government and the newly elected parliament
Why young adults are better off north of the border
The election of an independence-leaning president would put Taiwan back in the international...
A resurgent Taliban is winning territory, but all is not lost
Yet again, terrorist attacks jeopardise reconciliation between India and Pakistan
The disappearance of booksellers raises questions about Hong Kong’s autonomy
Five years after a wave of uprisings, the Arab world is worse off than ever. But its people...
How a toxic blend of identity politics and cheap oil hurts Nigeria’s states
After a year of far-reaching security measures, the left thinks the latest one is a step too far
Attacks on women by mobs of young men inflame Germany’s refugee debate
As other peripheral economies take off, Italy’s is just so-so
The lights are going out in night clubs all over Europe
In their coolness towards the EU and multiculturalism, the Dutch were ahead of Europe’s curve
Parts of the established church are learning from their immigrant brethren
The Archbishop of Canterbury tries to save the Anglican Communion
A reshuffle points to a party shift against renewing Britain’s nuclear deterrent
Changing how Britain disburses its foreign aid will be a challenge
What Britain can learn from Northern Ireland about jobs for minorities
To defeat Islamic extremism in the intellectual arena, Britain must understand it better
Cities are becoming less racially segregated. For that, thank suburban sprawl, extortionate house...
Carmakers increasingly fret that their industry is on the brink of huge disruption
Clothes shops that sell famous brands at big discounts are thriving
A tenacious Filipino burger chain tries a different way to conquer the world
An entrepreneurial prime minister calls for a culture of innovation
What the fad for the non-hovering hoverboard tells us about business
Big currency devaluations are not boosting exports as much as they used to
There is less competition among banks than first meets the eye
American oil exports have boosted the WTI benchmark, for now
Catering to foreign-born customers is a growing niche in finance
Services like Airbnb are altering the economics of the hotel business
Despite forecasters’ best efforts, growth is devilishly hard to predict
The universe’s darkest denizens are being dragged into the light
Rocket scientists have come up with a hoverboard that works
Why economic growth soared in America in the early 20th century, and why it won’t be soaring again...
Ian “Lemmy” Kilmister, epitome of the rock lifestyle, died on December 28th, aged 70
The party divides: For presidential hopefuls, what doesn’t kill you...
Not just a game: India and Pakistan’s cricketing rivalry has always been...
The Economist playlist: What we’ll be listening to with this week’s...
The Economist explains: Why Obama’s visit to Cuba is groundbreaking
Terror and migrants in Turkey: The EU deems Turkey safe for refugees. It...
Test your EQ
Take our weekly news quiz to stay on top of the headlines

Want more from The Economist?
Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more