2016-01~02
http://www.haberajans.net/Maria-bartiromo

Maria bartiromo Mp3 indir video ve müzik yükle
Financial news veteran reveals why she left CNBC, how she deals with critics in the social media age and how she defines success in this interview with Moira Forbes.
"Hat tip to Business Insider's Linette Lopez, who picked up on CNBC chief apologist anchor Maria Bartiromo's bit of insight on why Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit decided to wake up this morning and ditch his job with no explanation.

Why We Should Celebrate Paul Ryan's Soup Kitchen Visit Helaine Olen Helaine Olen Contributor

According to Bartiromo, Pandit was tired of working for no money, especially since that mean Barack Obama and those "populists" were bashing him and all.

That's right. According to Bartiromo, a 2011 pay package worth $14.9 million is "no money."

Enablers like Bartiromo are one of the reasons we have whining billionaires like those portrayed by Chrystia Freeland in Plutocrats. It's not enough to make scads of money while everyone else picks up the bill for your bank's missteps. People need to be nice to you while you are at it. They can't hurt your feelings.

Admittedly, expecting anything less ridiculous from CNBC would be optimistic. This is the network, after all, where anchors have quizzed Allan Stanford about what it is like to be a billionaire, and defended the use of lead in children's toys."* Cenk Uygur explains what Bartiromo said in defense of Citigroup's Vikram Pandit, and why it might just make her the worst news anchor. 

*Read more from Helaine Olen/Forbes:
http://www.forbes.com/sites/helaineolen/2012/10/16/cnbcs-maria-bartiromo-claims-vikram-pandit-quit-citi-over-money-and-obama-bashing-him/

Support The Young Turks by Subscribing http://bit.ly/TYTonYouTube

Like Us on Facebook: 
Follow Us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/OkX87X

Buy TYT Merch: http://theyoungturks.spreadshirt.com/
http://www.newt.org/21st-century-contract-america

Newt Knows History & owns CNBC's resident Nurse Ratched, Maria Bartiromo, mops the floor with her snide comments & rolling eyes. Fair Use.
Fox Business' Maria Bartiromo talks about her friendship with legendary musician Joey Ramone.
"CNBC host Maria Bartiromo clashed with U.S Sen. Ben Cardin, D-Md., over the fiscal cliff and both political parties brinksmanship.

Bartiromo faulted Democrats for only focusing on tax increases on the rich and said both parties are keeping the economy and markets hostage with their stubborn stances.

She also asked Cardin if Washington lawmakers are incompetent."*

Maria Baritromo went all out on her CNBC show against Senator Ben Cardin, (D-Md) on parties not coming up with a fiscal cliff solution. Of course, Baritromo fought for Wall Street and the interests of the wealthy. Cenk Uygur breaks down how she and CNBC protect the wealthy and powerful. 

*Read more from Mike Sunnucks/ Phoenix Business Journal http://www.bizjournals.com/phoenix/morning_call/2012/12/cnbc-host-derides-lawmakers-as.html

Support The Young Turks by Subscribing http://bit.ly/TYTonYouTube

Support The Young Turks by Shopping http://bit.ly/XhuNqO

Like Us on Facebook: 
Follow Us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/OkX87X

Buy TYT Merch: http://theyoungturks.spreadshirt.com/
--
SUBSCRIBE for the latest news and updates from the Marco Rubio campaign ► http://rub.io/tEJVqD

Watch more videos from Marco Rubio! ► http://rub.io/E6DYdY

Stay connected with the campaign.
Subscribe on YouTube ► http://rub.io/SPyN87
Like us on Facebook ► http://rub.io/jtnBBg
Follow us on Twitter ► http://rub.io/5crP7q
Follow us on Instagram ► http://rub.io/K5Lm3R

ABOUT MARCO RUBIO
For Marco Rubio, America is not just the country where he was born -- it is the place that changed his family’s history. His parents came to America from Cuba in 1956 to pursue a better life. His father became a bartender, and his mother became a cashier, a maid and a Kmart stock clerk. Growing up in Las Vegas and Miami, Marco watched how his parents worked hard and sacrificed to give their children a life better than their own. They never made it big, but they were successful. They achieved the American Dream. And that is why he is running for president. For too many people, the American Dream feels impossible. Opportunity and success seems far away. But Marco has worked tirelessly to restore the hope and promise that the American Dream is real and that every American can achieve their own unique version of that dream. As U.S. Senator, Marco has led a bold offensive to institute innovative, conservative ideas to address the fundamental issues our country is facing and to restore hope in the American Dream. His ideas are firmly rooted in this simple truth – the American economy has changed significantly in recent decades and our policies must change with it. He has proposed conservative reforms to our nation’s anti-poverty laws, tax code, regulatory policies, higher education system, vital senior safety net programs and national defense. For Marco, this country has provided him so much -- the chance to graduate from the University of Florida and then the University of Miami’s law school. The chance to marry his wife Jeanette in 1998, with whom he is raising four children: Amanda, Daniella, Anthony and Dominick. And the chance for both of them to give back through public service as a West Miami city commissioner; a Florida state legislator that rose to become majority whip, majority leader and speaker of the house; and since 2011, as a U.S. Senator. For all the opportunities this country has provided Marco and his family, including all that Jeanette has accomplished through her charitable work, he is indebted to this great country. He believes that he owes America for the opportunities that this country has given him and his family. He believes the American Dream is still possible for all Americans. But make no mistake: it will require new leadership and a bold conservative reform agenda built for the 21st century. Join Marco today to reclaim the American Dream and make sure this century becomes a New American Century.

ABOUT THE MARCO RUBIO FOR PRESIDENT YOUTUBE CHANNEL
Welcome to the official Marco Rubio for President YouTube channel. This is THE hub for videos related to Marco’s presidential run, where you’ll find media clips, debate highlights, information on issues, snippets from the campaign trail, and more. Here, you can watch Marco’s TV interviews, learn about his platform and where he stands on issues, and how he plans to bring us into a new American Century. Watch speeches and event highlights, like Marco’s official campaign launch speech in Miami. Stay up to date with all the new Marco Rubio ads and the videos going viral online. Watch him answer the top google searches about himself, and yes, watch Marco drink water. Follow Marco on the campaign trail as he travels in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, Nevada and many more states. Hear Marco talk about his Christian faith and belief in God. Get inspired by Marco’s ideas, and learn how to sign up to volunteer or donate to the campaign. Learn about Marco’s background, the story of his father working as a bartender to provide for his family, and how his story is the essence of the American Dream. Marco Rubio is running for president because he wants the American Dream to be possible for more people than ever before.

Yesterday is over and we’re never going back. Join Marco Rubio to reclaim the American Dream and make sure this century becomes a New American Century. http://rub.io/tEJVqD
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump on super PACs, corporate inversion and a new attack ad targeting his campaign featuring swearing kids.
Watch Maria Bartiromo talk about Elections on Mornings With Maria.
Maria Bartiromo, Global Markets Editor and Anchor at Fox Business News, discusses being the first woman to broadcast from the floor of the NYSE and why she made the jump from CNBC to FOX. 

9/2/15 
#1756
The GOP Debate featuring Donald Trump, Dr. Ben Carson, Sen. Marco Rubio, Sen. Ted Cruz, Carly Fiorina, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, Ohio Gov. John Kasich and Sen. Rand Paul.
Watch Maria Bartiromo and Neil Cavuto talk about Elections.