2016-01~02
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/12115545/Guantanamo-Bay-inmate-refuses-to-leave-prison-because-of-fear.html

Guantánamo Bay inmate refuses to leave prison 'because of fear' - Telegraph
A Guantánamo Bay prisoner refused at the last minute to board his flight out of the base, because he did not like the country where he would live in freedom.
Mohammed Ali Abdullah Bwazir, 35, has spent over 13 years at the camp in Cuba. Arrested in Afghanistan, the Yemen-born militant was an al-Qaeda associate who had met Osama bin Laden and fought for 18 months alongside the Taliban on the front lines.
But on Wednesday, as he was due to finally be freed, he panicked and refused to board the plane. His lawyer, John Chandler, likened Bwazir’s situation to that of Brooks in The Shawshank Redemption, who cannot contemplate life outside prison.
“Can you imagine being there for 14 years and going to a plane where you could finally leave, and saying ‘No, take me back to my cell?’ ” said Mr Chandler said.
“This is one of the saddest days of my life.”
Mr Chandler refused to say where Bwazir was being sent. But he told The Miami Herald: “It’s a country I’d go to in a heartbeat.”
Bwazir had, since his January 2010 recommendation for release, repeatedly said he wished to live in a country where he had family – mentioning the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Indonesia.
“He’s been in Guantánamo so long that he was terrified about going to a country other than one where he had family,” said Mr Chandler.
The report that recommended his release concluded he was of medium security risk, but low intelligence value.
“If released without rehabilitation, close supervision, and means to successfully reintegrate into his society as a law-abiding citizen, it is assessed detainee would probably seek out prior associates and re-engage in hostilities and extremist support activities at home and abroad,” the report stated.
“Since transfer to JTF-GTMO, detainee continues to demonstrate his commitment to extremist activities within the camp. Detainee volunteered to be a suicide operative and actively participates in the hunger strikes.”
Bwazir remains on the list of prisoners awaiting transfer, but is now unlikely to leave the base in the near future. Arranging the logistics for a prisoner to leave takes a significant amount of time.
Five Uighur detainees — Muslims from China — rejected offers in 2010 to be resettled in Palau or the Maldives, and spent four more years at Guantánamo before they were finally transferred to El Salvador and Slovakia.
Shaker Aamer, the final Briton to be held in Guantánamo, was released in October.
Ian Moss, the chief of staff for the state department’s office of Guantánamo Bay closure, confirmed that Bwazir had refused to leave.
“I cannot discuss the details of Mr Bwazir’s decision other than to say that, yes, he declined to accept an offer for resettlement in a third country,” he said.
Bwazir was due to board a flight with two other men – Tariq el Sawah, a 58-year-old Egyptian-Bosnian who was going to Bosnia, and Abdulaziz al-Swidi, 41, a Yemeni who was being resettled in Montenegro.
The two departures reduced the prison population to 91, of whom 34 are recommended for transfer. This week, the military disclosed that the review board had decided that two other Yemeni detainees who had previously been deemed too dangerous to release should now be transferred.
The two transfers on Wednesday were the last of an expected flurry of 17 that had been approved by Ashton Carter, the defence secretary, in December. No more transfers are currently approved and pending, officials said.
President Barack Obama has repeatedly emphasised his intention to close the camp, and transfer all the 57 prisoners unfit for release to other detention centres. He has asked for plans to be drawn up to deal with the “forever prisoners”, including Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the 9/11 mastermind.
During his first week in office, in January 2009, he signed an executive order mandating that Guantánamo be “closed as soon as practicable – no later than one year from the date of this order.”
He has said that the biggest regret of his presidency is not forcing the closure of the camp, which held 244 men when he took office, on day one.

Gigi Hadid leads a bevy of models and celebrities who are partial to slashed, 
 sheer and slit outfits


Prince receives traditional welcome in Khatmandu on day two of his five day 
 visit.


In pics: Palm oil industry destroying ape's rainforest habitat in 
 Sumatra


See the slew of top models who joined the actresses at the Hollywood ceremony 


A horny buffalo, Obama in Cuba and Prince Harry pretends to be a tiger


The futuristic building in California should be completed in 2016.


In pics: President Barack Obama makes history as Air Force One touches 
 down in Cuban capital Havana 


In pics: Workers begin removing tonnes of rubbish piled up around 
 Lebanon's capital


Bikini-clad skiers get a tow, a lightning strike and a rocket launch 
