2016-01~02
http://www.thephuketnews.com/police-probe-gun-shop-robbery-motive-for-terror-links-56474.php

Police probe gun shop robbery motive for terror links
BANGKOK: Police say they haven’t ruled out terrorist links as they investigate the motive behind the failed gun shop holdup by Chinese nationals in downtown Bangkok yesterday morning (Mar 4).
Four Chinese men tried to rob a gun shop in the Wang Burapha area using BB guns and knives shortly before noon. The shop owner fought back and police later shot three of the robbers, one of whom died in hospital later. The other robber was arrested in nearby areas.
Police chief Chakthip Chaijinda on Friday afternoon said that the motive behind the robbery was now the focus but the suspects claimed they did not know what the guns would be used for.
“Their boss told them they would know only when they got hold of the arms. Personally, I don’t think they wanted the guns for sale,” he said.
The general did not rule out a terrorist act since the mastermind has yet to be found.
“But we now know who he is. He’s a Chinese who has travelled to Thailand several times. We believe he’s still in the Kingdom and I’ve already told immigration police to be on high alert.”
While the general is confident no Thais were involved, he was not so sure about other groups, especially after the Aug 17, 2015 Erawan Shrine bombings, in which police concluded that Uighur Chinese were the perpetrators.
Asked whether the gang had links with the Uighurs, the police chief said it was too early to draw such a conclusion.
“But we won’t rule out anything. We’ll have to look at all angles. The fact that they used BB guns means they couldn’t find firearms. Other equipment such as radio transmitters and earphones were locally sourced,” he said.
Re: the "biased, negative attention applied to the accused by local media".... They basically eviscerated the man - you were expecting maybe...(Read More)
Joe12, here you go again, your reading skills seem limited, here is what you should have read "its captain, who radioed in for a full flight safe...(Read More)
Passed by the Sam Kong underpass works today.
Just 15 working days until 09 April,( exclusive Sundays) and still so much to do.
Not the slightest ch...(Read More)
This irresponsible little t*rd should have all sentences and parole revoiked, and be sent to prison for 5 years...no reductions...no nothing... just 5...(Read More)
Joe12, Most of us would not have replied to Kurt, but you seem to have found the need, most of us would know he was referring to "“However, I s...(Read More)
The strict enforcement is to cover the key traffic rules and regulations: driving on footpaths; driving without a license; driving against the traffic...(Read More)
For God's sake stop shilly shallying. Lock her up like she deserved 5 years ago, but tack a few more years on her sentence...(Read More)
Unbelievable lenient sentence? She has a clear disregard for human life & authority? It seems she has not shown any remorse! ...(Read More)
I use this opportunity to highlight what , as resident, I consider scandalous ,the privates beaches where you cannot go at all and the pay beaches lik...(Read More)
I love that, The guy says "I think it is time to fine 'all' people that break the laws" makes me wonder which ones they fine now ? ...(Read More)