2016-01~02
http://www.laprensasa.com/309_america-in-english/3608008_china-and-southeast-asia-a-relationship-of-light-and-shade.html

China and Southeast Asia: A relationship of light and shade :: La Prensa :: America in English
Bangkok, Feb 6 (EFE).- The relationship between China and the countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) has been marked in the last two decades by mutual benefits through trade, but also by territorial disputes and the growing hegemony of Beijing.
With a relationship that dates back several centuries, China has tightened its ties with ASEAN since the Communist country's economic reforms of the 1970s, and after the end of the Cold War in the 1990s.
With a trade balance of around $379.2 billion with ASEAN from January to October 2015, China is the region's main economic partner.
The Asian giant invests millions of dollars in infrastructure, provides millions of tourist visits, and uses its authority to exert influence over some countries in the region.
But the recent disappearance of two Chinese dissidents under unexplained circumstances in Thailand, and their reappearance in China, has raised suspicions and concerns regarding Beijing's influence.
Gui Minhai, a Chinese-Swiss dissident bookseller, disappeared last October from Thailand and, weeks later, reappeared in China on television confessing his alleged involvement in a traffic accident 12 years earlier that killed a young woman.
Gui, who was working on a book about the love affairs of Chinese President Xi Jinping, is one of five missing persons linked to Hong Kong-based independent publishing house Mighty Current, and had published material critical of China.
According to The New York Times, another Chinese dissident and journalist, Li Xin, also disappeared in Thailand in early January, after trying to go into exile in the U.S. to flee his country.
An Amnesty International researcher confirmed to EFE in Beijing that the journalist, who had worked as an informer and wanted to change his life, is residing at an unspecified location in the Chinese territory.
The Thai government, led by the military after the coup of 2014, also extradited to China two Chinese dissidents with refugee status last November and a few months before that dozens of Muslim Uighurs, an ethnic minority from Western China, where some of the group are accused of waging a separatist conflict.
Cambodia, which receives million-dollar donations from the Chinese government, is also considered a country close to Beijing, especially for its reluctance to agree on a common position in ASEAN on territorial disputes with Beijing in the South China Sea.
Chinese professor Yang Baoyun, of Bangkok's Thammasat University, prefers to talk about "cultural, political and economic relations" rather than "influence" because he does not believe that China wants to "impose" on ASEAN countries.
"Southeast Asian countries are very important for the foreign policy of China, which seeks a good relationship with neighbors in the political, economic, development, cultural field", Yang, an expert on China-ASEAN relations, told EFE.
The Chinese academic highlighted the network of roads and railways in Southeast Asia, which are part of Beijing's project of creating a network of communication by land and sea through the ancient "Silk Road" traversing the Middle East and Russia towards Europe.
China has also built gas and oil pipelines to transport these products from the Indian Ocean to the Chinese province of Yunnan through Myanmar.
In the South China Sea, the Chinese government claims virtually all of the sea and the islands grouped together mostly in the Spratly and Paracel archipelagos, while Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia are also asserting their sovereignty over part of the sea and island territories.
According to Yang, this maritime dispute is largely due to tensions caused by the increased importance of Beijing in the region, which is challenging the hegemony that the U.S. exercised in the last half century in the Pacific Ocean.
The only issue that the Chinese professor prefers not to comment on are the cases of Li Xin and Gui Minhai, which are a cause of serious concern among organizations championing human rights.