2016-01~02
http://www.thenews.com.pk/print/95963-Urdu-mobile-App-launched-for-CPEC

Urdu mobile App launched for CPEC | Pakistan | thenews.com.pk
ISLAMABAD: First ever Urdu Mobile App launched for promoting China-Pakistan media and culture exchanges and launching ceremony of Watching Urdu Mobile APP was held here on Wednesday.
It is the first Urdu Mobile App in China. Minister for Information Pervez Rasheed, Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan HE Sun Weidong, Ji Wenlin from Cyberspace Administration of China, Luo Fuyong, General of Xinjiang Information Office Director, and representatives of Chinese companies also attended the event.
Minister for Information Pervez Rasheed said that as the witness of the continuing friendly relation of Pakistan and China, and all-weather strategic cooperative partnership, he was delighted to observe the launch of Watching Urdu Mobile App in Pakistan.
“It indicated that our traditional friendship has been upgraded. I am sure this will pay much more important role in economic and culture exchanges of china and Pakistan,” he added. Earlier, Chinese Ambassador said, “I am pleased to attend the launching ceremony of Urdu Mobile app of Watching Media, which is hosted by Information Office of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.”
He said, “I would like to extend my sincere thanks to the efforts by Senator Mushahid Hussain and Pak-China Institute for their wonderful arrangements and warm welcome to DG Luo Fuyong and the delegation.”
He said China and Pakistan are connected geographically and culturally. The two people have forged a long-term and profound friendship. Currently, the rapid implementation of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor has connected he two side more closely and created favourable opportunities for strengthening bilateral exchanged and cooperation.
“The aspirations of Pakistani people from all walks of life to understand China are on the rise,” he added. Talking about Urdu Mobile App of ‘Watching Media’, Sun Weidong has said it’s a new media to promote “the Belt and Road” initiative. It is aimed to forge an authoritative information platform for ‘the Belt and Road’ initiative as well as an international platform for high-level meetings among politician and businessmen.
Director General of Xinjiang Information Office said that Pakistan and China are neighbours and brothers. He said watching Urdu Mobile App has its origins in Xinjiang  and is operating in Pakistan.  “Watching Multi-language Mobile App could be launched among the countries along the belt and road routes,” he hoped.
Media Forum on CPEC President Hafiz Tahir Khalil said that Watching Urdu Mobile App will definitely improve relation of Pakistan and China. This App would help Pakistani people understand modern China and will give answers to their question about CPEC.