2016-01~02
http://tribune.com.pk/story/1038007/chinas-xinjiang-wants-more-mingling-of-ethnic-groups/

China's Xinjiang wants more mingling of ethnic groups - The Express Tribune

Residents select turbans at a shop in downtown Urumqi, Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, May 1, 2014. PHOTO: REUTERS

BEIJING: The different ethnic groups who live in China’s violence-prone far western region of Xinjiang should make friends with each other to improve trust between them, the Chinese government’s top official there was quoted as saying on Monday.
Hundreds of people have been killed in violence in Xinjiang in the past few years. The government blames the unrest on militants who want to establish an independent state called East Turkestan for minority Uighurs, a mostly Muslim people who speak a Turkic language and hail from Xinjiang.
Zhang Chunxian, Xinjiang’s Communist Party boss, said during a meeting in Xinjiang’s capital, Urumqi, that more effort was needed to boost ethnic harmony.
“We must, starting from officials in leadership positions, broadly develop different ethnicities making friends with each other,” Zhang said in comments carried by the official Xinjiang Daily.
Xinjiang needs a society in which “all ethnicities respect, trust, love and help one another”, he said, without detailing how this might be achieved.
Zhang made similar comments in November while in the Uighur heartland of southern Xinjiang, where he also said he would push the study of Mandarin, the national language.
Many Uighurs chafe at pressure to take on Chinese customs and language, which has often been coupled with curbs on their own religious and cultural practices. China denies having any repressive policies.
However, few Han Chinese in Xinjiang learn the Uighur language or study Islam.
Speaking about religious policy, Zhang said the party would continue to push in the direction of “Sinification” to root out extremism and guide the faithful to follow “correct” beliefs.
Uighurs have traditionally followed a moderate form of Islam but many have begun adopting practices more common in Saudi Arabia, such as full-face veils for women, as China has stepped up a security crackdown in recent years.
Exiles and many rights groups say the real cause of the unrest is heavy-handed Chinese policies, including curbs on Uighur culture, and a dearth of economic opportunity.
The site showed a photo of four hooded fighters on horseback riding beneath the flag of Islamic State
Operations DIG Haider Ashraf says search operations also serve as a deterrent. “In that, we have been successful”
Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ.


This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, redistributed or derived from.
Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2016 The Express Tribune.
Technical feedback? [email protected]
