2016-01~02
http://www.womenofchina.cn/womenofchina/html1/features/education/1601/585-1.htm

Unis Pledge to Enroll More Xinjiang Minority Students - All China Women's Federation
Xinjiang ethnic minority students on a train from Urumqi to Nanjian, capital of east China's Jiangsu Province, before the start of the new semester [File Photo: Xinhua/Ma Hongguang]
Chinese universities are expected to enroll more ethnic minority students from northwest China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in the coming years, say officials.
According to a cooperation agreement signed between the local education bureau with central government departments and other provincial and municipal education authorities, some 10,000 Xinjiang ethnic minority students will be enrolled by 96 universities directly affiliated to the central government and 227 provincial or municipal universities by 2020.
The targets have been made as part of the seventh such cooperation agreement signed since the State launched the scheme to support the development of ethnic minority talents in 1989.
The scale of enrollment has expanded from the initial 800 to the current 6,800, with universities participating in the scheme rising from the original 54 to currently over 300.
In the past two decades, more than 60,000 students have been recruited and nearly 30,000 graduated under the initiative. Most of the graduates have returned to Xinjiang after finishing, working in various sectors including political and economic sectors, as well as in agriculture, culture, education, science and health.
The scheme plays a significant role in developing talents in Xinjiang and promoting communication between people in Xinjiang and those in other provinces and cities, officials stated.
(Source: People's Daily & ts.cn/Translated and edited by Women of China)
Please understand that womenofchina.cn,a non-profit, information-communication website, cannot reach every writer before using articles and images. For copyright issues, please contact us by emailing: website@womenofchina.cn. The articles published and opinions expressed on this website represent the opinions of writers and are not necessarily shared by womenofchina.cn. 
Copyright 2005-2014 All rights reserved. Women's Foreign Language Publications of China.  Email: website@womenofchina.cn