2016-01~02
http://cjonline.com/life/arts-entertainment/2016-01-28/review-topeka-symphony-offers-enchanting-journey-far-east

Review: Topeka Symphony offers enchanting journey to 'The Far East' | CJOnline.com
The Topeka Symphony began the new year with a musical tour of the Far East, featuring music from Russia, the Middle East and China. The program of familiar and new compositions showcased the ensemble’s versatility and personality.
Under conductor Kyle Wiley Pickett, the Topeka Symphony opened its Jan. 23 concert with the well-known strains of Alexander Borodin’s “Polovtsian Dances” from “Prince Igor.” The orchestra’s lush sound captured the exotic, bright tones of the piece, familiar to many audiences as music adapted by Robert Wright and George Forrest for “Kismet.”
The centerpiece of the first half of the concert was “Chinese Folk Dance Suite” by Chen Yi, who is on the faculty of the Conservatory of Music and Dance at the University of Missouri-Kansas City.
First performed by The Women’s Philharmonic in San Francisco, Chen Yi’s composition features solo violin and orchestra in three movements inspired by a wide variety of Chinese folk music and is stunningly compelling. Guest artist violinist Terrie Baune has performed the “Chinese Folk Dance Suite” many times since its premiere.
The suite begins with “Lion Dance,” featuring traditional Chinese drum and percussion instruments in a steady rhythmic background as the violin soars above it in imitation of the Chinese trumpet called the suona. The movement opens with a startling call from the violin that eventually reaches a frenetic pace, suggesting the tumult of the dance.
The second movement, “Yangko,” again finds its foundation in traditional rhythmic patterns. However, in this case, Chen calls for the members of the orchestra to be the rhythm section, physically voicing percussive sounds under the violin’s melody.
The third movement, “Muquam,” returns the suite to the expansive sounds of the traditional music of the Uygars in the Xinjiang province. It is marked by ever-increasing melodic complexity culminating in a sustained cadenza in the violin.
Baune and Pickett produced a beautifully balanced duet between the soloist and orchestra that actually seemed to create a seamless connection. Baune’s fiercely individual and skillful performance was never diminished in the potentially overwhelming and complex orchestral involvement, nor was the orchestra ever relegated to background accompaniment.
The second half of the concert was given over to Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov’s “Scheherazade,” a perennial favorite that relies heavily on the skill of the concertmaster who plays the unifying Scheherazade motif. Zsolt Eder was up to the task, with his sensitive execution of the dreamy, magical musical line that ties the four movements (Scheherazade’s “tales”) together.
This piece is an orchestral smorgasbord, especially of horns and winds, all of whom were exquisite in both principal solos and in sections. The music is as intricately woven as Scheherazade’s tales themselves, calling for exceptional musical presence and commitment by the entire ensemble. It was a grand, stately, energetic and utterly absorbing performance.