2016-01~02
http://patch.com/new-york/southampton/open-rehearsal-lisa-ross-watermill-center-0

Open Rehearsal | Lisa Ross @ The Watermill Center | Patch
New York City-based visual artist Lisa Ross, in collaboration with China’s renowned Uyghur musician Perhat Khaliq (Paerhati Halike – Pinyin name), traditional Uyghur dancer Mukaddas Mijit, and contemporary Indonesian-American choreographer Indah Walsh will come together for a residency at the Watermill Center in March 2016. They will develop a live performance in dialogue with the video, RISE that Ross made after traveling to the Xinjiang region of China over the course of 10 years. The video shows people waking up on rooftops and coming into consciousness at dawn, which literally and metaphorically is at the heart of this work. These artists join to explore the interaction between traditional and contemporary forms of movement and sound as well as internal and external control over one’s body.
Lisa Ross was born in New York. Her work revolves around the liminal spaces in which faith, culture and abstraction meet. Her large format, immersive landscapes explore the skin of the land revealing the texture of culture, spirit, myth, and in time, political realities inextricably bound
to place emerge. Ross has traveled extensively for her work and in 2013 had a book published titled Living Shrines of Uyghur China by The Monacelli Press, distributed internationally by Random House. The artist’s work has been shown in the US and abroad including The Rubin Museum of Art, NY; Fotografiska Museum, Stockholm; Brunei gallery, SOAS, University of London; University of California at Berkeley; Harvard University; and Rencontres d’Arles Festival, France. Ross was commissioned by the CICRP in Marseilles to make a body of work in Azerbaijan.
Ross’s work received numerous reviews in The New York Times, The New Yorker, New York Magazine, Artforum, The Wall Street Journal and many other print and online journals. Her book has received enthusiastic responses in The New York Review of Books, The Los Angeles Review of Books and London Review of Books. Ross received an MFA from Columbia University and a BA from Sarah Lawrence College.
The Watermill Center is committed to providing accessible programs and services for all patrons and artists with disabilities. For further information about any accessibility issues or needs, please contact us at +1 212 253 7484 or email us atinfo@watermillcenter.org