2016-01~02
http://www.worldbulletin.net/asia-pacific/168680/china-jails-eturkestan-democracy-activist-for-19-years

China jails E.Turkestan democracy activist for 19 years | Asia-Pacific | Worldbulletin News
China has jailed an activist in its volatile northwestern East Turkestan region for 19 years over online posts criticising the ruling Communist Party and interviews with overseas media, his lawyer said Friday.
A court in the regional capital Urumqi found Zhang Haitao guilty of "incitement to subvert state power" and "illegally providing intelligence overseas", his lawyer Li Dunyong said.
China regularly jails dissidents who have spoken out against the Communist Party, but observers said the sentence handed down on Sunday was unusually harsh.
The Chinese-occupied East Turkestan, home to the mainly Muslim Uighur minority, has in recent years seen a security crackdown prompted by clashes in the region that have killed hundreds.
China says it faces a terrorist threat, while rights groups say restrictions on Islam have created ethnic tensions and that police violence often goes unreported. 
China tightly limits domestic media from publishing information about East Turkestan, and foreign journalists are regularly obstructed while reporting there.
The 15 year sentence for "inciting subversion" -- the maximum possible for the charge -- was "about some postings (Zhang) made online... they were about government policies, mainly in East Turkestan," Li said.
"The postings advocated democracy, and opposed dictatorship," he added. "The things he did don't constitute a crime".
Zhang received an additional four year sentence on a charge of "legally providing information to outsiders", Li said, adding: "He provided information to foreign media about events in East Turkestan".
Maya Wang, a China researcher at Human Rights Watch, said: "It's quite unusual to have that maximum sentence". 
The verdict is more than the 11-year jailing given to writer Liu Xiaobo in 2009 on the same charge, over a petition calling for democratic reforms. Liu was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize a year later.
The Communist Party does not tolerate open challenges to its right to rule, and President Xi Jinping has overseen a crackdown on activists since coming to power in 2012.
A court in Urumqi jailed Uighur academic Ilham Tohti for life for "separatism" in 2104 over a website he ran that was often critical of official ethnic policies.
Zhang's sentence comes in the same month that China formally arrested more than 10 human rights lawyers and legal staff on "state-subversion" related charges.
Zhang's lawyer Li added: "The sentence is very heavy. But in East Turkestan verdicts are always stronger than in the rest of the country".
Two maintenance workers have been killed after a train in Singapore hit the workers
Suu Kyi to take one of four positions in new cabinet, with Minister of Foreign Affairs tipped to be the likely choice
Deputy Foreign Minister urges global community to push for international peacekeeping force to resolve long-standing conflict
Authorities say Chinese coast guard ships prevented Indonesian patrol boat from seizing vessel accused of fishing illegally around Natuna Islands
The Southeast Asian country claims that smuggling networks are not increasingly using Thailand as a transit point for asylum seekers fleeing the Syrian conflict and hoping to reach Europe
Htin Kyaw states country would save about $4 million during the government's five-year tenure by reducing numbers of ministries from 36 to 21
President Nazarbayev's Nur Otan party won 82 percent of votes in Sunday's election
North Korea has fired a missile and several other short-range projectiles into the waters off its east coast.
'We released 86 more Indian fishermen today,' Superintendent of Karachi's Malir prison Raja Mumtaz says
President Nursultan Nazarbaev's Nur Otan party faces no real competition for places in the 107-seat Mazhilis, the lower house
Radullan Sahiron has had $1 million bounty on his head since involvement in kidnapping of US tourists in 2001
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, a private organization that tracks airstrikes, that between 332 and 359 people have been killed in air attacks by the US in January and February making it five times the number from the first two months of 2015.
Two Muslim men have been hanged after being attacked by Hindu extremists in northeast India
'I am going abroad for treatment but will return to face the cases against me,' former Pakistani president says
With heightened tensions still clouding the peninsula, Pyongyang risks further condemnation by continuing banned ballistic missile testing
For the first time Pakistan is set to participate in a joint probe with India of this kind
China jails 45 in East Turkestan for 'illegal border crossing'
US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

Gunman killed in attack on Mali hotel hosting EU mission

US wants Russia to not act 'unilaterally' on Syria truce

OPEC, non-OPEC producers to meet on April 17 in Qatar

NASA astronaut to return to Earth after year in space
