2016-01~02
http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/islamabad/09-Mar-2016/china-s-xinjiang-province-to-provide-scholarships-to-numl

China’s Xinjiang province to provide scholarships to NUML
ISLAMABAD: A high-powered Chinese delegation led by Xinjiang Foreign Affairs Director General (DG) WU Xian on Tuesday visited National University of Modern Languages (NUML).
The delegation met with NUML Rector Major General (r) Ziaud Din Najam, said a press release issued.
The delegation included Sinotrance Ltd Deputy Secretary Yoan Jianman, Xinjiang TV President Yang Hongxin, and Journal of Xinjiang Foreign Affairs Assistant Director Zhan Kongchao, while NUML Director General (DG) Brig Riaz Ahmed Gondal, Director Administration Brig (r) Ziaul Hassan Sahi and Registrar Brig (r) Aminullah Khan also attended the meeting.
During the meeting, Chinese delegates said that China is keen to enhance cooperation in language training and cultural promotion and is ready to provide scholarships for NUML students.
Xinjiang Foreign Affairs DG WU Xian said that his province would assist NUML in setting up NUML International Centre of Education in Xinjiang Normal University under China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) as signed by the both the countries.
He said that Xinjiang is in the process of signing various memorandums of understanding (MoUs) with NUML regarding students exchange programmes, construction of library and enhancement of mutual cooperation.
NUML Rector Zia ud Din Najam briefed the delegations about the university and said that as CPEC is in full swing and more students are getting admissions in Chinese language courses and to provide them excellent skills, NUML needs native Chinese teachers and Xinjiang could help NUML in this regard. 

 ISLAMABAD: Opposition parties in parliament on Monday took the government to task for allowing ...

 ISLAMABAD: The nation is going to celebrate the 76th anniversary of Pakistan Day tomorrow ...

 ISLAMABAD: It was a day filled with jubilations, honour and excitement for the students of Flagship ...