2016-01~02
http://www.dailystar.com.lb/News/World/2016/Jan-06/330466-indonesia-turns-to-china-as-ethnic-uighurs-join-would-be-extremists.ashx

Indonesia turns to China as ethnic Uighurs join would-be extremists | News , World | THE DAILY STAR
Indonesian police officers put a police line outside a house where a suspected militant was arrested in Bekasi, West Java, Thursday, Dec. 24, 2015. (AP Photo)
We invite all our readers to share with us their views and comments about this article.
Disclaimer: Comments submitted by third parties on this site are the sole responsibility of the individual(s) whose content is submitted. The Daily Star accepts no responsibility for the content of comment(s), including, without limitation, any error, omission or inaccuracy therein. Please note that your email address will NOT appear on the site.

Alert: If you are facing problems with posting comments, please note that you must verify your email with Disqus prior to posting a comment. follow this link to make sure your account meets the requirements. (http://bit.ly/vDisqus)

Indonesian authorities are working with their counterparts in China to stem a flow of ethnic Uighur militants seeking to join Islamist extremists in the world's most populous Muslim country, Indonesia's counterterrorism chief said.Saud Usman Nasution's comments come amid mounting concern in Indonesia about possible attacks by sympathisers of ISIS and follows the arrest of 13 men across the island of Java, including a Muslim Uighur with a suicide-bomb vest.The appearance among Indonesian militant networks of Uighurs, who come from the Xinjiang region in far-western China, is likely to add to Beijing's concerns that exiles will return to their homeland as experienced and trained extremists.Indonesia's security forces have given Santoso, who styles himself as the commander of ISIS in Indonesia, until Jan. 9 to surrender along with his force of about 40 men on the far-flung island of Sulawesi.Officials believe there are more than 1,000 ISIS supporters in Indonesia, and say that between 100 and 300 have returned from Syria, though this includes women and children.