2016-01~02
http://aleteia.org/2016/02/25/chinese-communist-party-planning-new-controls-on-catholic-church/

Chinese Communist Party Planning New Controls on Catholic Church - World - Aleteia.org – Worldwide Catholic Network Sharing Faith Resources for those seeking Truth – Aleteia.org
Islamic State is "genocidal by self-proclamation, by ideology, and by actions," Secretary of State declares
Situation is bad, but not bad enough to grab headlines from other trouble spots, so funding is slow
One lesson of Christ's passion has suddenly really hit home
Just in time for Holy Week, embracing the Church for its density: "There is a 'there' there."
"Only where there is mercy does cruelty end, only with mercy do evil and violence end."
Pope Benedict XVI helps a girl out, as she ponders the electoral shenanigans
Wife of Ronald Reagan led anti-drug campaign and supported embryonic stem cell research for Alzheimer's
Here's how to maintain your inner peace while the world around you gives in to distrust, suspicion, anger and paranoia
More stores refuse to compete with retailers whose "biggest sale of the year" is taking over Thanksgiving.
Peter Harteveld says his life is normal and wonderful and every bit as valuable as yours
Each generation embodies their parents’ core values — but nakedly, and stripped of all pretenses
I’m glad someone told me her story so I could feel some empathy for her
“The Holy Father commends the souls of the dead to the mercy of Almighty God.”
Pictures and full text of the Holy Father’s opening words of Holy Week
“The Lord will wipe away every tear and deliver us from every fear”
Our worship must reflect the cross, with horizontal outreach to each other, and vertical outreach to heaven
Fr. Mike Schmitz tell us how to make the coming week spiritually rich, using a method of some Franciscan nuns
If you're feeling like there are too many shadows, Holy Week brings the Light
Never before had the Easter message meant so much to me.
The Gospel shows that our dignity and worth is based on the reality that we are daughters and sons of the Most High
Some hear the voice of the beloved and resist, because it means changing
In the Transfiguration, Jesus is empowered to continue his journey and mission
From founding an alternative "green" community to becoming a Trappist monk
The Church has given us much to consider about this "silent saint"
The reason St. Paddy's Day is so happy (besides the green beer)
Practical ways to cultivate a mild and humble spirit ...
Gratitude, respect and keeping the relationship strong: Here are a few secret recipes
Our final lesson is the most important one to learn
A shared (bad) habit, a Lenten promise and a friendship remembered
In the interests of the world, all roads still lead to Rome ...
Alzheimer's had already taken so much, so why should I also take away my mother's dignity?
May allow researchers to design strategies to promote brain functioning and improve quality of life
Should we do away with hot cross buns while we're at it?
The monks who gave us beautifully illuminated Gospel manuscripts may have more secrets to tell
This part of the world is rich in history and important in salvation history
Sfingi (Italian cream puffs) are a traditional way to celebrate Jesus' earthly father
Launching the weekly advice column she was born to write
You don't need green beer to have a good time ...
The Chinese Communist Party has made clear its latest strategy for controlling religious groups across China. Beijing has started to assign certificates detailing the secular name, religious name, national ID card number and a new, unique faith number to Buddhist monks across the country.
By the end of this year authorities will require the same of Catholic and Taoist priests, state-run broadcaster CCTV and nationalist tabloid Global Times reported earlier this month. Protestantism and Islam — the other two of China’s five officially recognized religions — will surely face orders to follow suit in the near future.
Those religious personnel without certificates will be barred from engaging in religious activities, according to the State Administration for Religious Affairs, the government body that manages religious activity across China.
Beijing is clearly taking yet another major step to control religion as President Xi Jinping’s rule becomes ever more regimented and intolerant of perceived threats to the political status quo.
But the latest blueprint for China’s pacification and domination is likely to represent a miscalculation by the all-powerful Party. Here’s why:
In the nearly three years since Xi became president in March 2013, burqas have been banned in Xinjiang. Security forces have shut down “illegal madrassas” arrested their operators while “saving” minors inside who are not allowed in mosques across this vast region of deserts and snow-capped mountains. Recently, Beijing has spoken of banning loosely defined “terrorist clothing” in Xinjiang.
More than 1,500 church crosses have been removed in prosperous Zhejiang province, and now party officials are showing up at Mass to quell dissent against this campaign. And in Tibet, monks and nuns complain that authorities have banned images of their spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, while forcing monasteries and convents to instead display images of Xi and other party leaders.
Frustration among China’s hundreds of millions of religious believers appear to be running higher than at any time since Mao Zedong’s death in 1976.
The Chinese Communist Party is restricting, harassing, torturing and in some cases even killing members of these religious groups in the name of preserving the Party and maintaining stability.
But in always trying to control, the Party risks creating a self-fulfilling prophecy in which religious groups begin to find ways to undermine Beijing’s tight grip.
The state-run Global Times last week made a rare admission of this problem in a surprisingly even-handed assessment of the new religious certification scheme.
“The certificate will become a tool for government officials to easily veto those religious practitioners they don’t favor,” said Liu Peng, director of the Pushi Institute for Social Sciences in Beijing, one of a number of criticisms aired in the article.
Priests within China’s state-backed Catholic Church have already told ucanews.com that instead of seeking to obtain the necessary certification, they may instead go underground. This is telling. What this new scheme aims to do is further divide and conquer, it makes all religious personnel jump through yet more hoops to find favor with authorities to practice faith in an increasingly state-controlled environment.
But for many this will be the tipping point: previously compliant priests, monks and nuns will instead choose to operate outside of the party-controlled system. This is the opposite of the scheme’s intended aim from Beijing’s point of view.
The certificate scheme therefore represents another decisive move that splits the church and other faiths depending on whether their adherents toe the party line or not, and it creates ever more faithful that fall into the latter category. They are pushed underground.
Given the Communist Party almost never uses laissez-faire and gentle persuasion when it can instead exert force, there is little to suggest that Beijing will back down on this ill-considered scheme. By its very nature, the Party simply doesn’t consider views counter to its own, and its kneejerk reaction is always to use force over finesse. No wonder the Party remains loathed by the majority of China’s 300 million faithful Democrats in Hong Kong, an increasing majority in Taiwan and much of the civilized world. No wonder that after 67 years of rule on the Chinese mainland, the Party remains paranoid and apparently so weak that it continues to censor almost every view counter to its own. No wonder the party remains so petrified of people of faith.
That the already obvious failings of this new religious certification scheme have been aired in the state media remains the only cause for optimism.
Otherwise, everything points to yet another major confrontation between the party and China’s 300 million religious believers. And the result can only be more harm caused to these faithful — and to the ever-fragile party itself.
When live production finishes, area churches, including St. Louis Cathedral, will open their doors to evangelize
Just in time for Holy Week, embracing the Church for its density: "There is a 'there' there."
"Only where there is mercy does cruelty end, only with mercy do evil and violence end."
The reason St. Paddy's Day is so happy (besides the green beer)