2016-01~02
http://circuitwall.com/us-will-counter-isis-terror-plotters-in-any-country-obama/

US will counter ISIS terror plotters in any country: Obama | CircuitWall
Obama: ISIS Wants To Kill US Ground Troops. Don’t Take The Bait.
 published: 08 Dec 2015
 views: 5211
President Obama gave a rare Oval Office speech over the weekend. He talked about the threat of ISIL and what we should do. Cenk Uygur, host of the The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below.
“President Barack Obama on Sunday laid out the most sweeping defense yet of his strategy to defeat Islamic State, but he offered no U.S. policy shift to confront what he called a “new phase” in the terrorist threat after a mass shooting in California.
In a rare Oval Office address, Obama sought to calm a U.S. public increasingly jittery about the fight against Islamist militancy that once appeared to be waged overseas. His remarks failed to quiet Republican critics who have long accused him of underestimating the militants’ strength and staying power.
Speaking in a measured tone, Obama used his 14-minute nationally televised appearance to draw a careful line about what he would and would not do. He pledged, for example, to “hunt down terrorist plotters” anywhere they are. But he insisted: “We should not be drawn once more into a long and costly ground war in Iraq or Syria.”
Obama spoke just four days after U.S.-born Syed Rizwan Farook, 28, and his Pakistani wife, Tashfeen Malik, 29, opened fire on a holiday party for civil servants in San Bernardino, California, killing 14 people. The pair were killed hours later in a shootout with police.
Obama condemned the attack as “an act of terrorism designed to kill innocent people.” But he also said San Bernardino showed that “the terrorist threat has evolved into a new phase” as Islamic State used …
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Currently you have JavaScript disabled. In order to post comments, please make sure JavaScript and Cookies are enabled, and reload the page. Click here for instructions on how to enable JavaScript in your browser.