2016-01~02
http://www.newindianexpress.com/columns/Chinese-Diplomatic-Designs-Show-its-Duplicity-on-Terror/2016/01/16/article3227978.ece

Chinese Diplomatic Designs Show its Duplicity on Terror - The New Indian Express
Reacting to the terrorist attack on the Pathankot air base, China’s Ambassador to India Le Yucheng proclaimed that China “shares” the “feeling of anger” of the people of India at the attack. He added, “China is also a victim of terrorist acts. We strongly condemn such attacks, wherever it takes place.” Needless to say, China’s foreign ministry also echoed the usual Pakistani line, suggesting that the attack could be attributed to forces out to derail bilateral talks between two countries. 
There is an important question the Chinese need to answer. If China is so strongly opposed to terrorism, as it claims, why does it continue to support terrorist groups like the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM)? China consistently opposes resolutions, which are introduced in the UN to get these organisations and their fronts like the Jamaat-ud-Dawa declared as international terrorist organisations, and thereafter face international sanctions. Moreover, when the Taliban ruled Afghanistan, China was one of the few countries that maintained direct contact with Taliban leader Mullah Omar. It even offered economic assistance, through projects like the establishment of communication networks in Kabul, to what was regarded as an international pariah state.
China maintained clandestine contacts with the Taliban leadership, even after it was declared a terrorist organisation by the UN, following the 9/11 terrorist attacks. These contacts in Quetta and elsewhere were facilitated by the ISI. It was these contacts that have led to China now acting as an intermediary in a bid to bring about “reconciliation” between the Taliban and Afghan government. The aim of this Sino-Pakistan collusion is to get the Taliban a significant role in the governance of Afghanistan. While the Taliban has never attacked Chinese nationals and interests in Afghanistan, it has repeatedly targeted and killed Indians and attacked Indian diplomatic and consular missions, with ISI collaboration.
The question is why does China follow these policies? The answer lies in the fact that it finds such policies expedient in ensuring that Islamic rebels fleeing persecution in its Xinjiang Province are not provided support in any neighbouring country. The Muslims in Xinjiang are being deliberately reduced into a minority by a massive influx of Han Chinese from the east. China also thereby ensures that its “all-weather friend” Pakistan uses influence with the Taliban to see that Beijing’s interests and nationals are not damaged or attacked in Afghanistan. China is involved in oil and gas projects in northwestern Afghanistan and committed to building a huge copper mine in northeastern Afghanistan.
All these developments flow from the fact that Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang face sever repression. They are banned from fasting in Ramadan, and Islamic beards, headwear and clothing are banned in parts of the province. In far western parts of Xinjiang, residents are also banned from wearing burqas in public. The armed uprising that has followed this repression has been ruthlessly suppressed. Pakistan also helps China in ensuring that despite this repression, Muslim separatists from Xinjiang receive no support on territory controlled by it and by the Taliban. Amnesty International has said that Uighur Muslims face widespread discrimination in employment, housing and educational opportunities apart from curtailment of religious freedom and political marginalisation.
The recent diplomatic initiatives taken by China on Afghanistan are designed to ensure a permanent and significant role for Pakistan in that country. China’s hope is that in return, Pakistan will naturally ensure that Islamic separatists in Xinjiang receive no support of haven in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and that the Taliban does not directly or indirectly support attacks on Chinese nationals and interests. In return, China supports Pakistan by ensuring that anti-India groups like the JeM are not declared international terrorist organizations and subjected to international sanctions by the UN. dadpartha@gmail.com
Disclaimer: We respect your thoughts and views! But we need to be judicious while moderating your comments. All the comments will be moderated by the NIE editorial. Abstain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks. Try to avoid outside hyperlinks inside the comment. Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines.
Copyright © 2016, The New Indian Express. All rights reserved.