2016-01~02
http://www.todayonline.com/chinaindia/china/beijing-under-growing-pressure-help-promote-afghan-peace-talks

Beijing under growing pressure to help promote Afghan peace talks | TODAYonline
BEIJING — As a bloody offensive by the Taliban spreads in Afghanistan, and with United States combat operations there officially ended, anxious Chinese leaders find themselves under pressure to take a more active role in the long-stalled peace process, according to scholars and current and former diplomats.
For observers of Chinese diplomacy, that kind of commitment is surprising, since China often tries to take a hands-off approach in regions and nations at war.
“The big backdrop is that the US will have withdrawn most of its troops from Afghanistan with the anti-terrorism mission unfinished, which is leaving the country in a mess,” said Professor Du Youkang, who worked in Islamabad, Pakistan, as a diplomat and is now the director of the South Asia Studies Center at Fudan University in Shanghai. “Bombings have never stopped, even in the capital. Afghanistan shares a border with China, so in this case China must get involved to promote the talks and to secure the stability in the region.”
Yet if China is to play a productive role in peace talks with the Taliban, say officials and scholars, it will have to convince its ally, Pakistan, that an Afghanistan at peace and engaged politically and economically with all regional powers, including India, is in Pakistan’s interests.
Afghan Foreign Minister Salahuddin Rabbani began an official four-day visit in Beijing yesterday, and the topic of bringing Afghanistan’s warring factions to the negotiating table is expected to be the priority in his meetings with Chinese leaders.
Mr Rabbani’s trip signals that China has a stake in the resumption of peace talks, which are still at an early stage and stalled months ago.
One reason for China’s engagement is that a stable Afghanistan could become a critical transportation hub and market for Chinese goods and, eventually, another investment opportunity for President Xi Jinping’s grand economic plans for Central Asia.
Yet security concerns loom alongside the economic motive. China has become increasingly worried about the insurgent violence in its western frontier region of Xinjiang, and officials say that the Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking, mostly Sunni Muslim ethnic group, might be falling under the influence of radical elements from outside China, motivating some of them to carry out attacks in Xinjiang.
Since 2001, Uighurs have fought in Afghanistan, and Afghan officials say they have told Beijing about the dozens of Uighurs that have been captured there recently, even if some foreign analysts say China’s expressed fears of organised terrorist violence in Xinjiang are overblown.
Uighur militants in Afghanistan have not been neutralised yet, said Prof Du, because “the government has not been able to assert control over all of its sovereign area”.