2016-01~02
http://www.pcworld.idg.com.au/article/592720/single-group-hackers-targets-uyghur-tibetan-activists/

Single group of hackers targets Uyghur, Tibetan activists - PC World Australia
The information sought would be of most interest to a nation-state, Palo Alto said in a new report
Jeremy Kirk (IDG News Service) on 25 January, 2016 12:45
A years-long campaign of seemingly disparate cyberattacks against Tibetan and Uyghur activists likely comes from a single group of hackers, according to a seven-month study by Palo Alto Networks.
The computer security company also concluded that the information stolen by the group, nicknamed Scarlet Mimic, would be of little interest to entities other than a nation-state.
"The majority of attacks we identified were targeting Uyghurs or Tibetans or advocates thereof," Olson said.
Several other security companies, including Kaspersky Lab and Trend Micro, and Citizen Lab, part of the University of Toronto, have studied attacks against the activist groups, which have long been at odds with the Chinese government. Palo Alto's report noted, however, that it did not have direct evidence linking the attacks to China.
Palo Alto undertook a study of forensic clues related to many attacks seen by security companies.
"All of these [attacks] are actually connected, they're all coming from the same group," said Ryan Olson, intelligence director with Palo Alto. "They all share infrastructure with each other, and they're all using the same tools. This is really a concerted effort by some organization."
Olson said the research also indicated the attackers have broadened their targets in an effort to gain more information.
"One of the interesting shifts that we've seen in who they're targeting is that we saw two attacks against government organizations, both of whom are interested in tracking terrorists and activists," Olson said.
Those attacks have been directed at Russia and India, according to Palo Alto's report. They're interesting because government organizations tend to be much better at defending cyberattacks than activists.
Scarlet Mimic usually targets victims via email, with so-called "decoy" documents that have been rigged to deliver malware. The documents are titled in ways that are attractive to the recipient.
Sometimes such attacks cause applications such as Microsoft Word to crash, which might raise suspicion among victims. Olson said they've refined the attacks, however.
The malware has been configured to actually write a clean Word document or PDF to the system and open it automatically.
"The document itself contains the actual content they expected to see when they opened the attachment," Olson said.
A study conducted by The Citizen Lab, a Canadian think tank that's part University of Toronto's Munk School of Global Affairs, found activist groups have fewer resources to defend themselves against cyberattacks.
Still, Scarlet Mimic's attacks are not particularly advanced: the software vulnerabilities targeted are often years old. The malware installed, a Windows backdoor called FakeM, has been around since at least 2013.
Palo Alto's report will likely create a stir with the attackers, who often pay attention to what security researchers write and scramble to change their methods.
"When we publish something, we know that we're going to burn this knowledge," Olson said. "We want the attackers who are responsible for this to have to spend time, money and resources setting up new infrastructure and developing their code because it makes their job harder."
Our Back to Business guide highlights the best products for you to boost your productivity at home, on the road, at the office, or in the classroom.
Visit our shop for the best deals on hot products
Watch our video news and reviews from around the world

 First impression on unpacking the Q702 test unit was the solid feel and clean, minimalist styling.


 For work use, Microsoft Word and Excel programs pre-installed on the device are adequate for preparing short documents. 


 The Fujitsu LifeBook UH574 allowed for great mobility without being obnoxiously heavy or clunky. Its twelve hours of battery life did not disappoint.


 The screen was particularly good. It is bright and visible from most angles, however heat is an issue, particularly around the Windows button on the front, and on the back where the battery housing is located.


 My first impression after unboxing the Q702 is that it is a nice looking unit. Styling is somewhat minimalist but very effective. The tablet part, once detached, has a nice weight, and no buttons or switches are located in awkward or intrusive positions.

Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of IDG Communications is prohibited. Copyright 2013 IDG Communications. 
 ABN 14 001 592 650. All rights reserved.
With over 25 years of brand awareness and credibility, Good Gear Guide (formerly PC World Australia), consistently delivers editorial excellence through award-winning content and trusted product reviews.