2016-01~02
http://www.ngnews.ca/Community/2016-01-24/article-4414048/Improving-literacy-through-hands-on-learning/1

Improving literacy through hands-on learning - Community - The News
Literacy changes lives, and it’s something that can be shared with others. Maybe it’s by sitting down with friends to talk about your favourite author, or passing along a special book to a friend or co-worker. As we celebrate Family Literacy Day on Wednesday, Jan. 27, and throughout the week at public libraries in Pictou County – it’s a good time to reflect on the role that literacy plays in our lives.
While the Oxford Dictionary defines literacy as ‘the ability to read and write’ they also mention literacy as competence or knowledge in a specified area. Regardless of how much people continue to learn, there is always the potential to learn more. Whether it is from each other, a book or leafing through archived items, the library always has a role to play when it comes to sharing our love of literacy.
Often times, programs – whether they are at the library or out in the community – provide opportunities for people to improve people’s literacy about various things. Local book clubs and knitting groups are just a few examples of free programs at the library that help others learn more. Sometimes it’s the conversations and questions that come out of the book club, or the mentoring that comes from being in a knitting group builds on literacy too.
If you can spare a few minutes of your time to help someone improve their literacy through reading, writing and sharing knowledge – it’s a gift that keeps on giving!  For those interested in finding out more information on Family Literacy Day activities in libraries throughout Pictou County this week, head to the upcoming events section of www.parl.ns.ca or stop into a library of your choice.
Movies at the library and in your own home too!
On Thursday, Jan. 28, at 6:15 p.m. in the River John Public Library, settle in on a winter evening to enjoy this month’s NFB Film ‘Uyghurs: Prisoners of the Absurd,’ recounting the incredible odyssey of 22 men from China’s persecuted Uyghur minority who were detained in Guantánamo as terrorists. All are welcome!
For those who want to cozy up by the TV, we’ve also just received a number of DVDs and Blu Rays that will be added to the collection in the coming weeks for people to borrow. Log in with your free library card to place a hold, or stop in to your closest library.
If you’re ‘out and about’ this week, and are craving some colourful inspiration – stop into the New Glasgow Public Library to enjoy some beautiful artwork on display thanks to the Pictou County Artist Guild. For artists interested in displaying their artwork on the walls of the New Glasgow location, please call (902) 752-8233.
For more information on upcoming library programs, special events and services, please drop by your local library branch, follow us on Twitter, find us on Facebook, or visit us online at www.parl.ns.ca.


 Organizations:
 
 
Oxford Dictionary, River John Public Library, New Glasgow Public Library


 
 Geographic location:
 
 
Pictou County, China, Guantánamo New Glasgow
LOWER BARNEY’S RIVER – Kenneth Lloyd “Kenny” Taylor, 68, Lower Barney’s River, passed away peacefully,…
Trenton – Roberta MacNeil. It is with great sadness that we announce the death of…
MUNROE, FLORENCE KATHLEEN STELLARTON, NS Florence Kathleen Munroe, 11 Poplar Crest, Stellarton, passed away in…

 Transcontinental Media G.P.1100 Rene-Levesque Blvd. West, Montreal, QC H3B 4X9(514) 392-9000
