2016-01~02
https://www.tytnetwork.com/2016/01/28/liberal-media-attacks-bernie-sanders/

“Liberal Media” Attacks Bernie Sanders - TYT Network
In The Young Turks on YouTube by Aaron WysockiJanuary 28, 2016Leave a Comment
The Washington Post editorial board wrote a scathing oped on Bernie Sanders and his policies. This so-called vanguard of the “liberal media” is trying to take down the most success liberal candidate in decades. Cenk Uygur host of The Young Turks breaks it down.
Do you think The Washington Post is liberal? Let us know in the comments below.
“SEN. BERNIE Sanders (I-Vt.) is leading in New Hampshire and within striking distance in Iowa, in large part because he is playing the role of uncorrupted anti-establishment crusader. But Mr. Sanders is not a brave truth-teller. He is a politician selling his own brand of fiction to a slice of the country that eagerly wants to buy it.
Mr. Sanders’s tale starts with the bad guys: Wall Street and corporate money. The existence of large banks and lax campaign finance laws explains why working Americans are not thriving, he says, and why the progressive agenda has not advanced. Here is a reality check: Wall Street has already undergone a round of reform, significantly reducing the risks big banks pose to the financial system. The evolution and structure of the world economy, not mere corporate deck-stacking, explained many of the big economic challenges the country still faces. And even with radical campaign finance reform, many Americans and their representatives would still oppose the Sanders agenda.
Mr. Sanders’s story continues with fantastical claims about how he would make the European social model work in the United States. He admits that he would have to raise taxes on the middle class in order to pay for his universal, Medicare-for-all health-care plan, and he promises massive savings on health-care costs that would translate into generous benefits for ordinary people, putting them well ahead, on net. But he does not adequately explain where those massive savings would come from. Getting rid of corporate advertising and overhead would only yield so much. Savings would also have to come from slashing payments to doctors and hospitals and denying benefits that people want.”