2016-01~02
http://www.haberajans.net/10th-amendment-definition

10th amendment definition Mp3 indir video ve müzik yükle
Learn about the most popular Amendments to The Constitution. (1, 2, 4, 5, and 6th Amendments)
The 10th Amendment to the US Constitution and the principle of federalism explained. Continuing the Constitution for Dummies Series with the Bill of Rights and Amendment 10. Explained simply so you can understand the Constitution of the United States.

Check out the rest of the Constitution for Dummies Series http://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=...

Follow me on Twitter @HipHughes www.twitter.com/hiphughes
"An informed citizenry is the only true repository of the public will." TJ
Subscribe to my fellow EDU Gurus!!

AMOR SCIENDI

http://www.youtube.com/AmorSciendi

ASAP SCIENCE

http://www.youtube.com/AsapSCIENCE

BOZEMAN BIOLOGY

http://www.youtube.com/bozemanbiology

KUMESHI CHAN

http://www.youtube.com/KemushiChan

BITE-SCIZED SCIENCE

http://www.youtube.com/Lexie527

MATH APPITICIAN

http://www.youtube.com/mathapptician

MYLES POWER

http://www.youtube.com/powerm1985

PROFS POP

http://www.youtube.com/profspop

SPANISH IS YOUR AMIGO

http://www.youtube.com/SpanishIsYourA...

Subscribe to these geniuses!

Smarter Every Day http://www.youtube.com/user/destinws2

History for Music Lovers http://www.youtube.com/user/historyte...

Crash Course w/ the Green Brothers http://www.youtube.com/crashcourse

Steve Spangler Science: http://www.youtube.com/SteveSpanglerS...

Minute Physics: http://www.youtube.com/minutephysics

PBSIdeaChannel: https://www.youtube.com/pbsideachannel

Numberphile: http://www.youtube.com/numberphile

Deep Sky Videos: http://www.youtube.com/deepskyvideos

Veritasium: http://www.youtube.com/1veritasium

ViHart: http://www.youtube.com/vihart

Tom Richey http://www.youtube.com/user/tomforamerica

CGP Grey: http://www.youtube.com/cgpgrey

VSauce: http://www.youtube.com/vsauce

TedEd: http://www.youtube.com/TEDEducation

Subscribe to PoliPoppers!

*Check the PoliPop channel: https://www.youtube.com/user/POLIPOP

Love history? Come "like" / follow HipHughes History on Facebook!
In which John Green teaches you about the United States Constitution. During and after the American Revolutionary War, the government of the new country operated under the Articles of Confederation. While these Articles got the young nation through its war with England, they weren't of much use when it came to running a country. So, the founding fathers decided try their hand at nation-building, and they created the Constitution of the United States, which you may remember as the one that says We The People at the top. John will tell you how the convention came together, some of the compromises that had to be made to pass this thing, and why it's very lucky that the framers installed a somewhat reasonable process for making changes to the thing. You'll learn about Shays' Rebellion, the Federalist Papers, the elite vs rabble dynamic of the houses of congress, and start to find out just what an anti-federalist is.

Follow us:
http://www.twitter.com/thecrashcourse
http://www.twitter.com/realjohngreen
http://www.twitter.com/raoulmeyer
http://www.twitter.com/crashcoursestan
http://www.twitter.com/saysdanica
http://www.twitter.com/thoughtbubbler
Support CrashCourse on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/crashcourse
http://pledge.tenthamendmentcenter.com

This year, seven states have passed sovereignty resolutions under the 10th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Two states passed laws nullifying some federal firearms regulations. Thirteen states now have Medical Marijuana laws in direct opposition to federal laws. And three states are considering constitutional amendments allowing residents to effectively opt-out of any future national health care plan.

What does this have to do with September 17th, Constitution Day? 

everything. 

The Constitution of the United States was a revolutionary document. "Before it, no government in history had seen its duties and restrictions so clearly and carefully defined"

When it was being considered for ratification, there was strong opposition from famous American figures that included George Mason and Patrick Henry. "One major reason for this was a fear of too much power

The founding generation spent their lives toiling under a tyranny - a government without limits. When the Constitution was written, it was done to limit the power of government. It was created under the principle of popular sovereignty - that 'We the People of the Several States' created the government, and all powers not delegated to it, were retained."

Depending on how you count them, the People delegated approximately 35 powers to the federal government and not included in those powers are national health care, the creation of free speech zones, federal gun regulations, the war on drugs, and more.

The Constitution is not exclusively for either the left or the right. It established rules for limiting the power of government so your liberty would have a better chance of success. The founders created a system of government where the most important and most difficult issues would be kept close to home, and that's just the opposite of how things are today. 

Over the years, wise men and women warned us that the Constitution would never enforce itself. Its high time that people start recognizing this as fact. No amount of calling or voting or litigating or hoping will get federal politicians to restrict their own power. 

That's why we at TenthAmendmentCenter.com created the 10-4 Pledge so people can find candidates for office who believe in the strict limitations on power that the Constitution stands for.

The 10-4 Pledge is a set of 10 affirmations and 10 promises for legislators and candidates. Included in the pledge is an affirmation that "All just political authority is derived from the People," and a promise that elected officials will always vote "in favor of the Constitution of the United States. Every issue. Every time. No exceptions. No excuses."

Already, several prominent candidates have affirmed these positions as early-signers of the pledge, including Randy Brogdon for Governor of Oklahoma, Adam Kokesh for US House in New Mexico, and Brandon Creighton from the Texas House of Representatives and author of HCR-50 - the Texas Sovereignty Resolution.

So whether youre on the left, or on the right, or even somewhere in the middle, the path to freedom, the path to your political goals lies not in Washington D.C. Instead, it lies in Madison, and Jefferson (City), and other state capitols around the country.

So this Constitution Day take a new pledge. Ignore and resist the federal overnment. Its as worthless as it is dangerous.
I commend the state of Oklahoma for having the guts to stand up for the rights of the sovereign states. 

STATE OF OKLAHOMA
2nd Session of the 51st Legislature (2008)
HOUSE JOINT RESOLUTION 1089

By: Key
AS INTRODUCED

A Joint Resolution claiming sovereignty under the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States over certain powers; serving notice to the federal government to cease and desist certain mandates; and directing distribution.

WHEREAS, the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States reads as follows:

"The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people."; and

WHEREAS, the Tenth Amendment defines the total scope of federal power as being that specifically granted by the Constitution of the United States and no more; and

WHEREAS, the scope of power defined by the Tenth Amendment means that the federal government was created by the states specifically to be an agent of the states; and

WHEREAS, today, in 2008, the states are demonstrably treated as agents of the federal government; and 

WHEREAS, many federal mandates are directly in violation of the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States; and

 
WHEREAS, the United States Supreme Court has ruled in New York v. United States, 112 S. Ct. 2408 (1992), that Congress may not simply commandeer the legislative and regulatory processes of the states; and 

WHEREAS, a number of proposals from previous administrations and some now pending from the present administration and from Congress may further violate the Constitution of the United States.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES AND THE SENATE OF THE 2ND SESSION OF THE 51ST OKLAHOMA LEGISLATURE:

THAT the State of Oklahoma hereby claims sovereignty under the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States over all powers not otherwise enumerated and granted to the federal government by the Constitution of the United States.

THAT this serves as Notice and Demand to the federal government, as our agent, to cease and desist, effective immediately, mandates that are beyond the scope of these constitutionally delegated powers.

THAT a copy of this resolution be distributed to the President of the United States, the President of the United States Senate, the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate of each state's legislature of the United States of America, and each member of the Oklahoma Congressional Delegation.
Romney and Obama (Osama) go head to head in this intense debate in a local bar over the meaning of the tenth amendment. - created at http://goanimate.com/
This video is to address the issues that most Americans seem to be clueless about, that is the constitution and the amendments that protect their rights and give We The People the POWER to defend those rights and ourselves from a tyrannical government. Hopefully this video will bring cause for you all to read the constitution and learn it and use it and apply it in your daily lives. Without doing so the constitution becomes a worthless piece of parchment that has no significant value. BUT with our continued reading of it and the will to enforce its meaning then the constitution of the united states can and will be the most POWERFULL thing EVER written. It can save us all IF we save it. We the People MUST rise up and protect the constitution at all cost or we lose our freedoms and rights and liberties and become SLAVES to the government.
Rand Paul gives a libertarian perspective on the meaning of the tenth amendment, and implications on policy surrounding marijuana
This video captures an historic moment in time, March 17, 2010, that was music to the ears of every American constitutional Patriot. Senator Jim Lembke presented Senate Concurrent Resolution 34, the Tenth Amendment Resolution, on the Missouri Senate Floor, and passed 26 6. Its companion HCR25 was introduced by Representative Jim Guest on 04-08-10. It passed in the House, 104-49

SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION NO. 34

WHEREAS, in the American system, sovereignty is defined as final authority, and the people, not government, are sovereign; and

WHEREAS, the people of the state of Missouri are not united with the people of the other forty-nine states that comprise the United States of America on a principle of unlimited submission to their federal government; and

WHEREAS, all power not delegated by the people to government is retained; and

WHEREAS, the people of the several states comprising the United States of America created the federal government to be their agent for certain enumerated purposes only; and

WHEREAS, the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States reads as follows: The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people; and

WHEREAS, the Tenth Amendment defines the total scope of federal power as being that which has been delegated by the people to the federal government in the Constitution of the United States, and also that which is necessary and proper to advancing those enumerated powers; with the rest being left to state governments or the people themselves; and

WHEREAS, powers, too numerous to list for the purposes of this resolution, have been exercised, past and present, by federal administrations, under the leadership of both Democrats and Republicans, which infringe on the sovereignty of the people of this state, and may further violate the Constitution of the United States; and

WHEREAS, when powers are assumed by the federal government which have not been delegated to it by the people, a nullification of the act is the rightful remedy; that without this remedy, the people of Missouri would be under the dominion, absolute and unlimited, of whoever might exercise this right of judgment for them:

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the members of the Missouri Senate, Ninety-fifth General Assembly, Second Regular Session, the House of Representatives concurring therein, hereby affirm the sovereignty of the people of Missouri under the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States over all powers not otherwise delegated to the federal government by the Constitution of the United States; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that this resolution shall serve as a notice and demand to the federal government to cease and desist any and all activities outside the scope of their constitutionally-delegated powers; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Secretary of the Missouri Senate be instructed to prepare a properly inscribed copy of this resolution for the President of the United States, the President of the United States Senate, the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, and each member of the Missouri congressional delegation.
"The real reason the Second Amendment was ratified, and why it says "State" instead of "Country" (the Framers knew the difference - see the 10th Amendment), was to preserve the slave patrol militias in the southern states, which was necessary to get Virginia's vote. Founders Patrick Henry, George Mason, and James Madison were totally clear on that . . . and we all should be too.

In the beginning, there were the militias. In the South, they were also called the "slave patrols," and they were regulated by the states. 

In Georgia, for example, a generation before the American Revolution, laws were passed in 1755 and 1757 that required all plantation owners or their male white employees to be members of the Georgia Militia, and for those armed militia members to make monthly inspections of the quarters of all slaves in the state."

Read more here:
http://www.truth-out.org/news/item/13890-the-second-amendment-was-ratified-to-preserve-slavery

Cenk Uygur (http://www.twitter.com/cenkuygur), host of The Young Turks, breaks it down. Tell us what you think in the comment section below. 

Get The Young Turks​ Mobile App Today!

Download the iOS version here: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/the-young-turks/id412793195?ls=1&mt=8

Download the Android version here: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.tyt
Did you know there are two primary definitions for the word nullify? Knowing the difference is essential for putting it into practice.

NEXT WEEK: The Winning Path

Join TAC, Support Liberty! http://tenthamendmentcenter.com/members
From July 29, 2011

PERRY: "You know, I said the other day that the 10th Amendment frees New York state to define marriage as they please. But the traditional definition suits Texas and this governor just fine."
I believe America's federal government today would be unrecognizable to James Madison, father of the Bill of Rights, and the other founders of our nation. I put this video together for a school project as an example of just how bloated the federal government is today compared to what was intended by the U.S. Constitution.

Bishop, Rob. “10th Amendment Solutions.” inFOCUS, 7(3), (Fall, 2013) pg. 10-12. Retrieved from http://go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.liberty.edu:2048/ps/i.do?id=GALE%7CA348314285&v=2.1&u=vic_liberty&it=r&p=AONE&sw=w&asid=a97754829dd445c2e556d04299bad107

Mosk, Stanley. “The Role of the Judge in the 1980’s: Rediscovering the 10th Amendment.” 20 Judges J., 16, (1981) pg. 16-19. Retrieved from http://heinonline.org

Lash, Kurt. “Original Meaning of an Omission: The Tenth Amendment, Popular Sovereignty, and Expressly Delegated Power.” 83 Notre Dame L. Rev., (2007-2008),pg. 1889 – 1956. Retrieved from http://heinonline.org
content used under the fair use act.
Illinois House Votes to Nullify Federal Marijuana Laws, 61-57
http://beforeitsnews.com/libertarian/2013/04/illinois-house-votes-to-nullify-federal-marijuana-laws-61-57-2499050.html
The term "federalism" is used to describe a system of government in which sovereignty is constitutionally divided between a central governing authority and constituent political units (such as states or provinces). Federalism is a system based upon democratic rules and institutions in which the power to govern is shared between national and provincial/state governments, creating what is often called a federation. 

full: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qlYHZqKm4w4

Federalism in the United States is the evolving relationship between state governments and the federal government of the United States. American government has evolved from a system of dual federalism to one of associative federalism. In "Federalist No. 46," James Madison asserted that the states and national government "are in fact but different agents and trustees of the people, constituted with different powers." Alexander Hamilton, writing in "Federalist No. 28," suggested that both levels of government would exercise authority to the citizens' benefit: "If their [the peoples'] rights are invaded by either, they can make use of the other as the instrument of redress."
Today, from the drug war to gun control, the federal government justifies almost everything it does through a twisted view of the power to regulate commerce "among the several states."
 
 Join the TAC and help us stand for the Constitution and Liberty! http://tenthamendmentcenter.com/members
Texas Governor Rick Perry has backed a House resolution in support of states rights under the 10th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. In the eyes of the Department of Homeland Security this makes him a dangerous right-wing extremist. 
HCR 50 affirms that Texas claims sovereignty under the Tenth Amendment over all powers not otherwise granted to the federal government. 
The bill also designates that all compulsory federal legislation that requires states to comply under threat of civil or criminal penalties, or that requires states to pass legislation or lose federal funding, be prohibited or repealed. 
I believe that our federal government has become oppressive in its size, its intrusion into the lives of our citizens, and its interference with the affairs of our state, Gov. Perry said in a press conference last Thursday. 
That is why I am here today to express my unwavering support for efforts all across our country to reaffirm the states rights affirmed by the Tenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. I believe that returning to the letter and spirit of the U.S. Constitution and its essential Tenth Amendment will free our state from undue regulations, and ultimately strengthen our Union. Perry added. 
Perry's words could land him on a federal watchlist however, if the Department of Homeland Security's latest intelligence assessment is an accurate indicator.
A footnote attached to the report by the Homeland Security Office of Intelligence and Analysis defines "rightwing extremism in the United States" as including not just racist or hate groups, but also groups that reject federal authority in favor of state or local authority, reports the Washington Times today.
"It may include groups and individuals that are dedicated to a single-issue, such as opposition to abortion or immigration," the report states.
The Times has picked up on the newly uncovered document which we covered in our article yesterday.
The report, entitled Rightwing Extremism: Current Economic and Political Climate Fueling Resurgence in Radicalization and Recruitment (PDF link) was leaked to the Internet a few days ago. It also equates gun owners with violent terrorists and states that radical extremists are stockpiling weapons in fear of an Obama administration gun ban.
The document characterizes concerns about the economy, unemployment, the loss of U.S. sovereignty and the move towards global government as rightwing extremist chatter on the Internet which itself is defined as a potential tool for terrorists to network, build bombs, and send encrypted messages to each other.
Concerned readers should perhaps contact Governor Rick Perry and ask him how he feels about being equated with dangerous terrorists by the federal government.
Imported from PRISON PLANET .TV - INFOWARS.NET
The main idea of the United States Constitution, which was ratified in 1788, was to limit the powers of the federal government. For the first time in history the powers of a national government were limited to a list of enumerated powers. Article I, section 8 lists these powers, for example, to coin money, to issue patents, to declare war, to support an army and navy.

A Bill of Rights was added at the insistence of those who feared federal power. The Bill of Rights was considered an iron-clad guarantee that the federal government would not expand its powers beyond those listed in article I, section 8. The Tenth Amendment in the Bill of Rights provides that any powers not specifically delegated to the United States are reserved to the states and to the people. 

Limiting the powers of the federal government to a list of specific powers is known as the Doctrine of Enumerated Powers. By limiting the powers of the federal and state governments, the founding fathers created the freest and most capitalistic country to ever exist in the world. Many Americans do not realize what a radical idea the Constitution was. For the first time in history a government was established which guaranteed property rights and which limited the powers of the government to specific, enumerated powers.

The economic results of creating the world's freest country would transform the world. Inventions in the fields of agriculture, manufacturing, transportation, communication and medicine would increase the wealth and productivity of the world more than all the inventions in prior history. For 150 years, from 1788 to 1937, the Supreme Court limited the powers of the federal government to those enumerated in the Constitution. The Tenth Amendment was enforced as written and as originally intended, reserving all powers not specifically granted to the federal government to the states and to the people.
QUESTION: I'm one of your constituents Mr. Moran. My question is regarding the "Fix Background Checks Act". I know as my Congressman you would never support any legislation that's not authorized by the Constitution so my question is: "How do you reconcile requiring background checks on all private sales when the 10th amendment forbids the Federal Government to regulate Intrastate Commerce."

Follow up: "You swore an oath to uphold the Constitution so I'm assuming you've read it."

Answered by: Congressman Jim Moran, Jonathan Lowy (Brady Center)

Google Search: "This clause says Congress can regulate interstate and foreign commerce. The Congress today, though, regulates many forms of commerce that are only intrastate, meaning only within state lines. Why? The Supreme Court has allowed it, and so have the people."

Source: http://www.revolutionary-war-and-beyond.com/10th-amendment.html#sthash.hsN2w8PU.ouPyHQB7.dpbs
The Roanoke Tea Party presents the case that allowing the Federal Government to abuse the 10th Amendment without the states resisting through the doctrine of nullification is crazy. Find out more about what Jefferson called the "rightful remedy" for federal over reach.