2016-01~02
http://www.laprensasa.com/309_america-in-english/3628487_suspects-in-bangkok-terror-attack-plead-innocent.html

Suspects in Bangkok terror attack plead innocent :: La Prensa :: America in English
Erawan Shrine bombing suspect identified by Thai police as Adem Karadag (C) is escorted by officers and prison personnel as they leave for trial at the Military Court in Bangkok, Thailand, 16 February 2016. EFE
Erawan Shrine bombing suspect identified by Thai police as Adem Karadag (C) is escorted by officers and prison personnel as they leave for trial at the Military Court in Bangkok, Thailand, 16 February 2016. EFE
Erawan Shrine bombing suspect identified by Thai police as Yusufu Mieraili (C) is escorted by officers and prison personnel as they leave for trial at the Military Court in Bangkok, Thailand, 16 February 2016. EFE
Bangkok, 16 feb (EFE).- Two suspects accused of being involved in a bomb attack that left 20 dead last August in central Bangkok pleaded innocent during their trial at Thailand's military court Tuesday, with one claiming that earlier confessions were extracted through torture.
Adem Karadag, also known as Bilal Mohammad, and Yusufu Mieraili - who are members of the Uighur Muslim minority group from China's Xinjiang province - face a number of charges, including conspiracy, premeditated murder and possession of explosives over the Aug. 17 attack.
"I'm not guilty and I have suffered six months in prison," Mieraili told the court through a translator, according to local news site Khaosod.
Police say Karadag was captured on security camera footage leaving a package containing the bomb at the Erawan shrine in central Bangkok where the explosion took place, while Mierali is accused of detonating the bomb.
During the investigation, the two suspects confessed to their roles in the attack, but Karadag said today his confession was obtained under torture.
"They forced me to sign documents that I couldn't understand. When I tried not to do it they tortured me," Karadag said, according to a statement given to the press by his lawyer, Chuchart Kanpai.
In the statement, Karadag said that during the interrogation, authorities punched him in the stomach, poured cold water into his nose and threatened to kill him on a number of occasions.
Speculation is rife about possible motives for the attack. While the government has said it suspects a people-smuggling gang angered by a crackdown on its activities carried out the attack, others have suggested it may have been committed as revenge for the deportation of around 100 Uighurs back to China last July.
Bangkok, Feb 16 (EFE).- Two people, accused in a bomb attack last August in Bangkok that left 20 people dead and around a hundred others wounded, appeared before Thailand's military court Tuesday to formally plead to the charges against them.
The suspects, Mohamad Bilal and Yusufu Mieraili, face 10 charges, including conspiracy, premeditated murder and possession of explosives.
According to the police, both the accused confessed to their role in the attack on Aug. 17; however, on Monday their lawyer told the media that the confessions were obtained under torture.
The two accused - identified by the authorities as Uighurs, the Muslim minority group from China's Xinjiang province - are the only ones arrested for the attack, which the police attributed to a reprisal by organized crime groups in response to a supposed police crackdown on human trafficking.
The police believe Bilal to be the man who appears on security cameras, wearing a yellow t-shirt and planting the backpack containing the bomb on the temple grounds just before the blast, whereas Mieraili would have been the one to detonate the bomb.
The investigations, rife with irregularities and contradictory statements by the police and the military junta, sparked speculations into the motives behind the attack, for which no group has yet claimed responsibility.
One of the theories linked the attack to the deportation of about 100 Uighurs, who were looking to travel to Turkey to seek asylum, especially as the temple is popular among Chinese tourists. EFE