2016-01~02
http://www.4-traders.com/news/Two-accused-of-Bangkok-bombing-appear-in-court-deny-involvement--21858181/

Two accused of Bangkok bombing appear in court, deny involvement
Two men accused of involvement in a deadly bomb attack in Bangkok in August appeared at a military court in the city on Tuesday, and denied playing a part in the crime.
Bilal Mohammed, also known as Adem Karadak, 31, a Uyghur from Xinjiang autonomous region in China, was arrested 12 days after the Aug. 17 blast at the Erawan shrine in an apartment in northern Bangkok, where security officials seized bomb-making materials.
Investigators later identified him as a man caught on CCTV in the area, wearing a yellow shirt, who was believed to have placed the explosives at the shrine, killing 20 people and injuring more than 100.
Mohammed was charged with 10 offences, including premeditated killing. He denied all the allegations, and claimed he had entered Thailand on Aug. 21 last year, not in May as officials claimed.
In court, Mohammed also refused to provide his actual address in Xinjiang, claiming that he had a "fear of the Chinese government."
Meanwhile, another Chinese Uyghur, Yusufu Mieraili, 27, also appeared in court and denied all allegations against him.
Mieraili was seized on Sept. 1 in Sakaeo Province on the Thailand-Cambodia border.
Addressing the court, and asking it to speed up proceedings, he said "you have jailed an innocent Muslim man for six months," referring to his own time in detention.
Speaking through translators, he expressed concerns over the court's appointment of a military lawyer for him, and said he wished to hire a civilian lawyer instead.
Mohammed's lawyer, Choochart Kanpai, meanwhile, told reporters that his client had not confessed to any crime, but had been tortured and forced to admit to being the man seen on CCTV in a yellow shirt.
"He told me some unknown men tortured him during the investigation, by, for example, putting cold water into his nose, letting a dog bark near him, and threatening to deport him to China," Choochart said.
The court ordered the defendants to appear again between April 20-22 for checking lists of evidence and witnesses before their trial begins.
The bomb attack at the Erawan shrine in central Bangkok was followed by a second explosion at a pier in the city the following day, which caused no injuries.
Thai police have said that the attack was in retaliation for the government's crackdown on human trafficking syndicates, rather than a revenge attack for its deportation of 109 ethnic Uyghurs to China last July, as some have suggested.
Chinese authorities frequently blame Uyghur separatists for outbreaks of ethnic violence in Xinjiang, where many Uyghurs complain of discrimination, restrictions on religious freedom and cultural suppression.