2016-01~02
http://www.salon.com/2016/02/20/minorities_and_women_largely_shut_out_of_encryption_debate_partner/

Minorities and women largely shut out of encryption debate - Salon.com

 Topics: 
 the daily dot, 
 encryption, 
 Tim Cook, 
 Apple, 
 Minorities, 
 women, Working Ahead News, Social News, Technology News, Media News, Business News, Life News, News, Politics News
Surveillance in the 21st century deeply impacts minority communities in the United States, but they have almost no voice in the debate over spying and encryption compared to wealthy white males.
The latter group dominates the Washington, D.C., hearings, academic panels, and board room meetings where the most heavy-duty decision making is taking place, a Daily Dot review found.
Cook has become the leading voice in the fight for strong encryption largely due to his position as the chief executive of the world’s most valuable company.
More from The Daily Dot: Seth Meyers is getting late-night right – and no one is watching
Minorities, on the other hand, have long been at the center of American surveillance, including when J. Edgar Hoover’s FBI put members of the 1960s’ Civil Rights Movement under their watchful eye. Today, communities of Muslim and black Americans sit right at the center of American surveillance.
Surveillance in the 21st century deeply impacts minority communities in the United States, but they have almost no voice in the debate over spying andencryption compared to wealthy white males.
More from The Daily Dot: For ‘Broad City,’ Content is Kween 
The latter group dominates the Washington, D.C., hearings, academic panels, and board room meetings where the most heavy-duty decision making is taking place, a Daily Dot review found.
Cook has become the leading voice in the fight for strong encryption largely due to his position as the chief executive of the world’s most valuable company.
Minorities, on the other hand, have long been at the center of American surveillance, including when J. Edgar Hoover’s FBI put members of the 1960s’ Civil Rights Movement under their watchful eye. Today, communities of Muslim and black Americans sit right at the center of American surveillance.
At a recent panel on the encryption debate in Austin, Texas, ACLU’s Principal Technologist Christopher Soghoian pointed out the disparity.
“This is a room filled with people who went to very good universities, most of whom probably make more than $100,000 per year, and many of whom already have a device in their pockets that encrypts their data by default,” he said. “The reason we’re having this debate is it looks like the poor and minorities and those who are most surveilled in our society are about to get encryption technology. And people are really upset.”
More from The Daily Dot: Can Kanye West Save Tidal?
Soghoian, who called the debate “a problem of equality and racial justice,” noted that the entire gathering included no African-Americans and no Muslims, “the people who are the most surveilled in our society.”
While this is by no means an exhaustive review of all recent important discussions of these issues, we believe the selection is representative the overall demographics of debate. It’s also clear that assigning ethnicities can be an inexact task at best, but we believe the count strongly reflects the color of the debate.
The situation for minorities and surveillance is similar outside the United States. In China, which already boasts the most heavily surveilled cyberspace on earth, the Muslim Uighur minority is subject to especially focused monitoring and harsh punishments.
Below is the collection of prominent events, hearings, letters, and discussions on the American encryption debate that informed our conclusions above:
Named for the 15th-century Dutch artist known for vivid depictions of life in Hell, Detective Hieronymus “Harry” Bosch goes head to head with LA’s worst criminals. Actor Titus Welliver was handpicked by author and executive producer Michael Connelly to take Bosch from the pages to the screen.
Michael Connelly personally selected every LA location featured in the Bosch opening sequence. After 20 years with this character, Connelly wanted to be sure the show reflected the authenticity that longtime fans have appreciated over the years.
Actor Titus Welliver is the real deal. Having once considered becoming an NYC police officer, he was immediately drawn to this role. Much like Connelly’s own commitment to the character, Welliver is very passionate about remaining true to the source material.
In the series, Harry Bosch lent his expertise as a cop to Hollywood for the blockbuster movie The Black Echo, based on his own life story. The poster for the film hangs proudly in his living room, high above the Hollywood Hills.
Inspired by Michael Connelly’s books City of Bones, Echo Park, and The Concrete Blonde, the first season of Bosch introduced Amazon audiences to complex character Harry Bosch. Season 2, which features storylines from Trunk Music, The Drop and The Last Coyote premieres March 11th on Amazon Prime Video.
As an LA crime reporter early in his career, Michael Connelly worked side by side with the LAPD. With three LA homicide detectives on staff as consultants, Bosch lives up to its promise of authenticity.
Harry Bosch lives in the hills just above the Cahuenga Pass, the perfect spot to look out over the city he protects. Michael Connelly found this very spot in 1989, where he often returns to contemplate the city and find inspiration. Connelly also had his own home above Hollywood many years ago – in the High Tower apartments, where noir character Philip Marlowe lived in Robert Altman’s The Long Goodbye.
To ensure they would be able to realistically capture a cop’s perspective, the Bosch cast participated in special training with the LAPD, where they were faced with hard choices in real-life scenarios.
Michael Connelly’s inspiration for the gritty realness of Harry Bosch was often found during real testimonies while sitting in court as a reporter for the LA Times, including this defining exchange from Season 1, “How many people have you killed?” “I don’t know.”
Michael Connelly, an avid fan himself, wrote in a broadcast of an LA Dodgers game for the opening scenes of Season 1.
Stream Season 2 of the Amazon Original Series Bosch with Prime.
Salon is proud to feature content from The Daily Dot, a paper of record for the World Wide Web reporting on the important and relevant topics for online communities.
On the Charts: Rihanna's 'Anti' Works Its Way Back to Number One
Hulk Hogan Awarded Additional $25 Million in Gawker Sex Tape Trial
Hillary Clinton Lays Out Her Own Middle East Approach -- And It's Not Obama's
Hillary Clinton: Male Candidates Don't Get Grief Over Smiling, Shouting
Donald Trump Shrugs Off Violence At His Rallies: 'I Have No Control Over The People'
4 Expert-Backed Truths About How Much Pee Is Too Much
Raymond Moore, Tournament Director Of BNP Paribas Open, Resigns Over Sexist Comments
Hillary Clinton: Male Candidates Don't Get Grief Over Smiling, Shouting
Why You Shouldn't Date Men Who Attempt to "Fix You"
This is how El Niño is affecting California's devastating drought.
These cameras gave young cancer patients an adventure of a lifetime.
How the world's deepest lake and chilly weather created a can't-miss musical performance.
24 stunning photos of cities around the world turning their lights off to make a point.
How a video of a metal puppet hand eventually turned into an idea for accessibility.