2016-01~02
http://www.efe.com/efe/english/world/suspects-in-bangkok-terror-attack-plead-innocent/50000262-2841277

Suspects in Bangkok terror attack plead innocent | World | English edition | Agencia EFE
Erawan Shrine bombing suspect identified by Thai police as Adem Karadag (C) is escorted by officers and prison personnel as they leave for trial at the Military Court in Bangkok, Thailand, 16 February 2016. EFE
Erawan Shrine bombing suspect identified by Thai police as Yusufu Mieraili (C) is escorted by officers and prison personnel as they leave for trial at the Military Court in Bangkok, Thailand, 16 February 2016. EFE
Two suspects accused of being involved in a bomb attack that left 20 dead last August in central Bangkok pleaded innocent during their trial at Thailand's military court Tuesday, with one claiming that earlier confessions were extracted through torture.
Adem Karadag, also known as Bilal Mohammad, and Yusufu Mieraili - who are members of the Uighur Muslim minority group from China's Xinjiang province - face a number of charges, including conspiracy, premeditated murder and possession of explosives over the Aug. 17 attack.
"I'm not guilty and I have suffered six months in prison," Mieraili told the court through a translator, according to local news site Khaosod.
Police say Karadag was captured on security camera footage leaving a package containing the bomb at the Erawan shrine in central Bangkok where the explosion took place, while Mierali is accused of detonating the bomb.
During the investigation, the two suspects confessed to their roles in the attack, but Karadag said today his confession was obtained under torture.
"They forced me to sign documents that I couldn't understand. When I tried not to do it they tortured me," Karadag said, according to a statement given to the press by his lawyer, Chuchart Kanpai.
In the statement, Karadag said that during the interrogation, authorities punched him in the stomach, poured cold water into his nose and threatened to kill him on a number of occasions.
Speculation is rife about possible motives for the attack. While the government has said it suspects a people-smuggling gang angered by a crackdown on its activities carried out the attack, others have suggested it may have been committed as revenge for the deportation of around 100 Uighurs back to China last July.
We use own and third party cookies to improve our services and show related advertising to your preferences by analyzing your browsing habits. If you continue to browse, consider accepting its use. You can change the settings or get more information here. LINK