2016-01~02
http://www.hamiltonnews.com/news-story/6325170-silk-road-market-caters-to-lovers-of-acceleration-handling-and-plumage/

Silk Road market caters to lovers of acceleration, handling and plumage
In one of the closest votes on the Mountain in recent history former CHCH...
Jesy Nelson has sprained her wrist whilst on tour with her fellow Little...
Ontario's food woes stretch beyond one section of the condiment aisle.
Question:
My Agreement of Purchase and Sale for a condominium unit is...

 KASHGAR, China — In many parts of the world, pigeons are an urban pest or, at best, a tasty meal. But here in this storied, ancient outpost near China's border with Kyrgyzstan, they are much more: a hobby, an investment and, for some, an addiction.


 On Sundays, an outdoor market in the centre of the city fills with ethnic Uighur men and boys engaged in a frenzied, mercantile display of traditional male bonding. The objects of their attention — many outrageously adorned in multihued and frilly plumage — appeared largely unfazed by the prodding appraisals of crown, beak, wing and tail.


 "You get kind of addicted," said Azizjam Mamat, 27, a cellphone company manager who started coming to the market when he was 8 and now owns 300 birds. "One pigeon gives the love of 10 women."


 The passion for pigeons sustained the Uighurs, a largely Muslim Turkic-speaking minority, long before the People's Republic of China took control of their traditional homeland more than 60 years ago and named it the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region.


 Despite a harrowing cycle of government repression and bloodshed, the pastime has continued to thrive. It is also popular, to some extent, among the ethnic Han Chinese migrants who have flowed into Xinjiang by the millions, lured by generous state subsidies and economic opportunities that stem from Beijing's efforts to resurrect Kashgar as a hub on a new Silk Road trading route to Pakistan and beyond.


 But the scene at the Kashgar pigeon market, with its predominantly Uighur patronage, highlights the entrenched divisions between the city's Uighur majority and the Han newcomers, most of whom live in separate, recently developed neighbourhoods across town.


 Not a word of Mandarin was heard amid the din of negotiations, interrupted by cooing from metal cages and the occasional flapping of wings. On the roof of one stall, a man clutching a butterfly net in one hand crept gingerly on all fours toward a perched escapee. Overheard, a flock of pigeons wheeled across the hazy sky in balletic synchronicity.


 In Xinjiang, a region larger than France, Germany and Spain combined, pigeon predilections vary greatly. Northerners favour the racing varieties, while showy breeds are popular here in the south. The market, one of the biggest in China, offers the full range, including grey racing homers that closely resemble the denizens of Manhattan sidewalks; white Jacobins with impossibly chic feathery ruffs; brown peacocklike fantails; and black reversewing pouters, their feet concealed by flowing plumage.


 "Northern people don't care about colour, just how many flips a pigeon can do," Amrula Abdula, 30, a blanket salesman, said dismissively. "In the south, we require both."


 Surrounded by green cages containing dozens of fancy pigeons, Miradijan Matalip, 35, a postal worker, had no problem parting with members of his menagerie — for the right price.


 "This is a hobby that can make money," he said, holding a black-headed specimen worth $60 firmly behind the wings as he inspected the inside of its beak. Matalip has kept pigeons since he was 6 and owns more than 600, including four he said were worth over $15,000 a pair. "I keep those at home," he said.


 The popularity of certain breeds can be fleeting. Pidayi Odikim, 66, a retired teacher, has seen countless pigeon fads come and go in his five decades of keeping the birds. Still, many Uighurs see the costly and laborious hobby as a rite of passage, one vital for teaching responsibility. "It keeps boys off the streets and brings them to the roof," he said.


 Devotees claim Uighurs have been keeping pigeons for more than a thousand years, though some say the special bond between man and bird has biblical origins, with Noah and his faithful dove. "The pigeon has been a valuable pet ever since," said Muradil Sidik, 22, a construction worker and collector who spends up to $50 each week buying birds.


 Market forces have played an increasingly important role among China's pigeon enthusiasts, who are said to number at least 300,000, according to state news reports. In 2013, a Han Chinese businessman paid a record $400,000 for a Belgian racing pigeon, a savvy investment considering that prestigious races offer prizes worth millions of dollars.


 Such extravagantly priced specimens were absent from the Kashgar market, but that does not mean Uighurs are reluctant to pay handsomely. Yusanjan Abdur Rahim, 15, claims he once sold a pair of pedigree chicks for $22,000. "Pigeons are like cars if they're rare enough," he said.


 If the scene felt far removed from the rest of China, closer inspection revealed a flurry of modern influences. Counterfeit bags of "Purina" pigeon food, mysteriously labelled "Biot Eounader" in the Latin alphabet, were for sale alongside fake versions of the numbered leg rings used globally to identify a bird's age and the organizations with which it is registered.


 Azizjam Azizdawut, 43, an employee of the state-run electric company, said he has kept pigeons for decades, including in his university dorm room. A member of a local pigeon association, he remembers when the hobby became a sport in the 1990s. Back then, racing distances in Xinjiang stretched up to 60 miles. These days, thanks to decades of strategic breeding and rigorous training, the contests span more than 300 miles over vast deserts and jagged mountains.


 In 2013, several of Azizdawut's pigeons won racing prizes, a point of pride tinged with resignation. "Winning is an honour, but it was too much work," he said with a sigh.

Howe Video provides quality, comprehensive wedding video services to its clients in Burlington and...
Metro Contract Management Inc. is a full service asbestos abatement and mould removal company based...
Canadian Tire of Hamilton has you covered for all your home safety needs. They’ve been protecting...
Way Back When in Hamilton offers a vast array of custom wedding gowns and historical wedding attire...
Question: 


What happens to your inheritance if you divorce? 


Answer: 


The Court of...
Store It Right in Grimsby, Ontario, knows that your storage unit can quickly become cluttered and...
The Truck Training Academy of Stoney Creek is proud to be part of an industry that is responsible...
The team at Bill Crown Plumbing & Heating in Grimsby, Ontario, wants to offer you some tips on the...
If you lose your job you’re likely to be upset and in shock, but Stoney Creek law firm Startek,...
Sandblasted and routed signs are stylish and popular for people who are looking to designate or...
The very worst of winter's wrath can be difficult for any business to deal with, so ensure your...
With an increasing number of directors and officers held personally accountable for the conduct and...
At Zebra Signs in Grimsby, Ontario, they are experienced in creating customized signs of all kinds....
Asbestos is present in more materials than most people realize. Today’s do-it-yourselfers should be...
Question:


As an employer, can I protect my business by having my employees sign non-competition...
Pho Binh Minh Vietnamese Cuisine in Hamilton, Ontario, offers affordable family-style dining in...
When it comes to looking after your kids, the staff at Le Ballon Rouge in Hamilton aren’t just...
While tattoos are popular and safe when done by an experienced tattoo artist, Good Point Tattoos in...
Above & Beyond Health Care is a Hamilton-based agency that specializes in the needs of seniors....
Question:

I sustained serious injuries when I Iost control of my snowmobile on a public trail. Do...