2016-01~02
http://www.india.com/news/india/south-china-sea-conflict-india-installs-satellite-station-in-vietnam-to-monitor-beijing-855678/

South China Sea conflict: India installs satellite station in Vietnam to monitor Beijing | Latest News & Gossip on Popular Trends at India.com
New Delhi, Jan 12: In what appears to be a tactical message to China, economic rival India has installed satellite station in Vietnam, which will be linked to neighbouring Indonesia. The space facility, amounting to $23 million is stated to be key strategic asset of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), which could keep a track on various space facilities launched by India. However, political commentators opine that the satellite will allow New Delhi to keep an eye on the aggression of China in the disputed South China Sea.
According to Prof. Gu Xiaosong, an expert of South-East Asian Studies at Guangxi University, the satellite will be used as a tool by India to further its geopolitical interests. “India has no territorial disputes with China in the South China Sea. It wants to stir up trouble in the region to serve its own ends, which is to counterbalance China’s influence,” he added. (ALSO READ: Geostrategic competition: India, Japan and USA joint naval exercise irks China)
Apart from India, United States of America and Japan have also lately pitched up activities in the region. There is a consensual threat among many nations that Beijing is rapidly showing aggression in the South China Sea region, and could even undermine the sovereignty of smaller nations lying in the fray. Most recently, Vietnam raised concerns on global platform against China, who has constructed an artificial island near Northern Vietnam. (ALSO READ: China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC): Will Islamabad turn into a colony of Beijing?)
The conflict in South China Sea is periodically raked up, as China increases its activity in the shared waterbody without taking consent of neighbouring nations – Vietnam, Philippines, Brunei, Taiwan and Malaysia.
The installation of satellite by India is also seen as a tit-for-tat reaction to the activities undertaken by China in SAARC nations including Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. The Xinjiang-PoK economic corridor, joint military drill with Dhaka and naval base exercise with Colombo in Palk Strait are few examples of increasing amount of interest shown by China along India’s territorial border.
Supreme Court stay on Jallikattu is partial victory for bulls:…
Copyright © 2016. India WebPortal Private Limited. All Rights Reserve