2016-01~02
http://crooksandliars.com/2016/01/cenk-uygur-rips-fox-news-hiring-black

Why Does Fox News Hire Black Commentators To Trash Black People? | Crooks and Liars
Cenk Uygur went after Fox 'News' commentator Crystal Wright for bashing African-American support for Democrats over Republicans who despise them.
"Fox News can't get white people to call African-Americans dumber and poorer and more criminalized," Uygur said, after playing a recent clip. "So what do they do? Oldest trick in the book. 'Let's get a black person to say it!'"
In the video, Crystal Wright says, "It's not just me." Cenk answers, "You're right about that. It's all the black Republicans on Fox News, so there's about 7 of you or so who make a living doing this."
"Did she present any evidence that African-Americans are - quote - dumber. Other than herself, she presented absolutely no evidence," he finished.
As for so-called "black on black crime," Uygur really took that one apart, with some help from Tommy Christopher on the statistics.
Not that it matters, since Wright’s generalizations are inherently racist, but they’re not even based on actual facts. First of all, President Obama does talk about murders in places like Chicago, like when he said “it happens on the streets of Chicago every day” just last week to everyone in America. So do #BlackLivesMatter and other black activists, contrary to popular lies.
Second of all, 83% of all white homicide victims are killed by other white people, and no one says “white people are killing each other,” or “what’s up with white-on-white crime?” because white violence is not seen as inherent.
Then, there’s Wright’s assertion that all that mutual black murder is being committed with “illegal guns,” which is flat-out wrong any way you look at it. According to the most recent Bureau of Justice Statistics data, only 40% of criminals in state prisons obtained their guns from an illegal source, and as President Obama pointed out, many crime guns are purchased legally somewhere else, then resold to criminals in Chicago.
As for the partisan angle, murders declined from 24,000 a year to just under 16,000 during Bill Clinton’s presidency, went up by about a thousand under George W. Bush, and then down to about 14,000 a year under Obama.

As Cenk points out, the "inherency" argument is one Fox News only uses for black people, never white people, using the logic that violence is only inherent in black people.
He then turned to Crystal Wright herself, whose biggest claim to fame is that she was paid some money to build a website in 2012 as an outreach vehicle to African-American Republicans, until the RNC pulled the plug on it, pre-launch.
According to a source familiar with the process, Wright met with RNC officials on June 12. Some in the RNC were critical of the project because it did not have a call to action or give Republicans activities to attach to the rollout of the site. Vallante scrambled to save the project, proposing a set of ideas which included town halls, reaching out to black GOP clergy members, and introducing more black surrogates into the mix.
But by July, two sources said it was too late.
On Aug. 1, 2012, Wright contacted the RNC regarding what to tell West about the site as it became clear the site had fallen out of favor with Spicer and the RNC.
“Here’s what I suggest,” Vallante said in an email to Wright. “The web site is held up because other than the website that you built for the Co-Chairman, there are no other programs or plans to reach black voters at the RNC, and people here are concerned that the website is ‘not enough.’ And if [he] asks who he should call – the answer should be the Chairman’s office. I think being honest is the right way to go, not dance around.”
Ouch. And now Crystal Wright spends her days and earns her paycheck trashing African-American people who, in her words, "vote against their interests" by choosing to support candidates who actually care about Black people instead of just talking about it.
Here's a video of her in 2014 singing the same tune on CNN's Reliable Sources. I wonder if her contract has a minimum number of mentions of the term "black-on-black" crime.
https://youtu.be/yH97lImrr0QFrom below:" if the idiots had half a brain, collectively, they settle for Merrick Garland...."
Bernie may or may not have chosen to embrace negative campaigning, but Shillary was born on the dark side. She has to fight very hard not to let her neo-con roots show.
Now that is funny. He probably didn't use it to avoid legal action from the NFL.
Hey, it's Drumpf. As long as he didn't call her a squaw c*nt, then it's a compliment. I don't think Drumpf was counting on the native american vote to start with.
IOKIYADCFA- It's Okay If You're a Dumb Cupcake From Alaska.