2016-01~02
http://www.just-style.com/analysis/esquel-backs-sustainable-chinese-sea-island-cotton-supply_id127186.aspx

Esquel backs sustainable Chinese Sea Island cotton supply | Apparel Industry Analysis | just-style
Esquel's Chinese cotton yarn feeds its fabric mill in Gaoming, Guangdong province
Hong Kong-based Esquel Group, the major vertically integrated cotton to shirt supplier, is making progress in a research programme to develop a sustainable Chinese supply of Sea Island cotton – also known as extra-long staple (ELS) cotton – in Xinjiang.
This autonomous territory in north-west China is a key cotton production centre. And a recent scientific conference in Urumqi, the capital city of Xinjiang, where Esquel has a 5,500-acre cotton field, discussed the latest key findings and challenges.
It was organised by Esquel and attended by Chinese scientists and government officials, including Ma Shuping, deputy director at China's ministry of agriculture seed management section, and Jiang Danping, deputy director for rural technologies at China's ministry of science and technology.
A research team, composed of scientists and researchers from Chinese academic institutions including the Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences (SIBS) and Nanjing Agricultural University (NAU), took part in the meeting last month.
Researchers reviewed the recent development of the global extra-long staple cotton segment and the use of gene technology to refine and develop these cotton strains. They also discussed the future of ELS cotton grown in Xinjiang, and how to use technologies to boost production to prevent future shortages in supply, as demand continues to grow.
The meeting followed the publication of findings from the world's first ELS cotton genome sequencing project, published online by international scientific journal Nature in September, including a genome map of the Xinhai21 ELS cotton (Sea Island cotton), as well as 77,526 identified and annotated functional genes.
These findings provided insights into the genome evolution of ELS cotton, making it easier for scientists to find the appropriate ELS cotton genome for subsequent development and, possibly, cultivation, according to Esquel, which invested CNY15m (US$2.3m) into the research programme. Researchers at the NAU, SIBS and the Chinese National Human Genome Centre, in Shanghai, took part.
"As one of the largest buyers of the Xinjiang ELS cotton, Esquel cares about the development of ELS cotton," says Zhang Yugao, director of research and development at Esquel Group.
With manufacturing facilities in China, Malaysia, Mauritius, Sri Lanka and Vietnam, the company makes over 100m pieces of garments annually for leading brands including Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger and Nike.?
"While we will continue to work with our partners on the research programme, we also welcome more research institutes to join the field to work together for developing high quality, high productive ELS cotton."
Xinjiang is the only area that has proved to be well-suited to growing ELS cotton in China, after decades of testing and experiments since the 1950s, when Chinese researchers introduced seeds from neighbouring regions in central Asia.
Known for its high strength and silky long fibres, ELS cotton is considered to be the top quality cotton and is an important material for the high-end and luxury sector in the global textile industry, in which quality shirt-maker Esquel is a key high-end player.
"Yarns spun from ELS cotton are of high thread counts with high strength, which is ideal for wrinkle-free shirts. The fabric made of ELS cotton yarns is also more durable," Zhang says. 
However, ELS cotton is notorious for its scarce production due to highly demanding environmental conditions for growing healthy plants. For example, ideal growing conditions include annual average daytime temperatures of between 26C and 28C (which the Xinjiang region experiences in its summer), with annual sunlight of around 3,000 hours, according to the UK-based West Indian Sea Island Cotton Association.
At the meeting, Esquel experts stressed that worldwide, approximately 416,000 tonnes is produced each per year, which accounts for less than 1.8% of the global cotton output. ELS cotton is currently mostly grown in key global cotton production centres in the US and Egypt.
Esquel uses around 15,000 tonnes of ELS cotton each year, 80% of which comes from its own cotton field in Xinjiang, the annual production of which is about 120,000 tonnes. The remaining 20% is imported from the US and Egypt, according to a company note.
Compared with mainland China's economically developed east coast cities, Xinjiang offers lower labour costs to cotton producers, with average wages in 2014 a little more than CNY4,000 (US$607) per month compared with CNY5,451 (US$828) in Shanghai.
But the region's endemic tension between its Uygur ethnic group, a Turkic language community, and local ethnic Han Chinese has scared away many investors – especially as political and social unrest can occasionally erupt, sometimes violently.
Esquel, however, is an exception. The company first went to Xinjiang in 1995, building three spinning mills in Urumqi, Turpan and Changji, supplying cotton yarns primarily to its fabric mill in Gaoming, Guangdong province, which produces fabrics for Esquel's garment factories in China.
In future, these Chinese-grown cotton yarn supplies may also be sent to Esquel plants in Vietnam and Malaysia, supporting China's 'one belt one road' strategy, whose goal is to build business and transport links between western China to central Asia, Europe and Southeast Asia, as Esquel CEO John Cheh noted at a conference last year.
Xinjiang is a key location on the new silk road into Central Asia. But logistics is only part of the reason why Esquel has put Xinjiang at a strategic position in its business. "Compared with ELS cotton from other areas, Xinjiang ELS cotton has longer, softer fibre and better colour grade," Zhang says.
An interactive databank with intelligence on the major apparel sourcing countries
Outlook 2016 – What else is on the apparel industry radar?
Get the latest comment, analysis and breaking news first. Sign up for the just-style newsletter.
Get the daily news as it happens, and our weekly best-of roundup.
©2016 All content copyright just-style.com
Published by Aroq Ltd. Address & registered office: Aroq House, 17A Harris Business Park, Bromsgrove, Worcs, B60 4DJ, UK. 
Tel: Intl +44 (0)1527 573 600. Toll Free from US: 1-866-545-5878. Fax: +44 (0)1527 577423.
Registered in England No: 4307068.
Get full access to all content, just $1 for 30 days
just-style gives you the widest apparel and textile market coverage.
But only paid just-style members have full, unlimited access to all our exclusive content - including 16 years of archives.
I am so confident you will love complete access to our content that today I can offer you 30 days access for $1.
It’s our best ever membership offer – just for you.