2016-01~02
http://www.newsfultoncounty.com/politics/news/0526801-chinese-governor-removed-from-posts-for-disloyalty

Chinese Governor Removed From Posts For ‘disloyalty’ | Fulton News
- Announcement by top disciplinary watchdog does not mention graft charges against Wei Hong, unlike previous cases amid anti-corruption drive
– Announcement by top disciplinary watchdog does not mention graft charges against Wei Hong, unlike previous cases amid anti-corruption drive

BEIJING – China’s top disciplinary watchdog has announced that the governor of southwestern Sichuan province has been removed from his posts for “disloyalty” to the country’s Communist Party.
The Shanghai Daily reported Friday that Wei Hong was also dismissed as vice Party chief of Sichuan for “serious violations of discipline”.
The Central Commission for Discipline Inspection revealed Thursday that an investigation into Wei, launched last month, had found him to be “disloyal and dishonest to the Party”.
State news agency Xinhua cited the agency as saying that Wei had disregarded opportunities to “rectify his wrongdoing” and seriously violated the party’s code of conduct.
He is also accused of trying to “subvert” the probe and refusing to confess, as well as interfering in with judicial activities.
Although the investigation into Wei was launched amid President Xi Jinping’s wide-reaching crackdown on corruption among officials, Thursday’s announcement did not mention graft charges, unlike in previous cases.
Since its launch in 2013, tens of thousands of suspects, including dozens of high-profile individuals at the top of the Communist Party of China, have been investigated under the drive.
Last month, former vice minister of public security Li Dongsheng and former political advisor Yang Gang were sentenced to 15- and 12-year jail terms, respectively, on bribery charges.
Yang, a former Party secretary in the capital of the troubled northwestern Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, was found guilty of accepting more than 13 million yuan (around $2 million) in bribes.
Li is reported to have taken bribes amounting to nearly 22 million Yuan ($3.3 million), and is understood to be an ally of ex-security tsar Zhou Yongkang, who was sentenced to life imprisonment in June on graft charges.
Chinese governor removed from posts for ‘disloyalty’ added by David Fisher on February 5, 2016View all posts by David Fisher →