2016-01~02
http://www.newsfultoncounty.com/world/news/1627701-update-uighur-suspects-deny-fatal-bangkok-bombing-charges

UPDATE – Uighur Suspects Deny Fatal Bangkok Bombing Charges | Fulton News
- Military court charges two men with 10 counts of criminal violation including terrorism, premeditated murder -- which carry death penalty
– Military court charges two men with 10 counts of criminal violation including terrorism, premeditated murder — which carry death penalty 

BANGKOK – Two Uighur men accused of carrying out a bombing in the Thai capital that killed 20 people last year denied all charges Tuesday at a military court.
The Bangkok court charged Adem Karadag and Yusufu Mieraili with ten counts of criminal violation each, including terrorism and premeditated murder — both of which carry the death penalty.
Both suspects maintained their innocence, with Karadag — formerly identified by Thai police as Adem Karadag and then as Bilal Turk — insisting that he had entered Thailand after the Aug. 17 bombing, which also left 120 people injured.
His lawyer Choochart Khanphai told reporters outside the courthouse, “my client since his arrest has never confessed to any charge”.
Choochart attempted to correct his previous statements in the immediate aftermath of Karadag’s arrest in September, which had accorded with those of authorities, who said his client had confessed to the crimes.
“My previous statements were given at a time when I had no access to my client,” he said Tuesday.
The lawyer also underlined that he had petitioned the court on Jan. 15 on the ground that his client said he had been tortured by plainclothes men while in military custody.
“My client was intimidated by these men, they were waterboarded, threatened with large dogs and threatened with deportation to China.”
Both Karadag and Mieraili have refused to provide their addresses in China’s northwestern Xinjiang region out of “fear of reprisal” from the government, who the Muslim Turkic minority group accuses of curtailing their cultural and religious rights.
UPDATE – Uighur suspects deny fatal Bangkok bombing charges added by Kristoff Saunders on February 16, 2016View all posts by Kristoff Saunders →