2016-01~02
https://www.iiss.org/en/iiss%20voices/blogsections/iiss-voices-2016-9143/january-671d/xi-visit-to-middle-east-0a48

Alexander Neill: Xi makes economic inroads in Middle East | IISS
This website uses cookies; in accordance with EU law descriptions of each cookie are provided.
During his first official tour of the Middle East this week, which includes visits to Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Iran, Chinese President Xi Jinping is reaping the benefits of a carefully honed Chinese foreign policy. While circumventing the deep divisions blighting the region, China is seeking to increase significantly its already growing economic footprint there. It is unlikely that Beijing will proclaim any new initiatives for Middle East security beyond broad calls for peace in the region. Behind the scenes however, Xi may attempt to make subtle inroads in terms of China’s military ties with all three countries.
China’s geostrategic gambit, the ‘One Belt, One Road’ (OBOR) initiative, took centre stage during his visit to Saudi Arabia, with local media describing the visit as a historic reminder of the links that have existed between China and Arabia over the course of two millennia.
Escorted into the Kingdom’s airspace by four Saudi fighter jets, China’s presidential flight was greeted on the tarmac by Deputy Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. Following talks with King Salman bin Abdulaziz al-Saud, China announced the elevation of bilateral ties to the level of a ‘comprehensive strategic partnership’. Xi also met with Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) chiefs who called for the early establishment of a China–GCC free-trade zone.
Behind closed doors, Xi may have consulted with Saudi experts on China’s new threat from Islamic extremism. Beijing is growing more concerned about the threat posed by Islamic State (also known as ISIS or ISIL) to Chinese interests. Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the group’s leader, has referred to China as a country that persecutes Muslims, and his imagined caliphate extends into China’s Xinjiang province. Meanwhile, a Turkestan Islamic Party unit of Uighur militants from Xinjiang is embedded with Jabhat al-Nusra in western Syria, potentially posing a threat to the Chinese regional presence and within China itself.
Xi left Saudi Arabia having signed a memorandum of understanding to pursue interconnectivity and joint development projects under the auspices of OBOR. Bilateral cooperation agreements were signed covering sectors including communications, energy and aerospace. Such deals follow the development of increasingly close trade relations. In 2013, China was the Kingdom’s biggest trading partner, and in 2014 two-way trade totalled US$69.1 billion. Saudi Arabia remains China’s largest foreign provider of crude oil.
The next stop on the tour was Cairo. China and Egypt upgraded their relations to a comprehensive strategic partnership one year ago, and this year they celebrate the 60th anniversary of diplomatic ties. The OBOR initiative was also likely to be high on the agenda in Cairo, especially since China is keen to develop transit hubs and trading zones in northern Egypt linking Africa to the OBOR network and to breathe life into the Egyptian economy with soft loans. At the other end of the Red Sea, with Chinese plans to establish a naval logistics base in Djibouti, Xi and President Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi were likely to explore further defence and security cooperation.
Whether China can continue to bridge the sectarian fissures across the Gulf while enjoying enhanced relations in both Riyadh and Tehran remains to be seen, but Xi’s arrival in Iran hot on the heels of the lifting of sanctions is fortuitous. Chinese businessmen and corporate leaders have long complained of the impediments to bilateral trade under the sanctions regime applied to Iran. Ostensibly, with the trade sluice gates opened and bolstered by OBOR connectivity, China and Iran will be moving into a new phase in bilateral relations. Again, behind the scenes, Xi may seek to encourage closer defence ties with Iran, in the wake of PLA Deputy Chief of Staff Admiral Sun Jianguo’s visit to Iran in October 2015.
Commentators have juxtaposed the unfettered ease with which Beijing is courting Middle Eastern countries against the chequered policies of the United States and its regional allies. Such observations have inevitably revived the debate over whether China is enacting its own ‘counter-pivot’ to West Asia in an attempt to challenge US regional influence.
Xi will most probably stick to China’s enduring policy of non-alignment, while arguing that Beijing’s contribution to Middle Eastern economic development through OBOR is the best bet for regional stability. China has traditionally remained detached from deep involvement in the security of the Middle East, while Washington has been frustrated by Beijing free-riding on American efforts to improve regional security.
By contrast, Chinese leaders maintain the position that US-led interventions in the region have only caused further instability, a view reported widely in the Chinese media. China’s special envoy for the region, Gong Xiaosheng, has consistently echoed the Chinese MFA’s view that the problems of the Middle East should be resolved by the people of the region. However, as Beijing’s leverage increases across the region and in light of immediate security concerns over Uighur Islamic militancy, China may not be able to distance itself from the region’s security woes as it has in the past.
The IISS Voices blog features timely comment and analysis on international affairs and security from IISS experts and guest writers.
A sober, in-depth look at Egypt's contested politics, institutional and political players, struggling economy, constant foreign policy and evolving security challenges.
Learn more about The International Institute for Strategic Studies and its activities.
Engage with the IISS and its experts involved in issues shaping today's global agenda.