2016-01~02
http://article.wn.com/view/2016/02/17/Judge_Apple_must_help_government_break_into_San_Bernardino_s/

Judge: Apple must help government break into San Bernardino shooter's iPhone - Worldnews.com

A California judge ruled that Apple must help federal investigators break into the iPhone of one of the San Bernardino shooters.The U.S. Attorney's Office believes the phone used by Syed Farook contains "relevant, critical ... data," but...

Get the top news stories delivered directly to your inbox!
(CNN)Tashfeen Malik advocated jihad in messages on social media, but her comments were made under a pseudonym and with strict privacy settings that did not allow people...
Washington (CNN)President Barack Obama said Saturday that it is "insane" that people who are not allowed to fly on planes are allowed to buy guns. "Right now, people on the...
(CNN)Authorities in San Bernardino, California, on Thursday released the names of the 14 people killed in the Wednesday mass shooting. "The Coroner Division completed their...
(CNN)Apple has responded to a California judge's order to help the FBI break into the phone of one of the San Bernardino shooters with a public letter saying it opposes...
(CNN)Apple has responded to a California judge's order to help the FBI break into the phone of one of the San Bernardino shooters with a public letter saying it opposes such a move, labeling the instruction "an overreach by the U.S. government." The letter, signed by Apple's CEO Tim Cook and published Tuesday, warns that complying with the order would entail building "a...
(CNN)On the day of the massacre of 14 people at a holiday party in San Bernardino, California, Tashfeen Malik pledged her allegiance to the leader of ISIS in a Facebook post, according to three U.S. officials familiar with the shootings. 29 photos: San Bernardino shooting 29 photos: San Bernardino shooting Police officers stand guard as they investigate a suspicious vehicle in...
(CNN)[Breaking news update, published at 1:01 p.m. ET] FBI investigators say they believe San Bernardino shooter Syed Rizwan Farook had ties to one of four Riverside, California, men who were charged in 2012 with planning to join al Qaeda in Afghanistan, two U.S. law enforcement officials said on condition of anonymity Thursday. The officials said Farook was in the social...
(CNN)The FBI declared a massacre in Southern California as an "act of terrorism" following details one of the shooters pledged loyalty to ISIS during the attack. Tashfeen Malik and her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook, burst into a holiday party for the environmental health department in San Bernardino on Wednesday and opened fire. They targeted Farook's co-workers, killing 14...
(CNN)Lt. Mike Madden is a dispatch supervisor -- not the kind of job that would ordinarily put a police officer in mortal danger or confront him with scenes of carnage. But on Wednesday the San Bernardino, California, officer found himself thrown into the aftermath of the largest mass shooting in America since the Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre nearly three years ago. He...
(CNN)ISIS militants described the two people who stormed a party in Southern California and shot 14 people to death as "supporters" of the terror group. The terrorists made the declaration on their official radio station Saturday, days after the Wednesday attack that also left 21 injured. Tashfeen Malik and her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook, burst into a holiday party for the...
Washington (CNN)President Barack Obama reiterated his call for more gun control reforms to make mass shootings in the U.S. "rare as opposed to normal" in the wake of a mass shooting in San Bernardino, California. Speaking to CBS News moments after news broke of the shooting, Obama called for "common sense gun safety laws" and urged lawmakers to pass a law to prevent individuals...
San Bernardino is a city located in the Riverside-San Bernardino metropolitan area (sometimes called the Inland Empire), and serves as the county seat of San Bernardino County, California, United States. As one of the Inland Empire's anchor cities, located 65 miles east of Los Angeles, San Bernardino spans 81 square miles (210 km2) on the floor of the San Bernardino Valley, and has a population of 209,924 as of the 2010 census. San Bernardino is the 17th largest city in California, and the 99th largest city in the United States.
The California State University, San Bernardino is located in the northeastern part of the city. The university also hosts the Coussoulis Arena. Other attractions in San Bernardino include the Fox Performing Arts Center, the McDonald's Museum, which is located in the original site of the world's first McDonald's (at 34°07′32″N 117°17′41″W﻿ / ﻿34.1255°N 117.2946°W﻿ / 34.1255; -117.2946), the California Theatre, the San Bernardino Mountains and The San Manuel Amphitheater, the largest outdoor amphitheater in the United States. In addition, the city is home to the Inland Empire 66ers of San Bernardino baseball team, they play their home games at San Manuel Stadium in downtown San Bernardino.