2016-01~02
http://www.juancole.com/2016/02/poll-most-americans-want-redistribution-of-wealth.html

Poll: Most Americans Want Redistribution Of Wealth
Cenk Uygur and John Iadarola | (The Young Turks Video Report) | – –
“Now that Bernie Sanders knows that people will show up and vote for him in large numbers, the attacks from the mainstream and right have begun. But it turns out that his ideas are incredibly popular. Cenk Uygur and John Iadarola (ThinkTank), hosts of the The Young Turks, break it down. . .
“Bernie Sanders wants a political revolution. And most Americans think one might be necessary, according to a new poll conducted by Morning Consult and Vox.
Fifty-four percent of respondents to our online poll — which reached a sample of 1,884 registered voters nationally from Friday, January 29, through Sunday, January 31, 2016 — agreed that a “political revolution might be necessary to redistribute money from the wealthiest Americans to the middle class.” Just 30 percent said they disagreed.
Liberals and liberal-leaning demographics were most likely to agree with the statement. But majorities of independents, white voters, evangelicals, and even Tea Party supporters in our sample agreed too — showing that redistribution may no longer be a dirty word in American politics.
Of course, keep in mind that responses to a poll statement in a vacuum may differ quite a bit from how people will feel after hearing political debate and messaging from both sides.”
The Young Turks: “Poll: Most Americans Want Redistribution Of Wealth”
Posted in Middle Class,Plutocracy | 11 Responses | Print |
@markhughes how about we JUST get our houses back our jobs back our businesses back and fair elections?
@cenkuygur If only the older peeps who only get info from corporate media could see the FACTS, we might really have a Revolution!!
Yes they do and we cannot survive as a nation without a strong middle class.
It’s not going to happen until after the revolution. Chris Hedges for president.
@cenkuygur there 4 amendments needing added; term limits for Congress & judiciary campaign finance & national tax that all pay
@cenkuygur been waiting for revolution for years @Walmart & other corporations have eliminated a chance at life liberty & happiness
It would help a lot if:
1. people weren’t so easily swayed by paid political ads
2. the poor voted in the same proportions as the affluent
Even if we got rid of representative democracy and voted directly on legislation these would be problems. Our society used to have social organizations like unions where the non-rich developed a sense of their political interests and elevated leaders to act on them. These have been undermined not just by conspiracy, but by the replacement of communities of shared economic interest with a sort of commoditization of residency, where housing is a free market cloud of suburban subdivisions surrounding a job center, connected by cars. People once were neighbors with their co-workers, with shared resentments against a specific tyrannical boss, often all of the same ethnicity and attending the same church. Even the small businessmen who serviced them might be on their side against the big boss because of their obvious interest in higher local wages.
Of course these communities could also be deeply conformist and oppressive.
First: the real question is what happens to entrepreneurs like Bill Gates and Elon Musk. This redistribution policy would have to discriminate somehow between those of the 1% who are productive in society and those who are not, lest we decrease productivity and ship productive companies overseas.
Second, Bernie’s rhetoric is far to the left of where it will be if/when he wins the primary.
Third, if Hillary Clinton wins the nomination, it’s game over for the Democrats, as the Republicans have been waiting to indict her to knock the Dems out of the race.
Thank you to all of my supporters for your generosity and your encouragement of an independent press! Checks to
 Juan ColeP. O. Box 4218Ann Arbor, MI48106-4218 (No Parcels Please)
