2016-01~02
http://www.australiannews.net/index.php/sid/239881985

Australian News - Interview: French Journalist Expelled by China a 'Brave, Professional' Reporter

Kadeer:? Ursula Gauthier performed her duty as an independent journalist uncovering and reporting on the actual situation of Uyghurs inside China--facts that had been hidden by the authorities during a time of world outrage and renewed determination to fight international terrorism because of the recent tragic events in Paris. I offer my sincere gratitude to Madam Gauthier for her professional reporting and bravery. At the same time, I would like to congratulate the people of France for having such a daughter.

RFA:? Madam Gauthier has consistently refused to offer an apology to the Chinese government for her reporting, and has insisted that it is China's unjust policies in Xinjiang that are the cause of violence in the region. What do you think has motivated her to be so strong in her stand?

Kadeer:? She has grown up in a free society that respects and values freedom, justice, and equality. And she has based her judgments on facts, not on the accounts offered by authorities. She has been aware of the tensions in the Uyghur region for many, many years, and has kept a close eye on the tragedies that the Uyghurs have endured under repressive Chinese policies.

RFA:? What about the Chinese claim that Madam Gauthier has "spread the seeds of hostility between ethnic groups in China"?

Kadeer:? Hostility between the ethnic groups in China--and especially between the Han Chinese and the Uyghurs--has had a long history, and significantly began right after China's military occupation of the Uyghur homeland in 1949. That hostility was present long before Ursula ever wrote about it. The seeds of hostility have not been spread by Ursula's pen, but by the Chinese government's brutal suppression.

RFA:? The Chinese newspaper the has launched a public opinion poll asking whether Ursula's permit to report from China should be extended. What do you think about this?

Kadeer:? First of all, I have to say that their intention is not sincere. But I will give them credit if they launch a poll asking the Chinese people if they would prefer continued one-party rule or a democratic, multiple-party system that offers real choice. I would also encourage the to extend its polling to ask the Uyghur people if they want to continue to live under Chinese rule. The knows very well that anyone who conducts such a poll will end up in a Chinese jail.

Copyright 1998-2014, RFA. Published with the permission of Radio Free Asia, 2025 M St. NW, Suite 300, Washington DC 20036
Sydney - Two pieces of debris found in Mozambique have arrived in Australia for experts to determine if they came from missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, an official says.
A huge search for the ...
Johannesburg -Three foundations have called on the ANC's National Executive Committee (NEC) to take decisive responsibility by implementing urgent "corrective" actions in the interests of all South ...
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Get the Sport24 daily newsletter delivered to your Inbox!
Melbourne - Formula One's existing safety measures saved Fernando Alonso's life in ...
Sydney - Environmental groups on Monday urged greater action on climate change after the Australian government declared the highest alert level over an epidemic of coral bleaching in the pristine ...
Indian Wells - World No 1 Novak Djokovic won the Indian Wells title on Sunday with a 6-2, 6-0 rout of a hobbled Milos Raonic, taking the crown for the third straight year and a record fifth time ...
Cape Town - South Africa may have to significantly restructure their team if JP Duminy is declared unfit for their key ICC World Twenty20 match against in-form West Indies at Nagpur on Friday (16:00 ...
Sydney - Australian authorities said on Sunday coral bleaching occurring in the World Heritage-listed Great Barrier Reef had become "severe", the highest alert level, as sea temperatures ...
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA--(Marketwired - Mar 21, 2016) - Adoption of people-based advertising in Australia is rising quickly as advertisers experience superior performance and return on ad spend from ...
Sydney, March 22 (IANS) Two people were arrested on Tuesday in Australia's New South Wales state for allegedly financing the Islamic State (IS) terror group. They were accused of being involved "in ...
Indian Wells (US), March 21 (IANS) Tennis World No.1 Novak Djokovic believes that male tennis players should earn more money than their female counterparts, considering the fact that more people ...
Canberra, March 21 (IANS) Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull on Monday announded the country will hold an early election in July if the Senate fails to pass laws aimed at curbing union ...
Canberra, March 20 (IANS) Queensland's political system is set for its biggest shake-up in the decades as a referendum for fixed four-year parliamentary terms looks likely to succeed. On Sunday, ...
Kuala Lumpur, March 20 (IANS) Malaysian officials said on Sunday that two pieces of suspected debris of the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 have arrived in Australia for verification. Both ...
Bengaluru, March 21 (IANS) Australia beat Bangladesh in the third match of the World Twenty20's Super 10 stage on Monday at the Chinnaswami Stadium, chasing down a 157 run target with three wickets ...
Bengaluru, March 21 (IANS) Bangladesh piled up a score of 156/5 in 20 overs against Australia in the group stage Super 10 match at the World Twenty20 here on Monday. Mahmudullah top scored with a ...
Melbourne, March 21 (IANS) Two-time Formula One world champion Fernando Alonso has admitted he is lucky to be alive after a high-speed crash that forced race officials to momentarily stop the ...
New Delhi, March 21 (IANS) Following his maiden win in the Indian Open last weekend, S.S.P. Chawrasia made a jump of 92 places to be 151st in the latest global golf rankings released on Monday. The ...
Melbourne, March 21 (IANS) Reigning Formula 1 champion Lewis Hamilton of team Mercedes said he is expecting a closer fight with team Ferrari in the forthcoming season and has downplayed the ...
Bengaluru, March 20 (IANS) Bangladesh coach Chandika Hathurusingha thinks Mushfiqur Rahim's mindset is getting in his way of returning to form. It has not been long since Mushfiqur was Bangladesh's ...
Bengaluru, March 20 (IANS) The International Cricket Council's (ICC) ban on bowlers Taskin Ahmed and Arafat Sunny for illegal actions in the middle of the World T20 campaign has diminished the ...
Australian News.Net's News Release Publishing Service provides a medium for circulating your organization's news.
Free-spirited Australia - a continent offering endless holiday experiences. Explore the colours of the outback, the excitement of the cities and a range of natural wonders you won't find anywhere else. The pearly sails of the Sydney Opera House, jutting out to jewel-blue water and over-reached by the intricate Sydney Harbour Bridge has made Sydney Harbour one of the world's most recognisable images.
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from the United Nations Security Council sanctions list after a Chinese request, a media report said ...
JAKARTA, Indonesia China and Indonesia were on Monday locked in a bitter diplomatic row after the Chinese Coast Guard allegedly recovered by force a fishing boat that was confiscated by the ...
WASHINGTON The United States is likely to give an interim relief to ZTE by temporarily easing trade sanctions slapped earlier this month against the Chinese telecom equipment and smartphone maker ...
BEIJING, China - At the China Development Forum 2016, the country’s central bank chief has warned of problems related to rising debt. Zhou Xiaochuan said in his statement that the country is ...
UNITED NATIONS – Four ships blacklisted for North Korean ties have been taken off from the United Nations Security Council sanctions list after a Chinese request, a media report said ...
BAMAKO, Mali – At least three unidentified gunmen opened fire in their attempt to force their entry into the European Union Training Mission (EUTM) headquarters in the capital of Mali, Bamako, ...
WASHINGTON - Bernie Sanders, lagging behind Hillary Clinton in the Democratic presidential race, scored a resounding win over his rival in the Democrats Abroad global primary. The group Democrats ...
LONDON – There are “clear downside risks” to the country if Britain left the European Union, ratings agency Moody’s said on Tuesday, warning that the exit from the bloc would also lead to ...
NEW YORK - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, which owns Bausch and Lomb, said on Monday it would begin a search to replace longtime chief executive Michael Pearson, and that billionaire ...
NEW YORK - Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Monday signed an amendment to its definitive merger agreement with Marriott International, Inc. after the latter raised its bid to around $13.6 ...
LONDON Technological and regulatory changes in UK is seeing an encouraging increase in the number of self employment in the country, but on the flip side the rising number of low-paid ...
© 1999 - 2016 Australian News.Net - Mainstream Media Ltd - (JI)