2016-01~02
http://uk.onlinenigeria.com/latest-additions/184794-prisoner-muhammad-bawazir-refused-to-leave-guantanamo-bay.html

Prisoner Muhammad Bawazir Refused To Leave Guantanamo Bay - UK Nigeria Online
A Guantanamo Bay prisoner who protested his indefinite confinement with a lengthy hunger strike has taken the unusual step of turning down a chance to finally leave the U.S. base in Cuba, rejecting an offer to be resettled in an unfamiliar new country.
Muhammad Bawazir, a 35-year-old from Yemen, refused to board a plane as two other prisoners were being flown out for resettlement in the Balkans, his lawyer, John Chandler, said Thursday. 
Since returning to his homeland was not an option, he insisted on being sent to a country where he has family.
Chandler said he spent months trying to persuade Bawazir to accept the resettlement in another country he declined to name. 
But the prisoner, who was 21 when captured in Afghanistan, apparently decided at the last minute he couldn't do it.
'It's a country I'd go to in a heartbeat,' the Atlanta-based attorney said. 'I can't help you with the logic of his position. It's just a very emotional reaction from a man who has been locked up for 14 years. '
Several prisoners over the years have resisted returning to their own countries, fearing they might be imprisoned and tortured. 
Some ethnic Uighurs held for years at Guantanamo once spurned a resettlement officer in the Pacific island nation of Palau because it seemed too close to China, the country they said they fled because of intense persecution.
Still, the decision by Bawazir is unusual. Yemeni prisoners at Guantanamo, who can't be sent to their homeland because of the civil war there, have been described by officials and lawyers as eager for any way out of the prison.
Bawazir, who protested his indefinite confinement with a lengthy hunger strike, has taken the unusual step of turning down a chance to finally leave the U.S., rejecting an offer to be resettled in an unfamiliar new country
The 35-year-old from Yemen refused to board a plane as two other prisoners were being flown out for resettlement in the Balkans, his lawyer, John Chandler, said Thursday
'The rest of the guys there, if I had offered them the opportunity to go they would have said 'show me the plane,' said Chandler, who has three clients at Guantanamo after two others went to the United Arab Emirates for resettlement.
The two prisoner releases announced Thursday brought to 16 the total to leave in January as President Barack Obama works to whittle down the number of low-level detainees as he seeks to close the detention center on the base and move the remainder of the men to the U.S.
The two who left included Tariq al-Sawah, an Egyptian who was a relatively well-known prisoner. He was sent to Bosnia, where he has family and once served in the army.
El-Sawah had admitted being an explosives trainer for al-Qaida and at one point faced charges of conspiracy and providing material support for terrorism. The government withdrew the charges and decided not to pursue new ones for reasons that have not been made public. 
He was kept in a special housing unit away from other prisoners and had reportedly cooperated with authorities. Several former commanders wrote letters on his behalf urging his release.
While in captivity, the prisoner's weight ballooned to more than 400 pounds. At one point, his lawyers feared that he might not survive Guantanamo because of his multiple medical conditions, including his morbid obesity and diabetes.
The other was Abd al-Aziz al-Suwaydi, who went to Montenegro, which his lawyer, David Remes, described as an ideal country for the prisoner.
'He has a Western sensibility. He is open and friendly and looks European. When people pass him in the street, they will not even notice him,' Remes said.
Since returning to his homeland was not an option, he insisted on being sent to a country where he has family. Chandler said he spent months trying to persuade Bawazir to accept the resettlement in another country he declined to name
 There are 91 people who are still in the prison, which holds suspected enemy combatants with links to al-Qaida and the Taliban
Their release brings the total Guantanamo population to 91, the lowest it's been since shortly after it opened in January 2002 to hold suspected enemy combatants with links to al-Qaida and the Taliban. They include about 35 who are cleared for transfer, most of whom are from Yemen.
The Pentagon said Thursday that another detainee had been added to this list: Mustafa al-Shamiri, who had previously been classified as an al-Qaida courier or facilitator based on apparently faulty intelligence. The government said he was in reality a low-level jihadist and could be transferred out of Guantanamo.
Bawazir had been cleared for release in 2008 under President George W. Bush but he was caught up with the rest by the U.S. refusal to send prisoners to Yemen for fear that some might again pose a security risk to the U.S. 
For several years he protested his confinement with a hunger strike, dropping to 90 pounds at one point. He was force-fed to keep him alive.
The prisoner has family in the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Indonesia but the U.S. was apparently unable to secure the diplomatic agreement to settle him in any of those places. 
Chandler said that the human rights group Reprieve had offered to help him start a new life in the new country and the State Department said it would help his family visit.
'He's very frightened of going to a place where he has no assured support,' he said.
The lawyer said Bawazir may have become institutionalized in Guantanamo, comparing him to the character 'Brooks' in the prison movie 'The Shawshank Redemption' who commits suicide shortly after his release.
'He's always been very emotional,' Chandler said. 'When he was a hunger striker he told me 'All I want to do is die.' He just couldn't stand the place.'
President Barack Obama is working to whittle down the number of low-level detainees as he seeks to close the detention center on the base and move the remainder of the men to the U.S.

 Several people have been killed and many more injured after a suspected terrorist attack at Brussels airport this morning.
Two loud explosions reportedly shook the building ...
 
 
 Full story 


 SHOCKING pictures of the treatment of mentally ill people have emerged after Human Rights Watch uncovered details of the vile abuse of vulnerable adults and ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Five people including at least two children have been killed and a baby girl is in hospital after a car they were in slipped from ...
 
 
 Full story 


 A man with spinal muscular atrophy is refusing to let his disability stop him from travelling the world, even if it means becoming a “human ...
 
 
 Full story 


 David Cameron personally blames George Osborne for the crisis engulfing the Conservative party , says reports.
Following the shock resignation of Iain Duncan Smith late on ...
 
 
 Full story 


 President Obama “should “butt out” of the EU referendum, Nigel Farage has said.
The president is expected to use a visit to London next week to ...
 
 
 Full story 


 There is an “overwhelming need” to overhaul the way universities deal with sexual violence on campus, a government-backed taskforce has said.
Many institutions currently rely on ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Design students from Goldsmiths University have made an art project showing what tampons would look like if they were actually luxury items.
Magdalene Welch, an 18-year-old ...
 
 
 Full story 


 It comes after George Osborne announced in the Budget that employers would have to contribute more to pensions for NHS staff, teachers and the police.
He ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Education Secretary Nicky Morgan described the plan as a "suggestion" and said it was "under consultation".
But sources close to Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan ...
 
 
 Full story 


 The Office of Rail and Road (ORR) said that 80% of passengers do not claim compensation.
It wants clearer forms, a national publicity campaign, and better ...
 
 
 Full story 


 THE Government has been defeated in the Lords as peers voted to allow 3,000 unaccompanied child refugees into the country.
Unelected peers voted to amend the ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Simon Bailey, the top officer in charge of child protection, last night revealed there were 70,000 investigations in 2015.
He added: "The average cost of each ...
 
 
 Full story 


 A man sneaked into a woman’s chalet at Pontins and raped her after discovering her drink had been spiked.
Michael Jackson, 31, left his victim "absolutely ...
 
 
 Full story 


 A headteacher was banned from the classroom after spending more than £100,000 of school money on holidays abroad and hi-tech gadgets.
Colin Coleman blew £15,000 on ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Chancellor George Osborne is to defend his handling of the economy ahead of a Commons vote to approve his Budget.
He will confirm he has dropped ...
 
 
 Full story 


 Two explosions have been heard at Brussels Airport, it was claimed this morning. 

More to follow 

Two explosions have been heard at Brussels Airport, it was claimed ...
 
 


 Experts have found that a crash diet could reverse Type 2 diabetes  Findings described as a ‘paradigm shift’ in the understanding of diabetesGrowing body of ...
 
 


 Albert Proud was denied bail a second time after being chargedHe applied for bail to attend a rehab facility run by a religious organisationProud was ...
 
 


 Paige Doherty reported missing after vanishing on way to her Saturday jobMother Pamela Munro had posted on social media she was 'worried sick'The 15-year-old had been ...
 
 


 Kiel and Emma Moore-Jone bought a new family home in  WaikanaeNeighbours advised them to use a drug-testing kit on the propertyIt tested positive to meth ...
 
 
