2016-01~02
http://www.memri.org/report/en/0/0/0/0/0/0/9009.htm

Jihad and Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM) Weekend Summary
The following are some of this week's reports from the
MEMRI Jihad and Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM) Project, which translates and
analyzes content from sources monitored around the clock, among them the most
important jihadi websites and blogs. (To view these reports in full, you must be
a paying member of the JTTM; for membership information, send an email to [email protected] with "Membership" in the subject line.)
Note
to media and government: For a full copy of these reports, send an email with
the title of the report in the subject line to [email protected]. Please include your name, title, and organization in your
email.
EXCLUSIVE:
Jihadi 'Help Desk,' Tech Channels On Telegram And Twitter Offer Tech Support,
Tutorials, Up-To-Date Cyber Security Info
Jihadis are enjoying, it appears, the services of a
technical "help desk" on the secure messaging app Telegram and on
Twitter. The help desk is part of a larger network that caters to jihadis'
technical needs, and includes channels and accounts on those platforms and on a
forum dedicated to technical matters as well.   
In the last year jihadis have intensified their effort to
provide their counterparts with technical know-how on a variety of topics such
as mobile phone security, and cyber security-related information in general.
The information has generally focused on raising jihadis' cyber security
knowledge and awareness with regard to their operations online. Most recently,
these efforts have culminated in the establishment of the Electronic Horizon
Foundation (EHF), a joint effort of several entities like Tiqani Al-Dawla Al-Islamiyya (the "Islamic
State Technician") and the Information Security channel, a top
disseminator of cyber security information, and a technical channel on
Telegram, respectively. One of the EHF's top goals is to hamper electronic
surveillance of the mujahideen by Western intelligence services.
EXCLUSIVE:
Selfies And Salafis: Instagram Use Among Jihadis And Their Supporters
Instagram, the online mobile photo- and video-sharing app,
is a popular platform for jihadis fighting in Syria, as well as for their
sympathizers, for propagating the message of the Islamic State (ISIS),
Al-Qaeda, and other jihadi groups. It is one of the host of social media
platforms that jihadis are adept at using, and by means of which they leave
their indelible mark online. Instagram appears to be used by jihadis
mainly to chronicle life on the battlefield, or for public, and private
one-on-one communications. Fighters appear to use it for small talk or as an
initial point of contact before moving on to other, encrypted platforms such as
Surespot or Telegram.
EXCLUSIVE:
ISIS In Libya To Egyptians: Rise Up Against Al-Sisi, Burn The Slaves Of The
Cross, Terrorize The Jews
On February 7, 2016, the information office for the Islamic
State (ISIS) in Tripoli province, Libya published a 13-minute video titled "Your
[Nonviolent Protest] – Whose Religion Does It Belong To?!" 
Top Islamic State (ISIS) propagandist "Turjiman
Al-Asawirti" has launched a channel on the encrypted messaging app
Telegram. The account, opened in February 10, already has over 1,100 members.
On February 9, 2016, the Islamic State (ISIS) in Raqqa
Province published a series of photos from an event held by its preaching
bureau for the city's remaining Christians, in which they were called to
convert to Islam. The photos were titled "The Preaching Bureau – Inviting
the People of Dhimma to
Islam"; the date of the event was not given. It should be mentioned that
shortly after it took over the city of Raqqa, ISIS signed a dhimma pact with the city's
Christians, forcing them to pay a poll tax.
On February 8, 2016, The Islamic State (ISIS) distributed a
new nashid (song) in French
which glorifies martyrdom for the sake of Allah. The song, produced by ISIS's
Al-Hayat Media Center, was distributed through Twitter and Telegram and
hosted mainly on Archive.org. The following are its lyrics and some details
about it.
Titled "Out of Love," the song is styled as the
final statement of a fighter who is about to die out of love for Allah and
attain the rewards of the martyr in Paradise.
In
Video Showing Execution Of Spies, ISIS Threatens David Cameron: 'Today We're
Going To Kill Your Spies The Same Way They Helped You Kill Our Brothers'
On February 10, 2016, the Islamic State (ISIS) in Al-Raqqa
province released an 8-minute video titled "They Are The Enemy So Beware
Of Them - 4" (a reference to Koran 63:4). This is the fourth video in a
series depicting the confessions and executions of spy cells by ISIS.
The current video documents the execution of three men
accused of spying on and targeting ISIS members in Al-Raqqa.
Issue
8 Of ISIS' French Magazine 'Dar Al-Islam' Presents Religious Justification For
Paris Attacks, Threatens More Terror To Come
On February 7, 2016, Al-Hayat, the media company of the
Islamic State (ISIS), released the eighth issue of the organization's
French-language magazine Dar
Al-Islam, which is concerned mostly with the November 13 attacks in Paris.
The issue, 114 pages long, was distributed via jihadi forums (e.g., Shumoukh
Sl-Islam) as well as Twitter and Telegram accounts, and hosted mainly
on Archive.org. The following is a brief overview of it; more comprehensive
reports are pending.
Former
Gitmo Detainee Ibrahim Al-Qusi Extols Prisoners Executed In Saudi Arabia, Calls
On Muslims To Join AQAP
On February 8, 2016, Al-Malahem, the media arm of Al-Qaeda
in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), published an audio statement in which Ibrahim
Al-Qusi, a Sudanese national and former Guantanamo Bay detainee who joined the
group last year, praised the 43 prisoners recently executed in Saudi Arabia,
and extolled them for taking part in the fight against the U.S. presence in the
Arabian Peninsula. In the statement, which was posted on leading
Al-Qaeda-affiliated jihadi forum Al-Fida', Al-Qusi stressed the importance of
Saudi Arabia to Al-Qaeda, condemned the ruling family's alliance with the U.S.,
and called on Muslims living there to rebel against them and join and support
the mujahideen.
AQAP Factions Clash Over Leadership Following Death Of Senior Commander Hamza Al-Zinjbari
On February 11, 2016, Yemeni activists and newspapers reported that two factions of Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) have clashed over the group's leadership of Abyan province, following the February 4, 2016 death of senior commander Jalal Bal'idi, aka Hamza Al-Zinjbari, in an airstrike.
On February 10, 2016, Abu-Israa' a member of the jihadi
forum Al-Fida' posted the saga of the journey made by Malek and his companions,
a group of Uyghurs who left Turkestan for Syria to join the fighting there
apparently in the ranks of a TIP (Turkestan Islamic Party) offshoot in Syria
fighting alongside Jabhat Al-Nusra.
Indian
Newspaper Profiles Nine Indian Nationals Who Established ISIS Branch In India
Following are excerpts
from a report profiling nine Indian nationals who established a branch of the
Islamic State (ISIS) in India by journalist Rahul Tripathi of The
Economic Times daily:
In 2014, 26 Indian youths posed for a group photograph in ISIS t-shirts in
Tamil Nadu state
"He is described as the 'head of finance' at Islamic
State-inspired Janood-ul-Khalifa-al-Hind. Nafees... was working as a salesman
at a tile shop in [the southern Indian city of] Hyderabad on a monthly salary
of Rs. 11,000. He hails from Mumbai's Nalasopara [area] and came to Hyderabad
in 2012 in search of a job. His primary education was at a Telugu
[language-learning] camp and later did Islamic studies at a madrassa for four
years."