2016-01~02
http://www.scmp.com/news/china/policies-politics/article/1908838/chinese-court-cuts-jail-terms-11-xinjiang-prisoners

Chinese court cuts jail terms for 11 Xinjiang prisoners convicted of terror, separatist offences | South China Morning Post
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Rare decision by region’s highest court meant to send a message of leniency for remorseful extremists who warn off others, analysts say
To forward this article using your default email client (e.g. Outlook), click here.
Authorities have cut the jail terms of 11 Uygur prisoners serving time in Xinjiang for separatism and endangering state security, Xinhua reported late Tuesday.
One of the prisoners, Memet Tohti Memet Rozi, was accused of having close contact with the separatist East Turkestan Islamic Movement and the Taliban. He also set up terrorist training camps in Afghanistan, according to Xinhua.
The Xinjiang Higher People’s Court cut the life sentences of seven of the offenders to terms of 19½ years or 20 years in jail. Four others, who were jailed for 15, 13 and eight years respectively, each had their sentences cut by six months. One prisoner was also released.
The report did not say when the prisoners were originally convicted and jailed. It also did not identify all the prisoners, saying only that some were key members of a separatist organisation or leaders of a terrorist group.
One was Huseyin Celil. Celil, who joined the East Turkestan Islamic Movement and the East Turkestan Liberation Organisation, reportedly apologised for his crimes, saying he “brought irreparable damage” to his country, hometown and family.
Celil fled China and was granted Canadian citizenship in November 2005. He was detained in Uzbekistan in 2006 and extradited to China, where he was eventually sentenced to life in prison for endangering state security and organising a terrorist organisation in 2007, according to the Dui Hua Foundation.
Specialists on the western region said the decision sent a message to extremists that leniency would be granted if they generally showed remorse and warned others away from extremism.
The report detail why the sentences were cut, but said there had been moves to curb radicalism in jails, and it quoted two of the prisoners as expressing remorse for their actions. Religious academics were invited to prison, persuading some “stubborn” key heads to let go off extreme religious thoughts, the report said.
“I could not hold back my tears when I learned of my [reduced sentence],” Memet Tohti Memet Rozi was quoted as saying. “I’ve now split with all separatists and terrorists and will strive to become a law-abiding citizen.”
Pan Zhiping, a professor at Xinjiang University’s Central Asia Research Centre, said the reduced sentences not only sent an important message to separatists and their families but also played a vital role in countering radicalisation from within.
As part of the region’s campaign against extremism, convicts who genuinely showed remorse, such as Memet Tohti Memet Rozi, have spoken publicly on how they were misled into extreme religion. “The impact of these personal testimonials was big,” Pan said.
Professor Yang Shu, from Lanzhou University in Gansu province, said there had been sporadic instances of reviewing jail terms for extremism, but never on this scale and involving prisoners convicted of such serious crimes, at the same time.
World Uygur Congress spokesman Dilxat Raxit said news of the commutations was a “political propaganda tool” to cover up the government’s use of the term extremist to repress the Uygur people. “Be aware that China is using the so-called commutations to mislead the international community and continues to use anti-terrorism to step up its repression,” he said.