2016-01~02
http://www.sott.net/article/310139-Wannabe-Sultan-Erdogan-and-the-Dark-Side-of-the-Late-Ottoman-Empire

Wannabe Sultan Erdoğan and the Dark Side of the Late Ottoman Empire -- Puppet Masters -- Sott.net
Thanks for summing up all these points about Erdogan and Turkey. The mainstream press in the EU don't touch on these subjects. And instead of restraining Turkey, the EU is actively supporting Turkey, both with money and military and political support.
Thank you for exposing these crimes and the agenda of this "great" EU alley.
Gaby if Erdogan ever ends up on your operating table can you please ...2nd thoughts call me & I'll do the operation personally..
No experience on my part but as he doesn't have a hear I cant be arrested for murder.
I would be surprised if Edrogan has a pumping heart. Even Cheney's heart ran away from him... Some emergency humor here, at minute 2.40
Sorry meant to be. as he doesn't have a HEART I can't be arrested for murder.

In a typical Western fashion (many Western revolutionaries fought for the liberation of the Greeks but didn't give a shit about the Bulgarians) the author ignores the existence of other people under the Turkish domination on the Balkans. It seems to be more heroic to fight for the resurrection of Ancient Greece or Byzantium, than mere 7 million Bulgarians isn't it?
Note "among others" in the article: "set out to exterminate different non-Turkish groups: Assyrians, Armenians, Greeks, and Kurds, among others." If the author were to cite every group that suffered under Turkish rule, this article would turn very long. Just because a certain group is not mentioned, doesn't mean that it is being ignored or thought of as insignificant.
Yes Batak was one amongst many, thank you for rembering it. Children were also regularly snatched to fill the janissary's corpus. In fact the Greeks had the most priveleges amongst Christians.
Gaby Thanks for the reply. Sorry I cant get onto your link here in OZZ..so the laugh will have to wait until I find it.
Nearly 2am & it's time for zzzzzzzzzzzzzz
What an evil man. The only people that can support this human gar*#ge have to be racists & past glory fascists
"Erdo the gun" just got "hit". 10 dead from an attack in Constantinople.
Those were Germans, so it was probably and Erdogan 'hit' (or a hit by those that really run Turkey) pathetically dressed up as as "suicide bombing". These people really begin to bore me with their flagrant nonsense.
Somebody explain to me how Turkey got to be, and is still, a NATO country.
I've looked all over the n-e-w-s for more information; but of course...nada.
I guess there are those in the organization that simply 'allow' the status quo, thinking it will be easy enough to take Erdogan out when the situation arises.
Bless the folks trying to have normal lives who are stuck in the middle of all that.
The reason Turkey was admitted to NATO was so that the USA could deploy nuclear-tipped missiles in Turkey, targeted on the then-Soviet Union. Also, Turkey's strategic position straddling the Dardanelles, the exit from the Black Sea, put it in a position to bottle up the Soviet Black Sea Fleet, as well as to deny access to the Mediterranean to (former) Soviet Republics Romania, Bulgaria, Georgia, and Ukraine. We tend to forget how important geography is in the geopolitical game. For example, Iran is in the same position in the Persian Gulf as Turkey is in the Black Sea, which is the reason the USA has made some sort of deal with it, disregarding the strident howls of rage coming from Israel and the US Jewish constituency. It would be quite impossible for the US to prevent Iran from closing the Strait of Hormuz. This reality has forced the US to come to terms with Iran.
In the democracy of the dead all men at last are equal. There is neither rank nor station nor prerogative in the republic of the grave.
eagles will pretty much attack anything in the sky, maybe military drones are tasering them in mid air?
Coming Bombshell Revelation Will Drive Gold & Silver Dramatically Higher – Rob Kirby [Link]
Real life comedy: The Donald & Hilary Show... staring guest plonkers from - the BAnk for InTerNational Settlements... penny both ways...
Reader comments do not necessarily reflect the views of the volunteers, editors, and directors of SOTT.net or the Quantum Future Group.
Remember, we need your help to collect information on what is going on in your part of the world! Send your article suggestions to:
Some icons appearing on this site were created by: Afterglow, Aha-Soft, AntialiasFactory, artdesigner.lv, Artura, DailyOverview, Dellustrations, Everaldo, GraphicsFuel, IconDrawer, IconFactory, Iconka, IconShock, Icons-Land, i-love-icons, KDE-look.org, Klukeart, Mayosoft, mugenb16, NicolasMollet, PetshopBoxStudio, VisualPharm, VistaICO, wbeiruti, WebIconset, YellowIcon

Original content © 2002-2016 by Sott.net/Signs of the Times. See: FAIR USE NOTICE